ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Take your seats, please. [[Rumors]] We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u2	Thank you, President. Mr. Sanchez, eliminating the crime of sedition and reducing misappropriation has left you fatal. It has not approved us with any European country, it has unprotected the state - as the Supreme Court has unanimously ruled - and, moreover, it has failed to satisfy even its independent partners. On the other hand, yesterday three months of the first sentence reduction was served to a sex offender for the application of his law alone is yes, a chaff that unprotects women and minors and that you remain unsolved. The Spanish continue to amaze the open war within their own government, while you parapet behind the Minister of Justice. His policy today is as far away from the reality of people as those videos that are recorded with the socialist figures, while Spanish young people are finding it more difficult to find a job and access a home every day. Mr. Sánchez, why do you always hide behind your ministers? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you ask me the same thing as last week and I answer you the same thing as last week. Here I am, giving my face. I am the President of the Government who has appeared most often in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate, for the misfortune of his leader. [[Applauds]] And I answer you the same as last week, Your Honor. We know who we are defending, we are defending the social majority of this country. Just yesterday, the Council of Ministers helped a little more than 2200 000 workers who are going to receive the minimum inter-professional wage of EUR 1080 per month. [[Applauds]] And you, what did you do? [[Applauds]] The PRESIDENT: Mrs Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u5	Yes, Mr. Sánchez, you answer me the same as last week, but it is that just a week ago there were 415 sex offenders who had benefited from your law and today, at least, there are 520 -105 more in just seven days, one of them the rapist of the portal in Lugo - and you do absolutely nothing. Their emergencies have nothing to do with the Spanish's emergencies. So hasty to eliminate the crime of sedition and to unprotect the State and so much parsimony to mitigate the most pernicious effects of its law of self is yes! [[Applauds]] Their political priorities are portrayed by their laws. In December, while the penalties for sexual abusers were already accumulating, you were on to something else, you were eliminating the crime of sedition to content your independence partners. It took less than five weeks, but it's been four months lost with the law of the only one. You come here every Wednesday, use your speaking time to attack the People's Party and reject the hand stretched out to try to fix the problems that you yourself cause and that Spanish society suffers. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: No!-Rumors]] If you wish, next Thursday, 23rd, we will bring to this plenary your rectification. [[Applauds]] Mr. Sanchez, to protect...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u6	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, we govern for most of this country. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: No!-Rumors]] We govern for the majority of this country and that is our priority: to govern for the people on foot; not like you, who defend the elites you serve. [[Laughs and protests]] You laugh, ladies and gentlemen. Look, this is a government that has passed a law on equal pay and yesterday there was a report, which was published by the Workers' Commissions, which said that it had reduced the wage gap between men and women to historical minimums, and you voted against that law, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] You have voted against the revaluation of pensions under the CPI. Not only have they voted against the approval of a tax on the big energy entities, the big financial entities and the big fortunes of this country, but also yesterday we knew that the autonomous government of Madrid and also the Autonomous Government of Andalusia have appealed to the Constitutional Court this tax on the big fortunes, Your Honor. Your Honor, while this government does what it does is to strengthen the National Health System with EUR 1 billion for primary care in 2022 and 2023, you do what you do is to cut and divert to private health many of the patients in the territories where you govern. [[Applauds]] Not only that, Your Honor, but you insult to the faces of health professionals who took part last Sunday in the streets of Madrid. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, you're right about one thing. We can be wrong and, when there is a mistake, we strive to solve that problem. [[Laughs and protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u8	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u9	You, on the other hand, never make a mistake, you're always with the ones upstairs. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED MR. MIRIAM NOGUERAS I CAMERO, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES THE SPANISH GOVERNMENT CREATE THAT THERE IS A BIG POWER IN THE INSTITUTIONS OF THE STATE? [[File number 180/001152]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u10	Question by Mrs Miriam Nogueras i Camero from the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u11	Thank you. Some of us have very clearly that a pact with the Spanish State, a pact with you, Mr Sánchez, is absolutely useless. And why do we ask if there is abuse of power in the Spanish institutions? We do it because you legislate ad hominem, that is, with names and surnames. I ask you: have you legislated with the ultimate aim of facilitating the extradition of President Puigdemont and will it turn out that Marchena is his deputy 120 and that the Kingdom of Spain has three Chambers: Congress, Senate and Supreme? Were your Esquerra partners aware of your intention to facilitate the extradition of President Puigdemont? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u12	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, you've detected some tension between you and the Republican Left. [[Rumors]] Allow me this sarcasm to answer the following, Your Honor. Last week The Economist said that Spanish democracy is a full democracy; we went up the steps of democratic quality - you reproached us precisely last year, when you lowered that rating - and pointed out that we are not yet a fuller democracy than others precisely because of the blockade of the People's Party on the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary and its constitutional failure. [[Rumors]] Therefore, Your Honor, what I can tell you, first of all, is that democracy in Spain, with its imperfections, is a full democracy, as they say and attest to it, international benchmarks; and secondly, that neither you, Your Honor, nor your party believe that Spain is not a democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u14	Mrs. Nogueras.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u15	Don't worry so much about Esquerra and us, he should be more concerned about the tension within his Government. You haven't answered all this, Mr. Sánchez, so I'll repeat the question. We know that you have legislated with the aim of facilitating the extradition of President Puigdemont, in fact, you and your ministers have bragged about it. That's why we want to know if their Esquerra partners were aware of it. As you think about the answer, I'm going to list the violation of rights and abuse of power that you and your own make. Abuse of power, Mr Sánchez, is what the Spanish State systematically does, governs who rules. Abuse of power is to promise the extradition of President Puigdemont over and over again. Abuse of power is your 'who does it depend on?'. Abuse of power is the new persecution of the 9N; it is the catalangate, it is not investigating the catalangate. To sell systematically commissions of inquiry in Congress, such as that of the king or of the attacks of August 17 in Barcelona and Cambrils, is also abuse of power. Abuse of power is Pegasus. Abuse of power is the investigating court 13 and 18. Abuse of power is the expoliation of more than EUR 20 billion to all Catalans. Failure to respect the outcome of the polls in Catalonia is also abuse of power. Abuse of power is... [[pronounce words in Catalan]] Abuse of power is the state's sewers. Abuse of power is Josep Borrell. Abuse of power is Melilla and its opacity. Abuse of power is 155. The abuse of power is to keep your king on the run. Abuse of power, Mr. Sánchez, is to allow you here to speak fascist... [[pronounce words in Catalan]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Nogueras. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Anyway, what's clear is that he doesn't know what an abuse of power is. [[Laughter]] Anyway, Your Honor, I'll tell you what. Since we arrived at the government we have tried to build coexistence in Catalonia and clearly today the situation in Catalonia has nothing to do with the situation of 2017, although some, as you, of course, yearn for it. This Government has done what it has done is to launch a dialogue table between the two Governments. What this Government has done has been to reactivate the bilateral commission between the Government of Spain and the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, precisely to convey many of the investments that were still pending when we arrived four years ago. We have launched the Joint Committee on Transfers between the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain, and we have approved budgets which I believe have also been positive for Catalonia, not only in reactivating the Mediterranean corridor, but also in protecting families and households in Catalonia from a pandemic and now from the economic effects of the Putin war in Ukraine. Your Honor, it has nothing to do with the situation today in Catalonia with which we had in 2017 and, if there is anything worse, it is independence. Yesterday, a former President of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Mr Mas, was saying this, and that is something that would have to make you and your party think back into useful politics and not continue in the anti-policy in which you have settled that so little benefit is being given to your party and so little is helping Catalan society. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: ARE YOU Satisfied with THE DECISIONS OF YOUR GOVERNMENT? [[File number 180/001151]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u18	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u19	Mr Sánchez, are you satisfied with the actions of your Government to solve the main problems of citizens? In case you just tell me yes, which one is more particularly satisfied with?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u20	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u21	Thank you very much, Madam President. Satisfaction is never full, Your Honor, but today we have just learned of inflation data and the intermonthly, Your Honor, is going down, and food prices are also going down thanks, among other things, to the policies that you are implementing... [[Señor Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: What is going down?- Rumors!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u23	Yes, Your Honor, the intermonthly is coming down. Look at it, food prices are falling and so is the inter-monthly rate of inflation. That also has to do with the policies we are implementing from the Spanish Government. The satisfaction is not full, but I think it is important to have raised the minimum inter-professional wage to EUR 1080 per month and also to have revalued pensions under the CPI. What is strange to me is that you are satisfied that you have voted against, for example, revaluing pensions under the CPI. Perhaps in your reply you can respond and rectify this political position. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u24	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u25	This is a government control session. I just want to tell you that the law of yes is yes has been a problem and that it is incredible that you have not yet ceased Minister Montero. But I also want to talk to you about one of the main concerns of the Spaniards, although you have not even mentioned it, which is health. You probably tell me about an autonomous community, which is the Community of Madrid, and, yes, Madrid has a very serious health problem, we know that. Look, these are yesterday's data. [[Show a document]] He quotes for the pediatrician in a health center, the Spronceda, for sixteen days. Shame on you! But do you know what's going on? [[Show another document]] Catalonia: appointment for primary care within fourteen days. [[Rumors.-Shows another document]] In Toledo, Castile-La Mancha, an average of one hundred and thirty days for a consultation with the gynaecologist. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u27	And the same could be said of Galicia, Navarre, the Valencian Community or any other. Yes, this is the reality of most Spaniards, not that of the PSOE charges that appear in their videos; they're going to end up giving him the Goya for those fake videos he makes. [[Laughter]] But in the face of this health situation, what does the Government have to say? Yesterday the minister said that the lack of doctors was not within her competence and, if anything, you say that the problem is only for communities where they do not rule. Do you really believe that a Spaniard cares what the political color of his autonomous community is when he has a health problem? [[Several Members: Yes, yes!-Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u28	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u29	In view of this very serious situation, the Government has to take letters on the matter and, if you are concerned about the health of the Spaniards, to re-centralise the competences that are necessary to ensure a good health service throughout Spain. [[Several Members: Aaah!-Rumores]] Yes, yes, so that families have access to a pediatrician in a reasonable time, of course; so that there is no better treatment for cancer in one autonomous community than in another, of course; so that there is no mass exodus of doctors, of course. It does not mean that the autonomous communities cannot also have competences in health, it means that you have to exercise your own. For his Government this is irrelevant, and the best proof of this is that we have not had health ministers, we have had candidates campaigning with the money of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Probably one of the things that would help to strengthen public health in many of those territories is to have progressive governments and not the governments that you supported, for example, in the Madrid Community or the Andalusian Junta. [[Laughter and applause]] What this government has done without competence - because we have no competence, Your Honor - is to invest EUR 1 billion in 2022 and 2023 in primary care. [[Rumors]] What this government did nothing further was to suppress the pharmaceutical co-sponsors that the People's Party approved for the elderly in this country. [[Applauds]] What this Government has done, ladies and gentlemen, has been to put EUR 800 million for the purchase of high-tech equipment that will help healthcare professionals to perform their work and reduce waiting lists. Ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to public health, free and universal, not like those governments that you have supported in many territories of our country. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u32	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u33	But, in any case, Your Honor, I have to give you my personal opinion on the situation of your party. [[Mrs. Arrimadas García: About healing, right?-Rumors]] I am very sorry that you ended up as you ended up, because there were many people who believed in you, who believed that you were going to bring regeneration and political renewal to our country, that you were going to contribute to economic growth combined with social justice. What does not deserve any of those people who have placed their trust in your party is that you have turned your voice into an alibi of the far right and, much less, the sad echo of the far right. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: HOW DOES THE SPANISH FAMILY HAVE VALUED THE MOST DONE FROM THE OECD'S AVAILABLE INCOME FROM 2019? [[File number 180/001154]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u34	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sánchez, less giving lessons to others and more responding to yes is yes. Don't hide and face it. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]] Madam Vice President, how's the shopping basket going? Because I'm sorry to tell you that others see the most expensive prices. You keep looking at them cheaper. Your Honor, can you illustrate to us where you buy and thus give us the opportunity for 47 million Spaniards to have their optimism? Because what we're seeing is that prices are still very expensive. The shopping basket is fired, the underlying inflation has just risen half a point and, Your Honor, the gas bills...! It's all absolutely fired. Prices are in the clouds. It's all out of control because your government is out of control too, ladies and gentlemen. Your Government is already a problem for Spain, Your Honor, because a government that legislates to unprotect the State, as justice has just ruled, what kind of confidence will it generate? What kind of trust can generate a government that legislates to put sex offenders on the street and does nothing and does not respond, Your Honor? What kind of confidence is going to generate a government that makes up the numbers of jobs, rules and legislates at the stroke of ideology, which does not recognize the reality that Spanish families are going through? [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, applying the theories of the economist and Nobel Prize winner Richard Thaler, you would be pushing the Spanish economy into the abyss. And it's now official, ladies and gentlemen: according to OECD disposable income data, Spanish families are the ones who lose the most income. This is serious and we would like you to fix it and I would like you to comment on it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u36	Madam Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u37	Thank you, President. Each week, the difficulty they have in finding a statistic, taking it out of context, torturing it and trying to keep saying that everything is wrong is more clear. [[Rumors]] And this week is particularly difficult, because this week the European Commission has revised the growth forecasts for the euro area and, in particular, for Spain, saying that it will be the country that will grow the most among the major economies of the euro area. This week, the CPI data show that the measures we have put in place are working. The general CPI and the underlying CPI fell in January compared to December, and food prices in particular, which we have reduced, are falling. [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: But if you go up!-Rumors]] Yes, Your Honor. In addition, we have put in place measures precisely to strengthen the incomes of families, the most important of which is job creation. We have a record of job creation, we have a record of social security affiliates, historical minimums of unemployment, youth unemployment, temporaryity, improving not only the quantity but also the quality of employment. And also by raising wages, this week we raise the interprofessional minimum wage to 1080 euros. Mr President, I agree that we must continue to raise the wages of all workers in this country, but on the part of the Government we have taken steps and have taken very clear steps to improve the incomes of families. For example, by raising pensions, improving the conditions of those most vulnerable with minimum living income, improving non-contributory pensions and easing the accounts of families with free public transport. Do you know what's best for improving family incomes? Continue to have a responsible Government with a balanced economic policy and improving and protecting the welfare state. Just the opposite of what you do, Your Honor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u38	Mr. Rojas.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u39	Your Honor, don't solve the mystery, we still don't know where you buy it. [[Laughter]] Which country do you live in, Your Honor? No one buys cheaper, inflation is not short-term, the effects of COVID have been very significant; quite contrary to what you said, Your Honor. Nor do they deny data that are OECD. Your Honor, denying, making up, lying and confronting are verbs that you know how to conjugate to perfection, but that do not solve the problems of the Spaniards. The latest OECD report is very clear. The income of Spanish families is lower when you rule, ladies and gentlemen; less for savings, less for consumption. It says the report that we're at the head of unemployment and low income. These are the results of your Government's policies, ladies and gentlemen. There you are, it's OECD data you can't deny! Your Honor, do you know what happens when someone stays alone in their triumphalism like you? That you have already been defeated by the facts, Your Honor, that you have already been defeated. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u40	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u41	Thank you, President. Your Honor, if I sin anything, it's always prudence. [[Rumors]] Triumphalism? We have never denied the difficulties we have been facing since 2020, first with the pandemic, then with a volcano, now with war and inflation. But this is a responsible government that gives confidence and makes decisions defending the interests of the majority of Spaniards. Your Honor, what interests do you defend? - OF THE DEVELOPED WOMAN IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE VICESTEEN FIRST AND MINISTRY OF ECONOMIC MATTERS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: SHARE THAT THE ENTERPRISES ARE USER, CODE AND AVAILABLE AS THE MINISTRY BELARRA SAID? [[Applauds]] [[File number 180/001160]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u42	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, Spain is a great country with its weaknesses, threats, strengths and opportunities. Undoubtedly, among the strengths of this country are its workers, its self-employed, its merchants, its small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, its large enterprises as well, those that generate employment. And, no doubt, among the great weaknesses and threats of this country are some rulers who have rarely shared a single day of their life in the private sector, who have rarely undertaken anything. When you look at this same government you only see politician, official, politician, politician, official, politician, official, politician, official - even though you were one day in a law firm - politician,... and we don't follow... [[successively points to the members of the Government]] [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] The big problem with this, Minister, is that you do not know the private sector in depth; you do not know the private sector you attack and, on top of that, you really mismanage the public. You are managing the public by reaching record numbers that have never been known: with record of unemployment, despite the traps you and your Minister of Labour make considering the fixed discontinuous ones as inactive, when they are really stopped; with 2.7 million public employees, record absolute of hiring of the public sector - that is how you tackle the numbers of unemployment -; with record absolute of collection, even though the Minister of Finance said that would never raise taxes; with record absolute of inflation - minister, I don't know where you buy, but in the rest of Spain prices have risen 15,4 % in the shopping basket as of year, figures this morning -, and with the greatest fall of disposable income from the West, minister. And perhaps the most insulting thing is that you squander public resources and then attack the private sector, which is the productive sector that drives this country forward, the sector that generates employment, the sector that generates wealth, the sector that pays taxes, the sector that contributes to social security, the sector that makes you then be able to squander your money and, above all, attack the productive sectors. [[protests]] [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u44	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u45	They have attacked them all: Pedro Sánchez to the entrepreneurs, calling them entrepreneurs with pureness who are in cenacles making all kinds of conspiracy against you; Yolanda Díaz, saying that farmers make people work in slavery mode; Mrs Ribera, attacking the industry, especially that of the car and let's not say the electrics; Mr. Garzón, attacking tourism, livestock... You're a mess! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u46	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u47	Thank you very much, President. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, I will start with what we totally agree on: Spain is a great country. Moreover, those who make Spain a great country are its citizens, the workers and the entrepreneurs. That is why we in the Government have focused on protecting the productive fabric, investing and supporting its transformation and modernization into a green and digital key, and with a reindustrialization programme that will allow us to continue to move forward and move forward towards the future. From here we are in total disagreement, starting with the tone you use to talk about officials. Because the officials are those heroes of the EMU who are currently saving children, saving lives, rescuing in Turkey. [[Applauds]] Officials are those nurses and doctors who are saving lives and protecting and defending our public health; they are the teachers who every day in public schools in this country help to have a better future for the younger generations; they are all public administration officials who are solving, helping and supporting the most vulnerable, who are the most in need of the public sector. It is all that makes us strong, ladies and gentlemen, that welfare state which we from the Government defend. Which state do you defend?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u48	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u49	Thank you, Madam President. The big difference, Minister, is that we do not attack officials, but you do attack the private sector! [[Protests]] Minister Belarus has called them usurers, greedy and greedy. And the question is: Do you condemn these statements by your cabinet partner and the President of the Government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u50	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u51	Thank you, President. I see, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, that he has risen in a bad mood and that the question has not been properly prepared. [[Laughter]] Because, if this government has done anything since 2018, it has just been carrying out an economic policy - and I say it week after week - based on fiscal responsibility, social justice and structural reforms that supports precisely the productive fabric of the entrepreneurs of our country, and not only the big companies, but especially the SMEs of this country and the self-employed, who are the heart of the Spanish economy. Only in this way can we be seen to have an economic policy that is already bearing fruit. Two years of GDP growth of 5.5%, record levels of membership and occupation in our country, a closing of the gender gap, historical minimums of youth unemployment and unemployment, an improvement of the inter-professional minimum wage of almost 50% since 2018, an improvement in working conditions and job stability; in short, opportunities for all of us and especially for younger generations. Your Honor, this is a government that has made it clear that it is not words, but facts. It supports entrepreneurs in this country. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON OSKAR MATUTE GARCIA DE JALON, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DOES THE CODE OF GOOD PRACTICES KNOW AN EFFECTIVE AID INSTRUMENT? [[File number 180/001159]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u52	Question by Mr Oskar Matute García de Jalón, MEP Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, it is well known that since April 2022 interest rates, which affect both variable income loans, have only risen from 0% to 3%; using the terminology of the European Central Bank, 300 basis points - and there are already those who tell us that by June it will be half more point, and we will be talking about 3.5% in those loans. On many occasions since then we have urged him to do, we have asked him to do things to anticipate the problem, which would affect at least one million households. Finally, on 22 November, he passed a royal decree law, and at that time he said: I trust that all entities will be added because it is time to grab the shoulder and help the citizens. After more than two months, is the code of good banking practice an effective instrument?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u54	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u55	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mr Matute, because you always ask questions about issues that I think are fundamental, such as the financial inclusion of Spanish citizens. [[protests]] Indeed, we have spoken on numerous occasions about how the protection of the most vulnerable citizens should be strengthened. A year ago, we adopted that code of good practice to improve the treatment of older persons, persons with disabilities, the most vulnerable. In September a new agreement was signed to bring financial services in physical terms to each and every one of the peoples of Spain. We recently reached that agreement, that code of good practice, to which virtually the entire banking sector has subscribed precisely to alleviate the situation of families affected by the rapid rise in interest rates. We have adopted measures as important as the free exchange of a variable-rate mortgage at a fixed rate or the early amortisation of loans. The first time we talked about it I pointed out to you that, fortunately, the mortgage credit conditions in our country had been improving and that, therefore, the risk was lower than we would have had in decades past. However, we are following very closely how these codes of good practice are being implemented, and on 9 March I will have a meeting with citizens' and financial sector representatives to see how these measures are being implemented and whether we need to take additional ones. What I would ask you to do, Your Honor - and from here I also publicly urge all parliamentary groups - is to speed up the processing of the bill to create the financial client's defence authority, because precisely this new authority will have among its functions to monitor compliance with the codes of good practice, and I do not think that we can play the game with those who want this bill to get stuck in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u56	Mr. Matute.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u57	Thank you very much, President. I am pleased to welcome the questions you have asked, but I believe that citizens would welcome more than if, in addition to bringing important issues, we brought solutions to their problems. You have pointed out that most banking entities have adhered to the code of good banking practice, and that is true, there are more than 54 banking entities, which accumulate more than 97% of mortgage loans. But what is the incidence? We have to be honest, we have to be honest and say it like that. When there are more than a million mortgages subject to variable income and only a thousand people have come to this possibility that grants the code of good banking practice, when we talk about 0.1% of the potential beneficiaries it is that the measure is being rachytic, because no one will deny that if all those people who are subjected to these mortgage increases of more than 200 euros per month do not come to these realities it is not for lack of will, it is not because the reality does not squeeze him. Therefore, we can talk about an insufficient and limited measure, because it leaves many people out. Probably, temporarily, on a temporary basis, it leaves out most people, even - look - those people who care about the middle classes, about the middle working classes - or middle working classes, someone says -, that is, even those people stay out of the short-term character, because the measures that are required, the demands that arise, leave them out of any possibility of help. Sincerely, Madam Vice-President, we believe that it is up to us to take action, because, while we do not, the banks continue to delay the process of returning the payment of unfair terms, which is still in Europe by turning the court in court; they continue to make a lot of money with everyone's money, because they do not pay the interests they do receive, and they continue to accumulate record profits. Honestly, at Euskal Herria Bildu we think it's time to take...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Matute. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u59	Thank you, President. As I have pointed out, Mr Matute, we have anticipated a possible risk. I think we have done the right thing by laying down measures in the face of a possible difficult situation as soon as we saw that interest rates were accelerating. We have to follow up precisely, and for that we have that meeting on 9 March, and the Government will take the measures that we think are most appropriate, but always, Mr Matute, trying to maximize the positive impact and avoid negative side effects, as in this case it could be generating financial instability. I believe that for the moment we are doing well, and we will continue to act with determination, thinking, above all, of the welfare of the Spanish families, that for that, Your Honor, we govern. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE MR MARIO GARCÍES SANAGUSTÍN, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND CHAIRPERSON: DO YOU HAVE THE DATA OF THE DISCONTINUOUS FIELDS THAT ARE NOT WORKING? [[File number 180/001155]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u60	Questions to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mr Mario Garcés Sanagustín, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. You are all a big mistake, the biggest mistake in the democratic history of this country. By the way, Mr Sánchez, when you make a mistake, you don't bother to correct it, you crave to keep it. That's the reality. The first Vice-President of the Government is unable to measure the basket of the purchase of the Spaniards in that imaginary supermarket where she practices all her purchases. The Minister of Transport is unable to put the trains in that useless tunnel where negligence has now been installed; by the way, with the clamorous silence of Barbón and Revilla. And of course, Minister Irene Montero is unable to correct her mistakes and tell only one truth. I will give you a fact, Madam Vice President: since the famous law of the only one has been passed, every five hours the penalty has been reduced to a pederast, the penalty has been reduced to a rapist. And, by the way, you're co-responsible. You know why? Because you are part of this decadent left, which considers that criminal sanctions should be lowered to sexual predators. [[Applauds]] And also statistics, because for you they constitute the collective art of confusion and simulation. The statistics on the unemployed in Spain do not record the actual unemployed in our country. Most analysts believe that, if we record the fixed discontinuities that are not working, there would be more than 600,000 unemployed, which they are not considering today. That's the reality. We already know that his labour reform was merely a statistical reform. Answer us, Madam Vice-President: How many fixed non-discontinuous are not working in this country? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u62	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u63	Mr Garcés, the Government of Spain computes the fixed discontinuities in the same way as the Rajoy Government of which you were a party. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u64	Mr. Garcés.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u65	The silence of the lambs - with the permission of Mrs.Belara - is how you constantly respond. Look, you don't create your data the European Union, you don't create your data the USO union. [[Protests]] We are the country with the highest unemployment rate in the whole of the European Union, we are the country with the highest youth unemployment rate in the whole of the European Union, we are the second country with the highest unemployment rate in the whole of the European Union thanks to the feminist policies of its entire government. You began as the minister of the account, became the vice president of the data; you have run out of account, no data, no Beiras and no political party: the most absolute political nothingness. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u66	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u67	Your Honor, you have noticed that you are too interested in fixed discontinuities; I see that. Mr. Garcés, I assume you're a lawyer, and you're a serious person. For thirty-eight years now, when an order was issued in 1985, the fixed discontinuous figures are calculated in the same way in Spain. Moreover, as you know very well, unless you are distorting reality, they are registered in the autonomous communities. Would you suggest that Mr. Moreno Bonilla is making up the data in Andalusia? You want to tell us this here, Mr. Garcés? [[Applauds]] You're a lawyer, and I'm telling you to look at the sentences of the Spanish courts - over three thousand, I've taken the trouble to look at them. Do you know what they say about fixed discontinuities? Re Pass it, he's a lawyer. Each and every one of them has an indefinite employment relationship. Therefore, Your Honor, you came to think that yours is ignorance or bad faith. [[Applauds]] And I'm going to brag to him in bad faith this time. But what really bothers them is what is happening with labor reform. Do you know what his model was, that of the PP before the reform to address the seasonal character in Spain? Workers use and pull, in agriculture, in tourism, yes, with contracts of less than seven days. And today this in Spain has changed, today we do have indefinite relationships. And I'm going to give you, Mr. Garcés, to you and the People's Party: Do you know how many people are busy in Spain? $20.5 million. Do you know how many are fixed discontinuous? They do not reach 3 %. It's a drop in an ocean, Mr. Garcés. The important thing is that these people in seasonal activities today have life expectancy. And I'm done, Your Honor. I would ask the People's Party to do something useful for its country: withdraw the recourse they have brought to labour reform in the Constitution. Be on the side of the people, because I am sure, Mr Garcés, that many of your sons and daughters today are indefinite thanks to the labour reform of this government and the social partners. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY INES MARIA CAÑIZARES PACHECO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, WHO FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF THE SECOND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY: WHY HAVE THE SECOND AND EIGHT OF THE FIRST YEAR OF IMPLEMENTATION OF THEIR WORK REFORM INCREASED? [[File number 180/001161]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u68	Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u69	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, I will repeat this to you systematically in all control sessions: policies are measured not by their intentions, but by their results, although they try to manipulate them. In the first year of implementation of its Fake labour reform, according to data published by the Ministry of Social Security, redundancies have increased by 68% compared to the previous year. Tell us why - let's see who's going to blame and point out now -. Only with VOX is there hope, as has been demonstrated in Castile and León, where recruitments go up... [[protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u70	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u71	... and lower unemployment to 8.8%, unlike, for example, Castile-La Mancha, where socialism has ruled for forty years and unemployment is 14.4%, i.e. double. And going back to the layoffs, it's that you, lying, accuse others of wanting the layoffs free. However, with its labour reform, what it is getting and promoting is not free dismissal, it is free and compulsory dismissal, because it is forcing companies to hire indefinitely when they need temporary jobs. And what do you do to extinguish those contracts? They seek alternative ways, such as disciplinary dismissal or dismissal for not exceeding the probationary period, which, as you well know, do not provide compensation for workers. Is that why they call you public salesmen? [[Protests]] Yes, all this is what you do, instead of encouraging stable employment. Moreover, where you have to attend to your officials, you have them abandoned; and you have them at the door of a strike, which is not going to be fixed discontinuous but indefinite. Look, if you don't want it to smoke, you put taxes on tobacco. If you don't want him to drink, tax the alcohol. If you don't want it to work, raise taxes to work. [[Applauds]] The slight rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, which will hardly be noticed in the pocket by real workers - not those of Mr Sánchez's fake interview - will cost small and self-employed businesses 40% more. And I give you advice on mathematics to progress: if you lower taxes on work, you will raise wages and increase employment; you have broadened the base: more workers with better wages paying less taxes. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u72	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u73	Your Honor, I'm also going to give you some data. In Spain we have 17 million employees, a historical figure, and 14.3 of them are indefinite employees. And I'm going to give you another piece of information, so you can understand the math. Look, after the labor reform we have an indefinite contract increase of 232% - so that you understand that the thing goes from when you are little, you have to Barrio Sesamo and know how to add and subtract -. And since I see you don't know that and that's why you don't understand the statistics, I'm going to talk to you about the layoff, about your program about the layoff; yes, about the VOX. [[applause]] Do you know what VOX proposes for the dismissal of Spanish and Spanish people? Shave even more. And not only that, it's that in your program you tell us that you want to eliminate jurisdictional control of layoffs. I say to you, Your Honor, that this is unconstitutional, that you are rebels before the Spanish Constitution and that this proposal is indefensible. But we also know you by voting: you have voted against dismissal for medical reasons - you want people to work sick - you have voted against the law of riding, you have voted against the laws of equal pay in Spain, you have voted against the domestic workers, you have voted against the labour reform, you have voted against everything that is positive for the workers of our country. And, look, Your Honor, they don't just come to us with this, but now we know them also in Castile and Leon. The misconception! It is you who disrupt the social dialogue. They have suppressed the SERLA, which, Your Honor, is not for the Government of Spain, it serves - I have been there with entrepreneurs and workers - thousands of companies and workers in that autonomous community. And since you're talking about firing me, it seems that you're not only talking, but you're also practicing something that's fundamental, and that's that you're firing people, because the first victims are those people who are working on SERLA today and that thanks to you they're going to go out on the street, and without compensation. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u74	Mrs. Cañizares.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u75	You don't know anything about our party. And, at least, we have a game. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u76	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u77	Your Honor, I would ask you for seriousness and respect for this House. [[Protests]] And, above all, I would ask you to be serious about people's problems. We are talking about workers' rights, nothing more and nothing less than the dismissal, which you want to reduce. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF César Sánchez Perez, of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which forms the Vice-President of the Third and Minister for ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION and DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: Does the Government of Spain envisage applying a moratorium to delay THE APPLICATION OF THE NON-RELIABLE PLASTIC TAX, IN ORDER NOT TO PENALIZE CONSUMER AND FACILITAR AGAIN ACCESS TO BASIC FOODS? [[File number 180/001156]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u78	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr César Sánchez Pérez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Díaz, I'm going to give you a data too. Being next to people is reforming the law of the self is yes. And you can bring him in next Thursday with our support. Why don't you do it, Mrs. Díaz? [[Applauds]] Explain it in this House. Mrs Ribera, today we come to talk about the plastic tax. Have you wondered why we are the only country in the European Union that is going to implement this tax? Have you wondered why Germany or France, for example, do not set it in motion? Do they have no environmental sensitivity? What they have is social sensitivity, which is what you and your Government lack. You never have enough. The Spaniards are paying the most expensive mortgage, three hundred euros more than average, and nothing happens. That we pay for the most expensive gas in our history? It's okay. That the self-employed cannot pay for the light, while we fund the light of the French? It's okay. What has to happen in Spain, Mrs Ribera? Who do you rule for? Are you laughing at the Spaniards? You, who presume to tax the rich, now put a tax on those who go to the supermarket. Who do you rule for, Mrs Ribera? Do you intend to suspend this tax that is increasing the price of food in our country? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u80	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u81	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question, which I believe helps us to focus some important issues, for example the one-use plastic, because there are other Member States of the European Union that have directly opted for its ban. Here we have opted for a measure that facilitates a progressive reduction of single-use plastics, which should indeed disappear; a measure incorporated in the waste and circular economy law, in which the parties agreed to delay its entry into operation for nine months from the scheduled date and in which you abstained in the vote. So, given the circumstances, I take it you didn't feel too bad. I want to clarify three more things. The first is that, at the request of the companies, the Ministry of Finance has granted six additional months in order to be able to make it easier to settle a tax that has been in force since 1 January. Therefore, it is not a question of requesting an extension, an extension or a new moratorium. Spain is well below the OECD and EU average in terms of green taxes in relation to GDP: 2.4 on average and 1.8 in the Spanish case. But it is that this tax is so subtle, so discreet that the rate that is paid for a bottle of litre and a half typical of any drink is 0.0135 euros, that is, just over a cent per bottle of litre and a half, a difference that is covered extra when you buy the cold bottle or time bottle or when you change from supermarket or neighborhood. If this is so, it seems to me that what worries you is not the consumers. In fact, if you are concerned about consumers, you are concerned about much more important things, such as the financing of public health in the autonomous communities in which they govern, or even the possibility of launching a balloon probe on privatizing the health services of the Andalusian Junta, paying 150 euros for the first visit in primary care. So, tell me, what are the interests you defend? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u82	Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u83	Mrs Ribera, listening to you shows that you are the most insensitive minister of your Government; and that has merit. This is the tax on the packaging of yogurts, the packaging of milk, rice, the film with which fruit and vegetables are wrapped. This is the tax that will most harm domestic economies and families going to the supermarket. [[Applauds]] Madam Vice-President, do you think that we are concerned about the destruction of more than 2400 companies in our country, according to industry, and more than 24,000 jobs in Spain is not adequate? You're an insensitive minister. He has been demonstrating this throughout the legislature: he has been insensitive to farmers, insensitive to farmers, insensitive to rural Spain, insensitive to economies on our coasts, insensitive now to families going to the supermarket. Madam Vice-President, you are still in time: ask forgiveness, rectify; do so out of sensitivity with all the Spaniards who go to the supermarket. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u84	Thank you very much. Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u85	I see that it is very difficult to appeal to your sensitivity, which is a little distorted. I told you before that the impact on prices for a consumer is practically zero. Precisely, this is a measure to gradually boost the search for other alternatives, which is... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Idoia SAGASTIZABAL UNZETABARRENETXEA, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHIC CHALLENGE: WHAT ARE THE REASONS FOR WHICH THE GOVERNMENT, AND IN CONCERNING THE MINISTRY OF THE GOVERNMENT, IS BLOCKING OPERATIONS IN THE EXTRANJER TO INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISES LIKE TUBACEX? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/001150]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u87	Question by Mrs Idoia Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u88	Last Thursday we recorded a question about the reasons why the government was blocking operations abroad to industrial companies and, in particular, to the Basque company Tubacex, to which the state's endorsement through CESCE was denied. Of course, if the objective is to re-industrialise Europe, we will hardly achieve this by cutting the funding or coverage that CESCE offers to these types of companies. They do so on the basis of an initiative signed by Spain, Export Finance for Future, which limits financial support to exports for oil and gas projects. But this initiative, Vice-President, has been weakened in the current context and is leaving companies the door open for countries to choose the fossil fuels to which this limitation affects and to report on the credit support issued. In addition, there are countries that have even taken a much more flexible approach to gas as a transitional energy and supply assurance in the context of the Ukraine war. However, it draws attention here to the introduction of this standard without a period of adaptation, without hearing and with retroactive effects, because it is affecting operations that are prior to this regulation, when they also had favourable reports from CESCE; that gas production be included in this ban at the same level as the fossil fuel process in this context and that support for a transitional energy be eliminated when it is included in the European green taxonomy. In short, it is surprising that the coverage of international upstream operations is closed, that our industry is not facilitated to supply elements or equipment that are used for exploration or production, and yet the supply of gas with long-term contracts and third countries is ensured, which de facto implies explicit support precisely for those exploration and production activities - that is, in third countries - and indirectly it is promoted that foreign industries, and not local ones, do these projects. Madam Vice-President, in the specific case of Tubacex and following the recording of our question, which I take it, a solution has been found and, of course, we thank you, but the fundamental problem is still there. Industry is committed to transition, diversifying its production to other sectors, but while this process is being carried out, it is necessary that such operations can be carried out precisely in order to have economic resources so that they can decarbonize and, of course, diversify. That is why it is necessary to make this regulation more flexible, to allow this type of operation, as Germany is doing, not only to ensure supply but also to enable the industry to make safe decisions and adapt, as thousands of jobs depend on it.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u89	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u90	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question, which has to do primarily with the strategies of the public export credit agencies, something that is the responsibility of my partner, excellent Minister of Commerce and next mayor of the city of Madrid... [[Laughs.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u91	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u92	... something that is linked to compliance with the Paris Agreement and the climate change law, because the climate emergency, the need to guide investment not only happens here and outside but not just in one sector and not in another. Therefore, from the point of view of the management, the coherence of financial flows and the security of investments and the guarantees that the State commits, the commitment of this agency, CESCE, has been to incorporate a strategy of progressive reduction of activity linked to fossil fuels with flexibility, as you say; with flexibility linked to energy security. That is why it supports operations that guarantee supply in Europe and, however, it is much more restrictive with regard to operations involving fossil fuels in areas where there is no danger with regard to energy security. I believe that this is essential, and you supported it in the climate change law, and, as I say, it is reflected in a strategy in which CESCE itself promotes a reduction of up to 75% of its fossil fuel-related operations by the year 2035, which is important and which links not only new operations, but also the creation of new coverage figures; a specific policy, which can be described as a green investment policy which also helps to position our industry abroad or to export goods and services from our country, but also the endorsement, guarantee with regard to the procurement of energy, electricity for medium- and long-term electricity-intensive enterprises. As you very well say, with flexibility, but in line with what France, Sweden, Denmark or Germany itself have done, to which you referred. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u93	Mrs. Sagastizabal.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u94	Thank you, Vice President. The truth is that we know that Germany is carrying out this initiative through its scholarships and enabling projects...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u96	As I say, a common line in all public export credit agencies that is being consolidated in Europe, much more advanced and progressive in some Member States and more cautious in others, as in the German case. But these exceptions are linked, as I said earlier, to security of supply at a special time, not to the reduction or elimination of the objectives pursued by this coherent action. Decarbonize through all the... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u97	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA BELEN VÁZQUEZ BLANCO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP IN THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: DOES YOU THINK TO DIE AFTER YOUR REPROBATION BY THE CONGRESS? [[File number 180/001158]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u98	Question addressed to the Minister of the Interior. Question by Mrs Ana Belén Vázquez Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u99	Thank you, Madam President. PSOE and Podemos veto Montoro: 'We do not sit with a reproved minister'. If you like, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, we pause, change seats and move away from Mr Marlaska. [[Applauds]] But if this does not convince them, the secretary of organization, Ábalos, has pointed out, with regard to the effect that it has a reprobation, that if Montoro does not resign or dismiss him, it will be an indication of the moral decline of the government. I mean, all of you squabble. [[Rumors]] But if this does not yet convince them, the absentee, Mr Sánchez, assured that when a minister is repudiated by Parliament he must resign and his resignation must be demanded from the President of the Government. Sánchez, June 27, 2017. Are you going to resign? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u100	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u101	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Vazquez, I will tell you very clearly: no. And he gladly accepted whether it's for defending the Civil Guard's performance, as it is in this case. [[Rumors.-Mr. Mariscal Anaya makes negative signs]] And respecting, as can be no less, the votes, all the votes of this House, which represent popular sovereignty, I will continue to defend the actions of the men and women of the Civil Guard who act in parameters of legality and proportionality, something that distinguishes us from you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u102	Mrs. Vazquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u103	That Mr Sánchez is a liar, he knows all about Spain, and that he Sánchez of 2017 would never vote for the Sánchez of 2023. But you today, Mr Marlaska, are a failed and failed minister. He is a minister who has long since resigned his credibility. Your credibility resigned with your unwarranted cessations and all those dark episodes in which you were involved. You're responsible... [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Excuse me, it's just that with the noise you're making, Madam President, it's impossible.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u104	Quiet, please. Go on, Mrs. Vazquez. [[A Member of Parliament: Time! - Let's give it up.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u105	Mr. Minister, the only one responsible for lying was you, and you don't want to go to the Civil Guard anymore. You're the only one guilty of leaving the civilian guards that day in Melilla in front of an avalanche of 2,000 people. You are solely responsible for not providing the means in Ceuta and Melilla while watering millions to Morocco. You, Mr. Marlaska, are a person who does not respect his best subordinates. Ceases colonels for defending the Civil Guard, ceases prison directors for defending prison officials, ceases anyone who dares to bring the opposite to him. You are only applauded today by those who violate the law and by ETA prisoners. What an inheritance you have! It is now going to repeal the law on citizen security to leave the Civil Guard and the police unprotected and thrown away. Mr. Marlaska, listen to Sánchez and resign today. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u106	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Vazquez, you have to have a lot of courage to tell me about ceses and ETA. But I will tell you that you built a lie-based reprobation, and I will remind you only one - I am saying quotes -: 'It is very serious that wounded and killed are hidden in national territory, that aid and care are denied to those who are dying in our country and that Moroccan gendarmes are allowed to enter Spain to take the wounded and the dead'. I close quotes. These words, accusing the Civil Guard of serious crimes, you wrote them to Mr Esteban González Pons, and their falsehood has been found after a thorough investigation by the Attorney General's Office, which you do not speak of. The BBC itself - the report to which you have referred - has also rectified in relevant elements and you make no reference. Therefore, it is a reprobation based on those falsehoods. What you have done, uniquely and exclusively, is build a lie and discredit the Civil Guard to simply try to wear down a minister, and you have not succeeded. But well, let's get something good, I think you can get something good out of that both you, the cowardly right, according to VOX, that is, the PP and VOX, have been able to unite your votes with Esquerra and some other group that supports the government from time to time. Let's get something good out of it. Let's see if they unite those same vows so that we can continue to increase the number of places of the state security forces and bodies, so that we can continue to increase their salaries and invest in personal and material means, also in infrastructure, because to this day they have not done so. On the other hand, this minister and this government, the state security forces and bodies will be reminded of that. Finally, I say to you: you have been able, by four votes, to discredit the Civil Guard, as you have always done. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY Mrs. CAROLINA TELECHEA I LOZANO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: DOES THE GOVERNMENT THINK THE DEMOCRATIC MEMORY LAW IN THE LAST LEGISLATION? [[File number 180/001149]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u108	Question to the Minister for the Presidency: Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mrs Carolina Telechea i Lozano, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u109	Thank you, President. Does the Government intend to deploy the Democratic Memory Act in what is left of the legislature?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u110	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Telechea, please excuse me for listening to many questions in this monitoring session today, but I have not heard a question that interests Spanish women very much, a question that needs to be asked to the People's Party and Mr Feijóo. Is abortion a right of Spanish women? Yes or no? [[Protests and rumors.-Various Members: Incredible!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u112	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u113	Does the People's Party and Mr Feijóo live in Spain and in the Europe of 2023 or does he want to turn 50 years back on women's rights? [[Rumors and Protests]] And one last question, also for Mr Feijoo: Who marks Mr Feijoo's political position? Again the most ultras elements of the Spanish right? [[Rumors and protests continue.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u114	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u115	Mrs Telechea, of course we are going to deploy the law of memory, we are going to do it in this legislature and in the next. [[Rumors]] We will continue to make public policies in defence of truth, justice, reparation and the guarantee of non-repetition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u116	Mrs. Telechea.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u117	Thank you, President. Minister, it is very well that the PP recriminates the law of abortion, but do not try to agree with them in the law of yes is yes. [[Applauds]] So, Minister, I'm going to my own, to what I asked you. You said the new memory law would better protect the memory of the victims of the Civil War and Francoism. But why did they authorize a tribute to the Blue Division in Madrid on Saturday 11th? And now they've decided to investigate themselves for authorizing that tribute. Do you think that's how they better protect the victims? Why, for example, is the form for requesting the nullity of decisions and declaration of personal recognition and reparation not yet available? Why have civil registers not yet issued any nationality? Why have they not included in the files of the Franco rulings their nullity, as the rule dictates? Do you know that the law sets deadlines for carrying out studies, audits of property that have been expropriated precisely in this legislature? Do you know that the law sets out six months to draw up regulations? Do you know that if you do not draw up this regulation we will be the same as in 2007? We are already fifteen years late, but nothing makes us think that they will comply, since you have made it clear in the media that this was not a priority for the Government now. Look, Minister, with the passing of the law you know that all they wanted was a simple headline to hang the medallion of progress because, in fact, everything is going to follow the same as always. That's PSOE's mark. Minister, you are in breach of your own law. They're the resignation party. Do you see why Esquerra Republicana abstained, while others gave grandiose and triumphant speeches saying that now it is true that justice and reparation will be done in six months? Well, they have four, and every day that happens without the new frame unfolding, the more they give us reason. We warned you: our abstention was not a vote of confidence, it was a vote of warning, and so we will continue until it recovers and repairs the memory of the hundreds of thousands of victims who fought and perished in defense of democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u118	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u119	Thank you very much. Mrs Telechea, deploying the law of memory is exactly what we are doing, when we are financing with public money that victims find the remains of their loved ones and can give them a decent burial, it is also to recognize all those people who suffered the persecution of dictatorship and Francoism. Let me tell you that you have observed some inconsistency in what you say, because this of that Republican Left of Catalonia does not support the laws - because you did not support the law of memory - and then demands its deployment and its implementation, will not deny me that it is quite inconsistent. Just as inconsistent as what you did with the labor reform, which you voted against; a labor reform that has achieved half a million more jobs in the year 2022, 2 million more indefinite and 20.5 million members. You vote no and do not support it, but then demand that the laws that you have not supported be implemented. We will continue to work to improve the lives of the majority. And when you decide not to support or vote against at least be consistent with the decisions you make, because when you did not support labour reform, from that day on, you may be Republicans and from Catalonia, but not from the left. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT MARTA GONZALEZ VÁZQUEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: ARE YOU GOING TO CORRECT THE TRANS LAW SO THAT IT DOESN'T HAPPEN AS WITH THE LAW 'SELF IS YES'? [[File number 180/001157]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u120	Questions to the Minister for Equality. Question by Mrs Marta González Vázquez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u121	Thank you, President. Mrs Montero, the General Council of the Judiciary envisages 4000 reviews of convictions for the amendment of the Criminal Code that you forced and this House voted in the law of yes yes. In view of its undeniable legislative successes, will it rectify in extremis the trans law so that it does not have the disastrous consequences that are already foreseen? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u122	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u123	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this law comes to help us combat discrimination against LGBTI people and, in particular, trans people, to expand their opportunities for happiness, and if you find resistance in their application we will face them hand in hand with LGBTI people. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u124	Mrs. González.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u125	Mrs Montero, you have become the vivid image of the damage caused to Spanish society by a government called a feminist; a coalition that the Spaniards have been putting up with for too long. Never in the history of Spanish democracy has such a situation been experienced; never has a decision had such serious consequences for the security and confidence of women. There are 508 cuts in convictions for their irresponsible and childish encumbrance; 508 women distressed at their terrible mistake, if it has been a mistake. With your legislative nonsense you have put the Government in the deepest crisis of these three years of dislates, Mrs Montero, and now the last disaster has no solution, no matter how desperate you have resorted to blaming the judges, who in your words are macho factions, and other bad and useless justifications to see if he was cheating on someone, but keeping in parallel his mantra of lawlessness at the expense of the tranquility of the victims of sexual violence and their families. And you have the defachability to say that when you experience difficult moments, you have to face it. One thing is that the moment is difficult and another very different is to be the cause of the disaster, which is its case: 42 released aggressors and 4000 sentences that will be reviewed, according to the data that are handled and that can be even worse, because of their paralysis and disability. When this happens, out of dignity, you ask for forgiveness and then resign. You don't deserve to be called a minister, because you don't qualify for it. She allowed her partner Mrs Llop - absent - to take responsibility to this House last week, without her face falling in shame, which is what would happen to anyone else responsible. Is that the sorority among women that feminists proclaim? I'd call it cowardice. [[Applauds]] If you don't resign now, you have to cease the most responsible of this hussy which, as is your custom, has been absent, and will not cease it because of your ineptitude or irresponsibility but for revenue... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u126	Thank you very much, Mrs González. Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u127	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I see that the rights and lives of trans and LGBT people - which is why you asked - do not matter very much, but the trans law to be adopted tomorrow in this House recognises the right to self-determination of gender identity, as requested by the Yogyakarta Principles, the Council of Europe in its Resolution 2048 and also the European Union's LGTB Strategy, which ask us to recognize the right to self-determination of gender identity. It is a law that gives us tools to combat discrimination suffered by thousands of LGBTI people and trans people in this country. It gives lesbians rights, for example, so that they can join their children without having to be married. The problem is that you have a problem with feminist rights; you don't like any feminist rights, you don't know if abortion is a right and you don't want LGBTI people and trans people living better in this country either. [[rumors]] A few days ago Mrs Ayuso was responsible for a trans law, which is not yet in force, for the increase in suicides and depressions that push adolescents to be what they are not. No, ladies and gentlemen, these laws allow everyone to be who they are, without guilt, without fear and without discrimination on the part of society. Precisely depression, suicide attempts, mockery, discrimination, is the reality of thousands of boys, teenage girls and LGBTI and trans people in our country, and that is why we need this trans law. I ask you to reflect and assume your responsibility, because every time they spread bubbles, every time they broadcast hate speeches they are legitimizing them and normalizing society to think that it is legitimate to spread those bubbles. [[rumors]] Then, when they kill someone in this country in the cry of'maricón' we take our hands to our heads, but if we want to end the hate crimes we also have to end the hate speeches that are at their base. [[rumors]] Your Honor, the first right we have to guarantee for everyone is the right to be, not to live in hiding, not to live with guilt, not to live in fear of being who you are and to suffer discrimination from being who you are. This law already comes to a country where footballers come out of the closet and where people want to be who they are without discrimination. Trans law will be law. [[Applauds]] - OF THE IGNACIO GIL LAZARO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMING THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCY, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WHY THE GOVERNMENT OBSERVED THAT BEFORE THE CALLING 'LEY OF YES' WAS APPROVED Sexual delinquents? [[File number 180/001162]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u128	Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u129	Thank you very much, President. This question was addressed to the Minister of the Presidency, who has olympically taken off from the middle, who remains to see the show and has endorsed it to you as a stabbing trapper. Therefore, Minister of Equality, why did the Government conceal that before passing the law of yes yes did it know that it would benefit sex offenders? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u130	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u131	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I didn't know you guys would miss Minister Bolaños so much. Look, the Organic Law on the Integral Guarantee of Sexual Freedom, the memory of the normative impact analysis, the report of the Spanish Data Protection Agency, the opinion of the Economic and Social Council, the report of the General Council of the Judiciary, the report of the Fiscal Council and the opinion of the Council of State arrived in this House... do you know when, Your Honor? July 7, 2021. Have you had time to take a look at it? [[Shows a document.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u132	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, you already know that Mr Bolaños is characterized by talking about what you are not asked about and not talking about what you are asked about, but let's get to the point. The Government lied; the Government stated that no one had warned it; many voices and institutions warned of what was going to happen, of course this parliamentary group in its amendment to the whole, and also the Council for the Participation of Women, attached to its ministry. Finally, the former Vice-President of the Government, Ms Carmen Calvo, has confessed that she did, that the Government did know what was going to happen and that she knew it through a report from the Ministry of the Presidency, which she was then the holder of, dated 16 September 2020. In the end, the Government, in addition to lying, tried to entangle its lie in general terms, and particularly its ministry, by calling fascists, other ignorant judges or blaming the press for causing social alarm by reporting what was happening. In the end, Minister, the height of the hills is to have had to endure the chalices of your Secretary of State for Equality in a matter of this nature. Also here, in this immense misconception, no one has resigned. Now, after three months and with the devastating effects that the law is producing, you are unable to agree to serve the general interest, which is the immediate defence, the legal protection of women and minors. This, Minister, once again reveals the enormous political and moral misery of this government and, of course, constitutes a real insult to the victims and to the whole of Spanish society. That is why we will continue to say that only VOX remains here to speak clearly in front of this government in defence of the rule of law, law and democracy, at the exclusive service of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u134	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u135	Your Honor, I'm going to assume that you spread bulls and lies about the mandatory reports of the law only if it is simply because neither the title of those reports has been read. The only warning to be given in respect of the Criminal Code was that of the General Council of the Judiciary. I read it literally. Look. It says: 'On the other hand, the reduction of the maximum limits of the penalties will entail the revision of those convictions in which the maximum penalties have been imposed in accordance with the regulations in force'. Do you know what the government did precisely by reading this report? Keep the maximum penalties. We corrected the first version of the law and kept the maximum penalties. So much so, that you and the People's Party campaigned against the law only if it is just the opposite of reducing penalties. They said: you can't call a beautiful woman in this country anymore, they're going to ask for a contract to have sex. Do you remember Cayetana saying: you are going to say yes, yes, yes all the time while you have a sexual relationship? You have campaigned against this law just the opposite. I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that the majority of judges in this country are applying the law well and that only a minority of judges are making decisions contrary to the law and transitional law and reducing convictions for sexual offenders. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u136	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u137	What cannot be said is that the law is good for the majority who apply it well and badly for the minority who apply it badly. The point, Your Honor, is that you have always been against consent. Their arguments have nothing to do with the reduction of penalties for sexual abusers, but with whether they now have to wake up their wife before maintaining a sexual relationship. [[Applauds]] You, with your vows, want to return to the previous Penal Code, to that of violence and intimidation, where the woman had to demonstrate with the wounds in her body the violence that had been exercised against her in order to be believed and not, ladies and gentlemen, that ended. From now on, when there is no consent, there is sexual assault. I want to devote the last few seconds to addressing the House. I think we need to reach an agreement before that debate reaches this plenary, with consent at the centre and without allowing... [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in common, some of them standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u138	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u139	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group into the need to adopt the necessary legislative amendments to increase compensation for wrongful dismissal in order to achieve a real redress of the worker concerned and a deterrent effect. For your defence, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary continues, there is no recess. I'm asking you to be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u140	Good morning, President. Good morning, minister. It is a pity that Mr Bolaños has left, because he would have to ask for an inquiry to talk about republicanism, the left and Catalonia in the last twenty-five years. It can be fun to see this Che Guevara of the PSOE, great Republican and great leftist, giving us lessons. Anyway, what was missing! Let's get to the point and get serious. In principle, the question of interpellation was confined to wrongful dismissal. We shall see what Mr Bolaños, this leftist, votes on when the motion is taken. We started from the 2010 PSOE labor reform - the 2010 PSOE - which then ended the People's Party labor reform in 2012, which changed the rules that regulate the labour market. Among many other things, processing wages, administrative authorization in the event of collective redundancies were charged and an essential issue such as the causes of objective redundancies was changed. These leftists who want to teach us lessons! Among many other things, processing wages were charged, as I said, the objective causes were expanded, they were made more flexible - a word that I never liked very much - in such a way that even today article 51 of the Workers' Statute allows a company, despite having profits, with the mere fact of proving that it has diminished profits can fire a worker with twenty days with a maximum of twelve monthly payments. This is the current situation we have. Leaving for another time the topic of causes and other very interesting topics on labor legislation, which we will deal promptly in the form of a joint bill with Bildu and BNG, we will now focus on opening a debate that already touches after more than eleven years of the last labor reform of the People's Party. We are referring to the low compensation for wrongful dismissal. To this end, we want to appreciate, and to a great extent to follow, an excellent initiative of the General Workers' Union, of the UGT, and a very good work of its technical team, led by Mr Fernando Luján, on improper dismissals. In fact, we continue in this inquiry much of its excellent argument. UGT submitted a complaint to the European Committee of Social Rights stating that Spanish legislation violates the European Social Charter on compensation for wrongful dismissal. The violation of the European Social Charter is not anything, it is possibly the most important social reference treaty for the recognition of social rights, including the right to work; and from this point of view we will develop our inquiry to the Government and to the minister. An improper dismissal - as she very well knows - unjustified, without cause or with fictitious cause, must be combated by law, and currently the legislation of the Spanish State not only does not combat them effectively but facilitates them. The compensation can be calculated beforehand without margin of error and also comes very cheap. We think this isn't fair - and we think we're going to share it -, it's not fair. If a person unjustly loses his or her job, the most appropriate conclusion would be that he or she would recover it and that would not be changed by a monetary equivalent. How much are the jobs that are destroyed without meaning, without reason, in the case of improper, unjustly? How much are those jobs worth? Let's give an example. Does anyone think that a 60-year-old, unjustifiably dismissed from his business, with terrible consequences of employability and contributions for the rest of his life, is compensated with 24 monthly wages, if he is lucky enough to reach them? I do not think that, and certainly most of the working people want to keep the job and not give them money in exchange for subjecting them to the uncertainty of when or not they will find a new job. So, from a healthy labour policy, in a fairer labour relations system, the right thing, the important thing, is not how much they pay you, but they can't fire you by the face. That would be our main argument. You have to avoid bad practice in the laws. The reality, as I said, is that in the Kingdom of Spain dismissal can practically be considered free and that it can be dismissed without just cause; any entrepreneur can fire the worker without having any objective cause for this dismissal. I'm not talking about disciplinary reasons, he's talking about reality. You can say goodbye to a person because he or she falls ill, or you can say goodbye to a person because he or she is not docile enough, or because you are too well advised by your union, or because you do not want workers to accumulate old age in the company. This, unfortunately, happens and that is why laws are made, to avoid bad practices. And, so that it does not happen, we believe that there are two alternatives: either unjustified dismissals are actually prevented, or we legislate so that the price of the dismissal is dissuasive and that it also compensates for the damage caused to the worker. Having an indefinite contract is very good, but it is not so good if it can be broken at any time and without explanation by the entrepreneur. I mean, you have to complete that job. It gives some uneasiness to have an indefinite employment contract if it is not properly protected, in this is what we want to affect. And it is not protected in a labour reality with more than two and a half million people earning the minimum wage, which we will vote in favour because we have always voted in favour, as it cannot be otherwise, as in many reforms of labour legislation we have made and of which we could make a long list. For this reason, among other reasons, we are investing in this Government, in order to influence these areas. There is a very seasonal labour market that forces a large number of fixed contracts to be made discontinuous, with a large percentage of unwanted and abusive part-time contracts, which would be a subject for further questioning. That is to say, despite the improvements made by the Executive with the social dialogue, the compensation for dismissal of a worker who covers, for example, the interprofessional minimum wage with one, two or three years of age, which is almost three million, is very cheap. In short, neither the causes nor the price of dismissal have deterrent effects, and what is allowed at such a cheap price is that - if I am allowed this caricature - you can tell a person: you don't need to come back tomorrow. Why? You can ask the worker. Well, look - and I'm going to set an example so I don't offend anyone - I'm going to fire you because you're very bald and we don't like you. [[Laughter]] It's something that can happen and nothing would happen. And I can ask him: And how much will he pay me for being bald and firing me? Well, look, you earn 1100 euros, like so many millions of people, and as you will take about six months, I pay you 500 euros, 33 days a year worked, and don't make me look bad because I pay you equally in eight, ten or twelve months, because since the past reforms took away the salaries of processing, I'm going to force you to go to court to win this suit. Remember that wealth I believe, not you, sir. By the way, watch your head! This is the reality. [[Applauds]] In the face of this caricature, which sometimes serves me to explain what I mean, the UGT went to seek European justice. It is normal for me to seek European justice. And it is that talking about justice in the Kingdom of Spain for the issues of workers or of the rights of peoples is laughable. So the UGT went to Europe, as it can't be otherwise. And what happened in Europe? Against the lying discourse that dismissal in Spain is very expensive, the reality is that in Europe, in most countries, dismissal is accompanied, if unjustified, by compulsory readmission. This is the reality. Moreover, ILO Convention 158, which this Government has done well to support, like our group, on the issue of domestic workers, for example, says that, in the case of unjustified termination of the employment contract, the first option is readmission, and if it cannot be readmitted, it must be compensated with sufficiently dissuasive, sufficiently restorative compensation. But that is not the case. Article 30 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which is binding on all the Member States of the Union, obliges workers to be protected against unjustified dismissals. On the other hand, the revised European Social Charter states in its article 24 that unjustified dismissal must entail readmission and, if not, a sufficiently dissuasive and remedial measure corresponding to the damage caused. And, to close the circle, the Kingdom of Spain, in July 2021 - very well done, fantastic, we congratulate you, we agree - ratified the revised European Social Charter as a whole. We have to value this and we value it. In other words, the ratification of the Kingdom of Spain of the European Social Charter as a whole, which says what we are defending, is in force. The possibility that trade union organisations could make collective complaints to the European Committee of Social Rights was opened in pairs. Well, the demand submitted by UGT on 24 March 2022 is sufficiently legally supported, but, above all, I would add that also politically if you really believe in a social state, as we believe the parties that faithfully defend the interests of the working class. Today Spain does not comply with ILO Convention 158 nor does it comply with its revised European Social Charter. In Spain, compensation is neither dissuasive nor compensatory. The possibilities of demand I dare say are very high. At the moment, it has already been admitted and, in fact, there are up to three favourable precedents. The European Committee of Social Rights itself has already considered a demand from the French trade unions against the French Government that dismissal in France is in breach of the European Social Charter and that it must therefore be corrected. The same has happened in Finland and Italy and, in fact, the inquiry comes more into account, since the Government of Spain has requested that the time limit for replying to UGT's request be extended until 31 January. At the moment - and I take it that the minister is here in case she can consult the government - I do not know what the answer is, the truth, I do not know, whether she has responded to the request made by the European Commission or not. In any case, it's very easy to guess what it's going to say. Finishing. The reason for the appeal and subsequent urgent motion is to urge the Government of the Kingdom of Spain to put an end to this anomaly that we believe to be unfair and I believe will be shared by the left-wing parties of this House; an improper and unjustified dismissal is a matter that can cause and cause serious harm to working people. Moreover, in the case of older persons or persons with difficulty in returning to work, the damage is very clear, if not irreparable. For this reason, we believe that we must legislate urgently, so that unjustified redundancies fall into jeopardy. We must avoid dismissals without cause and, if they occur and a judge gives reason to the worker, that the worker may be reinstated or receive sufficient compensation to compensate for the problem caused by his dismissal, as is the case elsewhere. In fact, true justice would be in examining what harm has been done by an unjust decision. When this happens, we will be able to say that we are complying with the European Social Charter because the redundancies will be compensatory and will also be dissuasive. Whatever the case may be, Madam Vice-President - and this is the end of it - I think it is time that we all together continue to improve labour legislation, that all together, taking advantage of this majority which supported this investiture, we try to take a step forward to modify aspects such as these and that, in this case, compensations are dissuasive and, if it can be, remedial. And, nothing more, I'll listen to her carefully and see if we keep moving forward. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the second Vice-President and Minister for Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your inquiry and thank you to the Group of the Republican Left because I believe that it brings a debate to the House not only of interest but of utmost importance to the workers of our country. I am very sorry that there are very few people in this House right now, and they do not seem to be very interested. In any case, I thank you because the commitment of this ministry is to healthy labour relations and, above all, to compliance with labour law. We fully agree that we must combat unjustified redundancies. We have done so and we will continue to do so, as do the countries that believe in the rule of law and the sovereignty of the law. You have spoken about the social state and, yes, it is a part of the Spanish Constitution that is key and must be fulfilled. Unwarranted dismissals are illegal and very serious, moreover, because if we tolerate them or do not do what is necessary to combat them, irreparable damage occurs. Your Honor, I'm going to outline four major damages. The first is the damage to working people who are victims of unjust dismissals and who suffer from precariousness, who lose money and, above all, lose their life expectancy, lose their future. That is why we approve the labor reform against precariousness. The second, the damage to all working people, because the fear of losing employment, if the cost is low for the company, will cause rights not to be claimed - I know very well what I am talking about, it makes no sense to claim - and will also generate under bad working conditions. [[The Lord]] That is why, Your Honor, as we share, we have approved the labor reform against precariousness. The third is the damage caused to companies that comply with the law by the unfair competition of companies that, as I said today, use people in junk labor relations, to use and throw away, I also believe that this is the goal of labour reform. But the fourth damage has to do with the Spanish economy. Let us say that there is a cost that is never talked about and that is key, a direct cost that is clear and that affects public unemployment benefits, but above all there is an economic and social cost that I think is the most important, that of those lives in parentheses, those lives that cannot have a future, that have no plans, but also those lives that cannot consume, that cannot live with dignity. This is also the goal of labour reform. The labor reform of 2021 has been a lethal weapon against precariousness, and here are the facts that show it. That path of zero tolerance with precariousness is one that we must continue to travel and assure working people, quality companies and our society. The whole system falls if we do not establish a railway guarantee to ensure the stability of the working people, and stability - you know very well - means eliminating the perversity of work rotation as a dynamic. With the elimination of precariousness we have laid the ground to ensure stable working relationships and professional lives, but from that ground we must ensure that we do not take steps backwards and that stability is consolidated as a paradigm of our working relationships and, I say clearly, without escape windows and without debris. We've been talking, as you know very well, a long time about compensation for wrongful dismissal. This is certainly a crucial issue that we must continue to talk about and, above all, face up to in the right direction, as we have done with many standards of the ministry. I'm telling you, no traps. It cannot be trivialized by dismissal, you have said, and we must not consent to fallacious arguments or interested debates about the price of dismissal, because it is of the future and the law of what we are talking about. The right not to be a victim of dismissal without cause is enshrined in article 35 of the Constitution itself. You know very well that the Constitutional Court itself has repeatedly established that this stability in employment derives directly from the constitutional mandate of Article 35, and this is what this House has to guarantee. A job market based on redundancies, of course, is not acceptable. Cheap layoffs do not encourage hiring, but toxic labour relations, because cheap layoffs do - and you have said - favor rotation and precariousness. It is so meridian that right now we are blushed that at some point someone could have defended such barbarity in this House. But this was done - you said - in the 2012 labour reform, when the compensation for dismissal was lowered from forty-five to thirty-three days per year of service and when processing wages were eliminated. We cannot tolerate dismissal as a commodity. Work is not a commodity, because we agree that life expectancy is not a commodity and therefore we cannot tolerate the inclusion of unfair redundancies in business planning along with the investment list for the following year. [[Declaration of Philadelphia, 1944]] If the public authorities do not provide compensatory and dissuasive compensation, what we would actually be doing is subsidising dismissal, and the bill, as I said, pays the entire society, in benefits, in mental health, in precariousness and in low-quality businesses. There are so many attacks on fundamental rights in these improper low-cost layoffs, Mr Salvador - I know you know it - as when a company - and this is ironic - rejuvenates the staff and leaves older employees on the street, with insufficient compensation to repair the damage caused. Can we really consent to this assault? Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to tell you that those who need the greatest protection in the face of dismissal without cause are the companies themselves, those who invest in stability and training which, yes, are the majority of this country, and those who also invest not in the cost of dismissal, in that planning, but in loyalty, in training and in maintaining their staff. I insist, I think they are the majority, and that is why it is necessary to touch all the sticks so that the price of dismissal without cause does not fall. I believe that we are closing the gulf of precariousness with the 2021 reform and this, as you know, has automatically raised compensation because relations today are indefinite. Fortunately, and the result of the labour reform, those twelve-day compensations - hopefully - of compensation ended, because these contractual arrangements no longer exist. I will make a statement that fights all the official speech: firing in our country is not expensive, you know very well, it is too cheap. It's so cheap that you get to lay off using the wrongful redundancy payment and pay thirty-three days, even if it's legal and 20 days go by. That's right. This small difference is a veritable perversion of the system, which means that there is no effective protection against abuse. They are paid thirty-three, even though they are paid twenty, because it is cheap, Mr. Savior. There have been, as is known, too many voices interested for a long time, as has happened with precariousness, in maintaining that dismissal in Spain was cheap and, moreover, do advertising exercises. The price of normal dismissal in Spain is or was zero, which when it was disciplinary was justified, or is twenty days' pay for ETOP causes. I agree with you. You talk about anomaly, I talk about pathology. The Spanish system is a pathology, and good proof of that is that we are from the few countries in Europe that have a similar system and that it has also lasted so long. I will give you an example: France copied the dismissal model of Mr Rajoy's and the People's Party's labour reform and, as you know, has had to correct it, because the Committee on Social and Economic Rights has said that it does not comply - and that is why it is asking - with Article 24 of the European Social Charter and with the question of the conventionality of ILO Convention 158. France has had to correct it and we are an anomaly throughout the European Union. As you said, it will soon be Spain's turn; the most representative unions have filed collective complaints to warn whether we comply with Article 24 of the European Social Charter or not. I would like to tell you that, as you have pointed out and I am grateful to you, it has often been questioned that we were going to ratify not only the European Social Charter, but the collective complaints, and we have done so. In this way, Spain has returned to international legality. In the last two years we have updated and ratified everything we had pending, we are the country that has ratified the most ILO conventions. Of course, I have my word that we are going to comply, as it cannot be otherwise, with what the Committee on Social and Economic Rights decides, because it is the source of our country's law. I have two judgments, because I think it is good to illustrate to the House where the debate is, and I would also like to thank the Spanish courts because they often not only have imagination, but they are put forward in the defence and correct interpretation of the rules, as is shown in a judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. I'm going to read you the fifth fact, which, despite the inadmissibility of the dismissal, admits additional compensation to the legally assessed. It says: In the field of employment contract, unlike in civil law, it legally and traditionally governs assessed compensation, calculated on the basis of objective criteria such as salary to years of service provision and subject to maximum ceilings, regardless of whether it determines other parameters, such as emerging damage, loss of profits or moral damage caused. Accordingly, the employer - this judgment says - may decide to terminate the contract unilaterally at any time, knowing exactly what the cost of compensation for dismissal will be and without the worker being able to claim additional compensation for the damage caused. This general rule had only one exception - the judgment says -: when the extinguishing decision had been taken on discriminatory grounds. I do not continue to read because I am running out of time, but this judgment refers to other previous judgments and, ultimately, this question is whether or not we comply with Article 24 of the European Social Charter. We are from the few countries with the indemnities found. And with regard to the report on which you ask me, you know that I am not competent to issue international reports, that the competent is the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u144	Thank you, President. Thank you, minister, for the answer. It is clear that we agree on many things. In fact, historically, we have agreed on many things. When you were a Member we were practically 90% of things together and the diagnoses are similar. In fact, the investiture, for our part, was based on the fact that we preferred a government of Podemos to pressure the PSOE - we have never hidden it - on social issues and on national issues, and so it has been. In fact, I remember that we fought together on the issue of pensions. I remember the Toledo Pact of 2017, and the Toledo Pact that we subsequently had has nothing to do with the one we were accused of breaking up in 2017, for example. We have supported the SMI, we have fought against Article 135 of the Constitution, which gives priority to the payment of debt over basic services, and I believe we have many elements in common. It is true that we had a subject of discrepancy at one point, which was labour reform. Well, I do not want to go into this because it does not touch and, simply, in terms of forms and time, we thought that parallel to the social dialogue there would have to have been a much richer parliamentary debate for months. And, secondly, you know that differences in labour reform are not comparable to those we have with this bench here.In any case, there was discussion on the calendar, whether you could go beyond or not go beyond. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] Either way, we are at a time when we have put a subject on which we agree. I think there are still many things that I think we share that can be improved, you know the list, but I think we have to go step by step to improve them and I think that today we have taken an important step. We have started a debate, I think we have shown before the House that unjustified dismissal is an anomaly or a pathology - nor are there so many differences - in our legislative code. The hand continues to spread on issues such as the SMI and to continue to improve things, because I believe that we are both parties that we qualify ourselves to be faithful to the interests of the working class and we must continue to expand this space. Thank you very much for your reply, we take the floor, we will continue to work step by step and forward. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u145	Thank you. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President and Minister for Labour and Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u146	Mr Salvador, thank you for your words, for your tone, for your reflection and, above all, for your affection, if you will allow me. I believe that politics serves this, to have calm debates on issues that matter to the social majority, because we talk about the social majority when we talk about the workers of our country. I don't see politics as a struggle, and I think you know it. So, I don't think I'm ever confused as an opponent. I know very well who I represent and where I am. And you know that I am a Minister of Labour and, as such, I defend the work in my country. Besides, I know very well where I come from, I don't want to look anything else. I therefore know that we share many things and, without a doubt, we can have differences, but what I like is calm debates. And I do say that I think we should act on one issue, and it is because it is a source of law, simply, and we democrats have to respect legality and we cannot exclude it, whether we like it or not. I think it is important that we stop talking in our country - not you or me, but there are those who talk like that - about the cost of firing as if it were a toll or as if it were a rent. Because when we talk about the cost of dismissal, what we are saying - and I used to quote Article 35 of the Constitution - is that we are talking about an unjustified conduct that is violating the legal order and therefore cannot be consented to in a democratic country like ours. I believe that this is also the case in all the countries of the world. The point is that it is an anomaly that we have a fixed compensation - I said earlier - which is often included in company plans, and this has to be repaired, as it is in the causes of discrimination and as it has already been resolved, for example with the interpretations of some directive. Why am I saying this? Because, logically, dismissal must be dissuasive and must repair the damage that has been caused - articles 1101 et seq., until 1106 of the Civil Code -. Of course it has to be. The conditions of a person who is close to old age and loses his job are not the same as those of a person who is young. Or the family situations of some workers and others are not the same. I therefore believe that this debate is very important, but above all we must move a message, which is that when we talk about unjustified dismissals it means that the law is being violated in our country. And we cannot speak from our democratic courage even in this way, especially because these people - we have said both - are victims. I am from a region - you know very well - that you know well what unemployment is, that it is a victim of the evil so-called industrial conversion, where thinking about having a job is sometimes impossible mission. Therefore, these people are victims and it is a duty of this House and of Spanish policy, of course, that they have a good job, that they have dignity of rights and that they have the necessary redress if the law is violated. I insist that the vast majority are healthy, decent companies that obviously comply with the law in our country. Sounds good to me. I therefore make an allegation in favour of companies that comply with the law. But when in this House - you know - you listened to public representatives who defend themselves in entrepreneurs who violate the law, I think they are doing a bad democratic exercise. When we talk about this subject we are talking, in short, about democracy and legality, but we are talking about something fundamental: the right to effective judicial protection, article 24 of the Spanish Constitution. I already know that the Constitution is widely invoked here, but, as is well known, it is not fulfilled as some say. And I only say to you, Mr Salvador, and to the Republican Left Group and to this House, that this ministry will comply with the source of law emanating, where appropriate, from this committee. There was an interesting discussion in the Spanish courts before the ratification of the European Social Charter and of collective claims as to whether or not it could be invoked directly. Well, this has already been resolved, you know it perfectly well and, as we are seeing, there are many courts that are already saying that the top to that unjustified compensation does not fit Article 24 of the European Social Charter and we have a small problem with ILO Convention 158. Thank you very much and we look forward to your proposals on the motion. [[Applauds]] - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the development of the Government's action within the scope of the Ministry of Justice, particularly with regard to the administration of justice's lettering, as well as on the proposal and implementation of the Government's policy for the development of the legal order in matters of criminal, civil, commercial and procedural law. [[File number 172/000269]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u147	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the development of the Government's action within the Ministry of Justice, especially with regard to the strike of lawyers of the Administration of Justice, as well as on the proposal and implementation of the Government's policy for the development of the legal system in the area of criminal, civil, commercial and procedural law. Mr. Santamaría Ruiz has the floor for his defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u148	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, last week you assumed first-person responsibility for the consequences of the harsh law of yes is yes, which, as all Spaniards know, for the only thing you have served has been to reduce the sentence to 519 monsters and to release another 50. Instead of being concerned about the victims, rather than showing them affection, solidarity and understanding, you prefer to devote yourself to saving the only thing that is important to you: the coalition of government with Podemos, minister. [[Applauds]] And it does so by stating that relations with the Ministry of Equality - as if that, minister, cared for someone - are broken, as if that were important to the victims when they only care about you. Last week, Mrs Llop said that she assumed first-person responsibility for what could happen and today, seven days later, we are still in the same place where we left him. Have you not learned that the consequences of yes are that they cannot happen, but that they are already happening? Are the walls of the ministry so wide and the carpets so soft that you have not heard the cry of a country that since November 15 is watching the penalties be reduced to real monsters? And you while you're talking about what can happen. What was I thinking when I said that about what could happen? Were you thinking about the victims or the anger of Irene Montero, the disgust of Echenique, the discomfort of Pam or Victoria Rosell and her sandwiches, won't it be that they could get upset? But what else has to happen - I ask myself, Minister - for you to assume the responsibilities that correspond to you and present your resignation? Is it necessary for you to repeat any of the monsters that you have released? Is it necessary for them to forever mark the life of a child, a child or a woman so that you know what is going on? [[Applauds]] And as this happens, you, Minister, remain focused on what is important to you, which is nothing other than saving the relations of your ministry with Podemos and Sánchez's as we can. Could you at least tell us if you have managed to save that relationship with that party that says of the law of yes is - I read textually - that it is a model that would have to inspire many other laws in the world? Explain to us if you share what the Government's delegate against gender violence, Victoria Rosell, says that feminism has never been punitive and that when a society can only propose a policy of more penalties, it is that policy that pains. Do you agree with those claims, Mrs Llop? I ask you to break your silence and defend the judges. You're a judge. Do you share the insults that Irene Montero has just cast against the judiciary? Do you share them or are you afraid to upset her? Answer me, Mrs. Llop. Ladies and gentlemen, how can you govern with those who bet to lower penalties for sexual abusers? Am I wrong to think that is precisely that, the reduction of penalties, what they have accepted as a state policy with him is yes? Mrs. Llop, enough lies. Is yes a mistake imposed by Podemos' petulance or is it, as it seems, a clear bet by a society in which sexual assaults have no pain or are very small? Are they really proposing to us a model of coexistence in which women, and also our sons and daughters, should get used to living with the monsters of yes yes? Is that what you're defending? Is that what the government stands for, Mrs. Llop? Do you think it reasonable to reduce the penalties to monsters who abuse girls, those who rape relatives or as those who benefited yesterday: the rapist of the Lugo portal or that of Ceuta, who has seen his sentence reduced despite being convicted of an offence of continuous rape with the aggravating of kinship? Is that what you're defending? [[Applauds]] Because, of course, the law of yes is yes, but not only that; the law of yes is yes is another example of how you put your ideological prejudices before the well-being of the Spaniards and that, Mrs Llop, Spanish society will not allow it. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, when the effects of the law began to be known on November 15 last year, you, Mrs Llop, kept a significant silence a few days ago that only broke days later to say that the law of yes is yes-eye - it is a good law because it seeks to protect women. It's an expression that I think sums up your stay in the Ministry of Justice. Let me ask you, Mrs Llop, why are you in politics to protect women in order to protect women? [[Applauds]] Because you may feel the same way, but it isn't. Are you content to pretend to be a good minister or do you want to be a good minister? I ask him because, look where he looks, the management of his ministry seems to be permeated by this philosophy. You have a dynamic of pretending without achieving any tangible results; a pretending without, for example, carrying out your department's flagship project, the 2030 Justice project, which is concrete in the adoption of procedural organizational efficiency and digital efficiency laws. Minister, are you going to settle for trying to change the basis of the model of justice or are you going to be able to change it? I'm telling you this because if you're going to get it, you have to go to the Ministry of Finance and get the money you need so that these laws don't stay on wet paper, because that's what a minister who wants to get to be a good minister of justice does. Let me ask you: Where is the money in the general state budgets for the implementation of these three laws? Because the Ministry of Finance has only assessed the implementation of the Judicial Office at 144 million euros, which are not reflected in the general budgets of the State for this year, Minister. Mrs Llop, passing laws without budget allocation is passing laws that are as valuable as the wet paper they are published in the BOE. Achieving a change in the model of justice means fighting for the necessary funds to ensure that laws can be enforced. It's just that it's a drawer, there's no need to abound in reasoning. However, the facts show that you have thrown the towel. The same is true of other matters affecting his ministry. You intend, in your own logic, to be a dialogue minister; however, you have the lawyers of the Administration of Justice on strike since last 24 January, and it will not be until tomorrow, 16 February, when you will sit with them to dialogue. Do you think it is possible to dialogue with officials when the brilliance and lenient Secretary of State you appointed called coupsmen who legitimately exercise constitutional rights? Do you think that you can lead the dialogue by a person who, as some LAJ has told us, privately told you that you will sit down and negotiate - he textually - 'when you and your children have starved to death'? Do you think that's possible? Do you think it's possible? Do you believe that the best way to dialogue is to issue an instruction prohibiting vacations, which, according to the Prosecutor's Office, violates the right to strike? Do you believe that you can safeguard the Public Justice Service when there are 130,000 trials and hearings suspended, 120,000 applications pending delivery, 500 million euros pending delivery, two million unannounced telematics notifications, etc.? Minister, I now resolve the labour problems that affect your ministry, and that not only affect the LAJs, they affect the management body, the processing body, the aid body, and also forensics, judges, prosecutors and magistrates. Solve it, because that's your responsibility. Listen to the trade union organizations and associations that represent them, and don't act like that time when they reached an agreement, they joined hands and then didn't come to sign because the Ministry of Finance didn't let them sign, which was the most ridiculous in the history of labor relations in this country. Don't repeat that ridiculous, Minister. Mrs Llop, when you were appointed Minister of Justice, you left behind the presidency of the Senate, not without cancelling a vote that had already taken place. It is true that, given this circumstance, you did not come with the best endorsement, but we trusted in your respect to parliamentarianism, coming from where you came from; however, it was not so. Mrs Llop, the respect you have for this House is summed up in the number of times you have come to the Committee on Justice to give explanations, which I ask you to elaborate on later, because I think I remember that it was unique and exclusively once. And do you know how many times we've asked you to come in to explain? Do you know that? Twenty-three, twenty-three times you've refused. Do you think this is the best way to express your respect for Parliament? Do you think this is reasonable? You're a flight minister, Mrs. Llop. Twenty-three The pending appearances are an offence to parliamentarianism and a demonstration of the lack of respect for this House. Ms. Llop asked: Why do you avoid explaining to the Spaniards why Mrs. Dolores Delgado has stormed four hundred posts from the escalphon to access the Supreme Court as a Prosecutor of the Chamber, against the criteria of the Fiscal Council and by the grace not of God, but of the Attorney General of the State who replaced her? Mrs Llop, why have you avoided explaining why the Ministry of Justice has been the driving force behind the elimination of the sedition crime? Why don't you explain to us a question that worries us? How will it guarantee the exercise of fundamental rights if the right of sedition has been eliminated, if the crime of aggravated public disorder has been decapitated, if the crime of disorder has been restricted and if the instruments that the law of citizen security provides to the security forces and bodies of the State - eye - to defend the fundamental rights and freedoms of the Spaniards - to defend the fundamental rights and freedoms of the Spaniards, which you have left defenseless, have been renounced? Why have they eliminated the crime of embezzlement when the European Union since the 2017 Directive, and in order to protect the European heritage, requires that the penalty of embezzlement be punished by a minimum of four years? And so, Minister, I could go on to deal with twenty-three issues that you have pending and that I do not know if one day - I imagine - you will have the right to explain. Minister, you're done. I am convinced that you have come to politics full of good intentions - I have no doubt - but I cannot help but say that good intentions are not enough, Mrs Llop, they are not enough, and that their management is the story of failure. Madam Minister, I hope that one day you will realize that your good intentions serve only to stifle the road to hell to which Sánchez has condemned Spain and the Spanish and to correct, Mrs Llop, to rectify. I ask you to stop being the broken toy that Pedro Sánchez has become to hide the failure of the President of the Government with the yes, with justice and as President of the Government. Thank you very much, Mrs. Llop. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u149	Thank you. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u150	Thank you, President. Your Honor, you have begun talking about the law guaranteeing sexual freedom, the unwanted effects that that law has produced, a matter really too dramatic to frivolize, as you have done from this rostrum. And your intervention, Your Honor, is a genuine lack of respect for the victims. [[Applauds]] The Group of the European People's Party, again, has crossed the fine line between the opportunist and the opportunist. Of course, of course, I am not the one who denies the right of the parliamentary groups to question the government, but you casually present this inquiry just after I have asked for my own application in the Committee on Justice. To answer this question I take it, logically, as an obligation - it would only be missing - but I believe that in this way, as you have raised, it is a lack of decorum and a lack of respect for the rest of the parliamentary groups, since they have advanced to the appearance through this inquiry, which, moreover, we have already seen that you have spoken about any other subject less than the subject on which I was asked, and in which the Group will only intervene in an absolutely advantageous way. What a coincidence that you recorded this inquiry just after meeting with the Secretaries of Government of the High Courts of Justice last week, and to this we added the meeting that will be held tomorrow with the strike committee in the ministry. The impression you have, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, is that, in addition to a certain lack of respect for the groups in this House with this question prior to my appearance, they are concerned only with their own interests. They are instrumentalizing the strike of the lawyers and lawyers of the Administration of Justice for their own benefit, a partisan benefit. The lawyers of the Administration of Justice do not care about you at all and have never cared about you when you have managed. If they truly disinterestedly support the lawyers' strike, I challenge them to go back to this rostrum and tell them what their true opinion is about the hooking clause. I ask you whether or not the People's Party is in favour of 85 per cent of what the respective judge or judge receives from the lawyers of the Administration of Justice. Do you or do you not agree with this? Tell me. Tell me openly and be honest with the legal corps of the Justice Administration, be honest with the judges and magistrates and, if ever, be honest with yourselves as well. The Ministry of Justice has shown plenty of signs of progress in improving the working conditions of the lawyers of the Administration of Justice - it has fulfilled commitments - and you have not the least decorum in recognizing that the lawyers do not care about anything, that they care very little, and present this inquiry only for their own political revenue. He has said something else which seems very serious to me, concerning the Secretary of State for Justice. He said he called them hitters. The next day, the media that had published those demonstrations rectified and said that he had not called them coups, but strikers. So I hope you will apologize to the Secretary of State for Justice, because it is very serious what you have said; if not, be well aware of what has happened. [[applause]] The commitments we have made from the Ministry of Justice. Royal Decree 241/2022 of 5 April amended the structure of the Ministry of Justice, moving from the sub-directory incardinating the area of lawyers and lawyers of the Administration of Justice to reporting directly to the General Secretariat, directly. We have renewed the exchange of substitute lawyers, something that has been pending for a very long time and in connection with which you only had to go to the Official Gazette of the State to check it out. It's a substantial improvement. We have invested €900,000 in providing all the lawyers with institutional mail and an office suite in the cloud. We have developed, in collaboration with the ICT group of government secretaries, a governance management system for the electronic processing of all its government procedures. We have regularized the convening of their oppositions and made improvements in the formation of the LAJs, including training stays. We've already done all this. And we can also talk about other retributive improvements that we have made in this legislature since I came to the ministry. As regards replacement earnings, a specific plan has been provisionally approved to pay them since 1 June 2022 at an annual cost of EUR 1 647 000, extended during the first half of 2023. Those responsible for the Civil Registry, while the statutory development of the Civil Registry is being carried out, are temporarily paid the amount agreed upon in 2023. This difference exceeds EUR 370,000. A remuneration increase of EUR 206 per month per payroll of the specific complement of the judicial staff in relation to their new functions has been made, representing an increase of 5,26% in their annual salary, with retroactive effects since 1 January 2021, EUR 2430 more per year, and we complied with the agreement with the trade unions of December 2021, which was EUR 195 per month, which have been updated in accordance with the CPI. It is one of the bodies of the Administration that has had the highest pay rise in this legislature. We have improved the remuneration for simultaneous entries and records, because you will know that they charge an extra for those simultaneous entries and records. Thus, with effect from 1 June 2022, the amount of remuneration has been increased from EUR 30 to EUR 110, with an estimated annual cost of EUR 124 000. And to this rise, it is necessary to add 9.5%, which all public officials experienced. The fixed wage increase during the period 2022-2024 is a fixed percentage of 8 %, which can be increased up to a maximum of 9,5 % in the said period according to various variables covered by the revision clause. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we are to have a serious debate, we cannot talk about linear wage increases. Each member of the body of lawyers does not perform the same functions as the body of lawyers. Specialization in jurisdictions and organizationally in judicial offices implies that members of this body are increasingly performing increasingly specific functions. The argument of the increase in functions that the legal profession has assumed since 2009 is not valid, it is wrong to assume that it should be preached in respect of each and every one of the different jobs in which they are destined. First, because it is also forgotten that there has been much progress in freeing them from obligations, such as staying in the courtrooms during the conduct of the trial proceedings, or it has also been simplified and given greater security to their actions through electronic communications and administrative records. Also, because lawyers are increasingly specialized and the increase in functions does not affect all of them in their entirety. The pay debate cannot be honest on the basis of linear increases and even by omitting the significant increases that I have already made manifest here and that are operational; the salaries must be matched to the functions that are actually exercised. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are sensitive to the demands of the lawyers and lawyers of the Administration of Justice. We recognize, logically, that they are an indispensable body in the smooth running of the work of the courts and tribunals - this battery of measures that I have disaggregated - and even having carried out all these measures, we are open to dialogue. Since the ministry, the Secretary General for Innovation and Quality of the Public Service of Justice, Mr Olmedo, has maintained contact with the lawyers of the Administration of Justice in all the judicial offices that he has visited in just under a year that he has held up to twenty-two times; we cannot be accused of not wanting to dialogue with the lawyers. To this we must add the quarterly meetings - in some quarters more than one meeting - with the associations: 7 and 25 April, 15 June, 14 September. But, Your Honor, it is no longer just that this inquiry, as I said at first, is totally opportunistic on your part, and it is not only that you do not truly believe in the demands made by the lawyers and lawyers you pretend to support, that reality is silly and points out that when you were in the government nothing was done - but nothing - by the collective of the LAJs. I can give you an assessment of the efforts made, but you will remain without the slightest credibility in dealing with the issue. I do not want to conclude without paying attention to the second paragraph of your question, concerning the competence of the Ministry on the development of the legal system in civil, criminal, commercial and procedural matters, because here the only thing that must be thanked to you is your refusal to support the Competition Law, a law that protects the productive fabric of our country and that allows companies that are viable not to go directly to liquidation procedures. You have chosen the path of partyism, but you are still in time to support the efficiency laws to which you have referred, laws that are being debated in this House. But, of course, they are ambitious projects, and I believe that you should be placed as a core party of one of the pillars of the state, which is justice; however, you have preferred to be a visceral party, and you have shown this by the intervention you have made from this rostrum a while ago. It should call on them to cooperate and to contribute rigorously to these efficiency laws, because in addition, if these efficiency laws are not passed, they will harm the management of the autonomous communities in which the People's Party governs and which have jurisdiction over justice, such as Galicia, Andalusia or Madrid. Don't you want quality justice? Do you not want an efficient justice, a better service for the citizens of our country? You just want to draw political profit, you are installed in the no to everything, in the no to the advance, in not to give a turn to our administration of justice, which is absolutely obsolete. [[Rumors]] Finally, Your Honor, we need to know whether you are going to prefer to be at last a useful opposition, for once, or whether you are going to put the party before you, causing institutional damage to the functioning of the courts and tribunals, and above all to our justice, by blocking the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u151	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mr. Santamaría Ruiz. [[Mr. Santamaría Ruiz goes up to the rostrum and Mr. Vice President, Rodríguez Gómez de Celis, shares a few words with him]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u152	Minister, you accuse me of frivolizing, you accuse me of being opportunistic. The truth is that I am glad that you already see us as a Government and are dedicated to monitoring the action we are exercising as an opposition; I thank you, because you mean a lot. [[Applauds]] Minister, answer you have answered little and, moreover, if you do so well, you could explain to us why you have the whole ministry pissed off. Mrs Llop, you've missed a magnificent opportunity to show some respect to the victims of the hunk of yes is yes. You haven't noticed, when are you going to understand that the only victims are assaulted girls and boys and vexed women, and not you and your electoral expectations? When will they ask for forgiveness, stop calling it unwanted effects and assume responsibilities? Because the sad reality, Minister, is that you have agreed to change the law of yes is because you have gone into electoral panic, Minister, in electoral panic. You don't need to remember what Secretary of State Pam said. And you replied: in no way can you frivolize, the law is a good law. Mrs. Llop, do you recognize the magistrate who is in the lukewarmness of these statements? Because I do not recognize it and, as I say to you, the victims are not unwanted effects, they are people who have been victims of an atrocious crime, and the only thing they receive from their Government is kicks and disrespect. You who arrived in the Moncloa on the basis of no is no, you will leave the Moncloa on the basis of yes is yes. Madam Minister, I do not find anything if I say, despite your triumphalist speech, that you are not one of the most valued ministers of the Government, but rather the opposite. You came to the Ministry of Justice to use it as a springboard in your career for the presidency of the Madrid Community and we see how it goes. Your only merit, Mrs Llop, was to follow the voice of your master, the voice of Mr Sánchez. He renounced, as he did today after Irene Montero's statements, to defend his comrades...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u153	Your Honor, one moment, please, one second. As I have indicated, I have been flexible enough throughout your first twelve minutes and in more than half of the time you have in this second five-minute intervention, but I ask you to stick, as Article 102 of the Rules of Procedure says, to what you have proposed, which is, Your Honor - a second, please, silence - the legal strike of the Administration of Justice, on which I still believe... [[rumors]] [[Rumors.-Mr. Santamaría Ruiz pronounces words that are not perceived]] Yes, Your Honor, but you're running out of time. I insist, you have had the first twelve minutes and more than half of the five that you have now, so I ask you, please, that, according to Article 102, you stick to the motion for a strike of lawyers by the Justice Administration, as you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u154	Minister, I'm glad that the President of the House puts a cap on you, because I don't see you well. [[Applauds]] It has been you - and this is the management of the Ministry of Justice, for which you are responsible, which is also included in our interpellation-piece highlighted in the process of parasitization of institutions. He did not know how to defend the rule of law, he did not know how to dialogue with the opposition or with trade union organizations, which represent the good workers of the Ministry of Justice, who have never trusted you; he did not get along with professional associations, and it is enough to point out the poor relations he has with judges, prosecutors and lawyers. His political weight is so small that he was never able to find the necessary budget allocations to implement the legislative projects of his ministry. Let me tell you that you will not approve LECRIM, you will not approve the new Organic Statute of the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, you will not approve the law of the right to defence. And since you have drawn up the Competition Law for me, do you know that you have not yet put in place the necessary platform for the registration of the competitions and for the liquidation and that they are not being used even though there is a mandate from Parliament to follow this procedure? But he will certainly not approve his star project, Justice 2030, and if he does, he will not approve it without the necessary budget allocations. It has not been able to contain the disqualifications of the Undersecretary of State, it has not been able to avoid the troupes of Dolores Delgadoal in front of the Attorney General's Office and not of his successor, and it has not even earned the respect of his comrades of Podemos, who accuse you of being the person who fixed the penalties of yes is yes. Worse still, he bends his head every time We can lack respect, in an unworthy and improper example of a minister of the Kingdom of Spain. And I also have to tell you, as I have said, that you have failed to respect this House, in which you have twenty-three appearances pending, and now you tell us that you have requested to appear at your own request. I hope that you will have sufficient time to explain to us the twenty-three questions we have asked you for and that you will not limit our intervention to a mere three minutes. This is the sad balance of his management at the head of the ministry. Mrs. Llop, it's over before Mr. President has to throw you another hood. Minister, you held a certain professional prestige when you occupied the chair of the blue bench; prestige that you and only you have squandered by conforming to the secondary role that Pedro Sánchez has assigned you, and by accepting the tragalas that Sánchez has put you through. Mrs Llop, you have been a bad manager, a bad minister of justice who has turned justice into a ship at a collision rate that only the People's Party can avoid. Make the decisions you think are appropriate, but when you get out of here, know that you will drag more horn than Campo dragged when he granted the pardons. At least Campo was able to be placed in the Constitutional Court. I am very afraid, Mrs Llop, that you are doomed to have coffee in provincial hearings with the defenders of the sexual aggressors who have so much to thank you. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Mariscal Anaya asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u155	To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u156	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, it is clear that since you do not have any argument you have to disqualify and discredit personally. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Ooooh!]] He has no idea of justice. [[Applauds.-Mr.Hispan Iglesias deUssel: The law of the only one is yes!]] He has no idea of the courts and tribunals. I believe this is the first time that the People's Party has a spokesman who has not even studied law. Don't worry, Mr. Married can recommend a university where in three months that will be arranged. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Your Honor, do you know why the Criminal Prosecution Act has not been passed? The The Criminal Prosecution Act has not been passed because it has been pending the report of the General Council of the Judiciary since June last year, before I arrived at the Ministry of Justice, one month before I arrived at the Ministry of Justice. Almost two years remain to be reported, when they have to do so within two months. And why doesn't the General Council of the Judiciary make that report? Because you've got it blocked. [[Applauds]] Because they have blocked our judicial institutions, because it is absolutely unfair for them to take this rostrum and talk about democracy and democratic legitimacy, when they are absolutely delegitimized because they have caused an absolute collapse in the judicial system which, in addition, prevents the appointment of the judges of the Supreme Court, and there have been a number of vacancies that have no precedent in the system. It shows that you don't want to talk about justice. He doesn't like justice! If you don't care about the LAJs. You've just come here to throw mud, to criticize me, to discredit... [[Rumors]] That's what you care about the LAJs, what you care about the LAJs, and that's the meaning of your questioning. Finally, what we have not heard from this rostrum is again the position of the People's Party, and I have already asked it, on the so-called hook clause. Because you also have a responsibility as an opposition. You cannot ask this Government questions that you yourselves do not want to carry out. Be transparent, tell me. What we have not heard is not a single improvement that you undertook when running the Ministry of Justice, nor an improvement by the LAJs. Get up here and tell me. Your lack of credibility is absolute, it is complete in this matter, because you want to demand for others what you have never fulfilled. The ministry I run is in a position to have an honest dialogue with the LAJs, but not you, ladies and gentlemen, who applaud them, pretend that you agree with them and, behind them, are unwilling to apply any improvement. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in no position to lecture anyone. Rather, what they have to explain, and not to me, is not to explain, logically, in this House, but to give it to the lawyers and lawyers of the Administration of Justice, to whom they do support, but with a small mouth, because in the background, their position, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is far from any improvement that can be made in the Administration of Justice, and they demonstrate it every day with their behaviour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u157	Mr. Marshal, tell me?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u158	Thank you, Mr. President. With regard to 72.1, we would like to read a document, because you have called my colleague to order in your speech, and I believe that you do not, unfortunately, know the content of the inquiry and what is the reason why the Minister of Justice is being questioned, which is not only about officials, but also about the state of justice today. I therefore believe that it would be appropriate for the House to know and it would also be important for the Minister to know what is the reason why we have presented this question to the Minister of Justice. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u159	Thank you very much. I'll hand him over, but we know him perfectly well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u160	We continue with the motion of urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, to address the shortcomings in the service provided to citizens by the Social Security Administration. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Ortiz Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u161	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion, as a result of my colleague Elvira Rodríguez's question to Mr Escrivá, talks about social security, talks about the functioning of our country's social security administration, that is, the administration and management of invalidity, widowhood, retirement, self-help, etc. benefits. In short, we talk about the continuity of income for people. As one would say, what we are talking about is not a minor matter. And you have to ask yourself why we have to talk about this. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years as a socialist government, this service has deteriorated its efficiency and quality, thereby undermining citizens' rights. Today, the Social Security Administration is collapsing and has become another problem for citizens and is doing so under a socialist government. It is sad that Mr Escriva's intervention last week in this plenary session was a painful situation. Ladies and gentlemen, for Mr Escrivá there is no problem, everything works perfectly. It must be recognized that Mr. Escriva is a real crack. He thinks he solves everything when wherever he goes, he's generating problems and bumps. One example is Mr Escrivá's disastrous migration management, the failure to process minimum living income or the malfunctioning of the Social Security Administration. That is, the citizen of Zaragoza who had to call the National Police to report that he had been trying for three months to request a prior appointment with Social Security to process his retirement is a liar and has invented everything. The People's Party rules in Vejer City Hall, in my village. I would be unable to be calm knowing that neighbors and neighbors take three months to be cared for. Citizenship wants answers and wants us to take care of it. For Mr Escrivá this is not worrying, and the media in this country lie when they pick up the discomfort of the citizenry when asking for an appointment or a social security procedure. Examples. In Castellón, in December 2022, the press echoed the jams in Social Security. In Salamanca, December 2022, says a newspaper of Salamanca: Interminable waits to be attended to in Social Security. In Álava: Mission impossible to get an appointment in Social Security. In Las Palmas de Gran Canaria: Months waiting to collect the pension and impossible to speak with the social security offices. In my province, in Cadiz, the same. Also in Las Palmas, in January, recently: Days and days trying to get an appointment in an office and the only answer is that there is no availability for the requested service. Or something serious, the closure, without explanation, of offices like that of Betanzos, sending to the neighbors, with a small piece of paper placed in the glass, to La Coruña to perform the procedures. And, according to the transparency portal, the deadline for retirement has increased fivefold in less than two years. Well, socialist ladies and gentlemen, according to your minister, Mr Escriva, whose crystals of his official car prevent him from seeing the reality of this country, all this is a lie. And how did Mr. Escriva defend himself? With attacks on the People's Party government, when we have not been ruling for five years now and, by the way, when there was no such collapse in Social Security. Socialist ladies and gentlemen - I think it is good to remind you - you left us a ruined country with more than 5 million unemployed. Aren't you ashamed to talk about the past? But Mr Escrivá went too far, trying to attack Madrid and Mrs Ayuso. Indeed, from the People's Party we encourage the Socialist Party to continue with this strategy of attacks on Madrid, a community that is being well managed, as was valued by citizens in the last autonomous elections where the Socialist Party was left third political force. Continue with this strategy of insulting Madrid, that Ayuso is on his way - if he would not have it already - to get the absolute majority. But don't think the minister stayed here. It even discredits the Ombudsman himself by saying that the report in which he spoke of an objective and direct breach of the obligation recognized in article 31 of the Spanish Constitution is a lie. When one defends oneself by attacking without recognizing the reality - because the minister did not recognize the reality - that suffers from social security, this is due to two reasons: one, cowardice or, two, to the fact that he knows that he has everything lost. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government knows that it is not going to continue; the Sánchez Government is flattered, it knows that it has lost the next elections and citizens have lost confidence in this government. Only the People's Party offers solutions as a government party that we are, and the first thing we do is recognize that there is a problem in the Social Security Administration. Secondly, as a party of government that we are, we are working on proposals, such as this motion, with which we propose, first of all, to resolve, as the Ombudsman urges, the delays in the granting of appointments from the various social security offices, as well as the lack of availability of face-to-face appointments. Secondly, we propose from the People's Parliamentary Group to comply with the eighth recommendation of the Toledo Pact, which sets for social security an effective and efficient management that responds with agility and comprehensible to the demands of citizens. Thirdly, to transfer the services of citizen care to the Social Security Administration and all public services, as required by the law of customer care services, to private enterprises. And fourthly and lastly, reduce the administrative and bureaucratic burdens that drive citizens away from the instruments of the welfare State to which they are entitled. I'll finish it, President. This Government denied the consequences of the law of yes yes, this Government asserts that the shopping basket has dropped when prices deny it and this Government says that people are served in time and form in Social Security, when reality and citizenship say the opposite. Says the chorus that 'there's no worse blind than the one who doesn't want to see'. From this government is hardly expected, hence the proposals that we put forward from the People's Party and that we trust receive the support of this House...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u162	Mr. Ortiz, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u163	I'll finish it, President. ... for the benefit of the citizenry, who expects us solutions. And there will always be the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u164	Thank you. For the amendments made by your groups, Mr Salvador i Duch is speaking first of all by the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u165	Good morning, President. Good morning, everybody. Firstly, I would like to make it clear that the malfunctioning of social security offices and their poor service to users are not the result of their officials or their workers; let it be clear. The leaders are in the different governments that have governed the Spanish state in recent decades; the leaders are in ten years of governments of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, in which the staff of Social Security has been reduced by more than 21%, in objective data. That figure is barbaric, we believe unacceptable. The People's Party, and only them, is the deplorable state of the service of care for INSS users. Having said that, the diagnosis made by the People's Party - and I hope to agree very little with them - is good; indeed, the service does not work. It's hard to find offices that work well, it's very difficult. But it is also true that they have part of their responsibility and should have recognized it and started by asking for forgiveness for all this lewdness they have had for so many years, when they have been ruling. As Mr Escrivá also says, the malfunction of the current INSS is true, although he forgets that his party also has a great deal of responsibility, and within his party, his Government, the Ministry of Finance, too, not only the Ministry of Social Security. Be that as it may, a week ago, and I give an example, a girl who worked ten days and who was in training could not join the job due to difficulties in the process of being discharged from Social Security. She couldn't or didn't know how to do the online process, and they didn't attend to her face-to-face without a prior appointment. Result: could not be incorporated. To do so telematically you need to have a digital certificate and to have it is not always easy, and that without counting that there are many people, especially of a certain age, who need help to do telematics operations, help that they do not now have. The examples could be many others, but I'm going to give a given. 24% of the subsidies that the City Council of Reus receives from citizens who need support for electronic procedures are from social security procedures, an overload for this municipal service that does not belong to them, and that is another reality. Another contrasted experience is that of the Union of Mothers in Functional Diversity, which informs us of the difficulties of processing child benefits, especially of the children who have reached the age of eighteen and who have remained with the economic benefit limited and without extension for months because of the impossibility of obtaining a face-to-face appointment. This has also had a great impact on single-parent families. In addition, telephones remain collapsed in Social Security, there are no appointments available for weeks and managing a pension can take up to three months. Minister José Luis Escrivá has been recriminated by the Ombudsman; the unions have already called several days of protest to demand more staff and better remuneration; to get an appointment in the Social Security offices to manage a benefit has become a race of obstacles; to get a face-to-face appointment the same. And it's not in a particular office, as I told you. There are complaints in the offices of Montblanc, Tarragona, Montcada and Reixac,Granollers, Barcelona, Mollet, Sant Andreu, Berga, La Bisbal d'Empordà, etc. Or, as a partner told me, maybe it's easier to say which offices work than the other way around. But it is not the worst; the worst are those closed by the pandemic and never reopened, as in the case of Móra d'Ebre, a flagrant case, which gives service to three regions: the Ribera, the Terra Alta and the Priorat. This reality obliges users to travel up to an hour for those regions, to go to the also collapsed offices of Tortosa, Valls or Reus. Very complicated public services in that area and it takes almost an hour by private transport to go, if you're lucky you got an appointment, to another office. The issue - and here goes our amendment - is that there are sufficient resources and social security to deal with the increase in staffing, as well as the remuneration of professionals, and perhaps the problem is in the Ministry of Finance and Mr Escrivá is right. Perhaps because he is right, the audit of Social Security, approved by law at the request of the Republican Parliamentary Group, is not being carried out, which would prove that this problem can be solved immediately. To this end, we have tabled an amendment on which our vote depends, that there is a debt from the State to social security, that there are social security things that are paid in inappropriate expenses and, instead, should be used to pay, for example, the administration of the General Treasury of Social Security or the offices of the INSS. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u166	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mr Senderos Oraá 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u167	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We have been in the legislature for almost three years and, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they will never cease to surprise me, but surprise me for evil, of course. Not only do they not make a single contribution, not a proposal, not an improvement, but they are able to come here to boast of what has deteriorated during their years of government. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the truth is that I don't know how you don't feel ashamed. Let's go in parts. They come to report a situation of collapse in Social Security. They dare to say that it does not provide effective, efficient management and does not respond to the demands of citizens. Really? Are you sure what you're saying? They attack and criticize Social Security and all its professionals, those same employees and public employees who during the years in which you have been ruling - between 2012 and 2018 - have seen how the number of professionals needed to be able to carry out their work was reduced: more than 25% only in personnel. [[Applauds]] Years and years of deterioration and destabilization of all that has to do with the public and with the public services. But in the face of their contempt for the public, the ineffectiveness of their management. Let me explain. First, we have staffed more to manage and care for the citizen: from 2019 to today, more than 10,000 new positions for career and civil servants 1 In his next speech, the Vice-President clarified the error in the name of the spokesman. acting in order to cover all the demands of the citizenry. We are aware that this is not enough, we are aware that more resources are needed, and that is precisely the way in which work is being done from the Pedro Sánchez Government. Last January, 25 000 new places were convened for the entire General Administration of the State because, ladies and gentlemen, strengthening the public is always our priority. They say the Social Security Administration has become a hostile administration. Never before had I seen so much contempt for public employees and employees in such a direct way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, let us be serious, let us be respectful, let us be rigorous. Social security, in a complicated and extreme situation like that which we have experienced in recent years during the pandemic - I remember, with 25% less workers - has maintained the welfare state and has protected businesses and workers; it has protected more than three and a half million workers with ERTEs; it has protected more than one and a half million self-employed with the cessation benefit, and it has put in place the minimum living income. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I tell you once again, respect public employees and respect social security. They reduce to the slightest expression something that, by the way, is fundamental to us. The public administration is the instrument that we have to meet the needs of citizens, of all citizens, but also and mainly of the most vulnerable groups, who are the ones who need Social Security; but that does not interest you. In their motion they are dedicated to discrediting and discrediting. As I was telling you, once again they don't bring anything at all. Are these your priorities? Is this the importance to you of the most vulnerable groups and what more needs they have? This is the difference between your model and ours. For my group, for the Socialist Group, and for my party, for the Socialist Party, it is essential to protect everyone. You're the ones who protect? Only the most privileged. They require quality administration and effective and efficient management of public services when you are not an example of anything; where you govern you are dedicated to dismantling all public services. I'll set the great example for you. My community - yes, Madrid - where they have dedicated themselves to vilifying public health, where they have cut down on health personnel, where they have closed down emergencies and where they have cut down on services. [[applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, citizens are already telling them that no, that public health is being defended. Maybe they don't know, because last Sunday we didn't see them on the streets, but I'll tell them it was a clamor in Madrid, with millions and millions of people demanding a public health, quality, effective and efficient. [[rumors]] [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, less lessons and more protection of the public. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u168	Thank you very much, Mrs. López Somoza. I am sorry for the mistake, but the Socialist Group spokesmen who were going to intervene in the motions had pointed the other way. So I apologize. Mr Sayas López has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u169	Thank you, Mr. President. We have an absolutely collapsed social security system. You have been in the Government of Spain for five years, with a minister dedicated exclusively to social security, and you are called the Social Government. I don't know what part of society you think you have to train citizens' queues at the gates of a public administration to claim your benefits, your rights or do paperwork. I don't know what part of social you see that when people stand in front of a computer they are unable to have an appointment to receive the benefits that are legally theirs. I don't know which part of the social government understands that when someone calls the public administration by phone, they'll have a machine for 20 minutes, and at the end of those 20 minutes, the machine hangs the phone because they don't give it an appointment. Is that what you mean by social government? You are a turtle when it comes to generating rights and accessing benefits. That is true, you are a cheetah when it comes to putting your hand in the portfolio of the Spaniards in order, from Social Security, to charge 220 euros more to the self-employed - of course unlawfully - who will already tell me when they are going to return it. You, at the time of managing the services, are slow as a turtle, but when it comes to putting your hand in the Spanish wallet you are fast. And don't talk about discrediting the officials, attacking the officials, when you have them working saturated, because it's impossible to meet what Social Security requires with the number of officials they have: there are 155 social security offices that have a number of officials that are below those that would be needed. Then you will talk about workers' rights, then you will come to give classes of social benefits, then you will come to tell us that you are a social government, but the truth is that with you there is no one who can access a social benefit either by heaven, by land, or by sea. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u170	Thank you. Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u171	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm tired of listening to the spokesman of the Socialist Party; that is, I'm tired of the roll east of left and right, right and left; this is your fault because you left few officials; we protect the officials, you protect the services... [[Rumors]] I'm going to read you the headline of a canary newspaper today: I ask for an appointment in Gran Canaria with Social Security and I get it in Lanzarote. But what digital investment do we want to make when we don't even understand that Canary Islands - the provinces - are islands, that you can't date someone from Tenerife in El Hierro or someone from Gran Canaria in Lanzarote? This is the story of Fatima Medina, who was going to ask for a benefit to which her children were entitled; she had been trying to get a phone appointment for a month and was given it in Lanzarote. There he was, at the doors of Social Security, saying he'd be back tomorrow to see if he was any luckier. And she wasn't the only one, she was with a lot of people: benefits for children with disabilities, retirement, minimum living income... We listen in this rostrum to improvements in minimum living income. Yeah, all right, compatibility and revaluation. What is the point of all these improvements, with which we fully agree, if those who have to have them do not arrive? A total of 200,000 vital minimum income applications are still outstanding. Mr Escrivá said in the first year that he wanted to reach 850,000; three years later we did not reach 450,000. What's the point, if the people we want to help put us on the road and we don't let them get there or deny them the right and they don't even know how to react because they don't have an accessible administration? We have already said this and not just we; the trade unions say that, says the Ombudsman and the Member of the Communal Assembly. There is a lack of defence for the citizenry and, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the fourth year of the legislature. We have to give up so many "protect the officials" speeches. The officials are overcrowded! 35% of Social Security offices are either on the verge of closure or without attention and the only mechanism you have to reverse this situation is not functional reinforcement, it's the digital. But - and I am done - we are tired of repeating in this rostrum that the digital divide and the lack of face-to-face distance the Administration from those who need it most, from those who are most vulnerable, and that vital rights are violated.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u172	Thank you very much, Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u173	Yes, Mr. President. We talk about social justice and social rights. Socialist Party, left or right parties, I don't care, we talk about people. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u174	Thank you very much, Your Honor. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u175	Egun on. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. Let us see, I believe that there is a general problem of attitude in Spanish politics and in its debate; moreover, in specific areas which refer to articles 41 and 50 of the Constitution and which are particularly sensitive. It is clear that I am not going to claim that there is that kind of implicit agreement in the Toledo Pact that with certain issues relating not only to the pension system, but also to social security in general, there should be some affection or care, taking into account the legal assets under guardianship and the interests of citizens, which are fundamental in this respect to the welfare State. However, it is true that in motions such as the one we are dealing with today or in the interpellation that took place last day, I guess that is not the attitude we are contemplating. The Group of the European People's Party presents to us a motion which, with all due respect, and despite its content, we will not be able to support, but not because we disagree with many of the issues they point out, but precisely because of that attitude and also partly because of its content. In principle, what he proposes is not right or wrong, because the motion is more adjective than substantive, more qualified than concrete, more negative than critical. Thus, if we look at it for a moment, it is no longer necessary to ask to resolve existing delays or more effective management, because delays exist and management needs to be improved. It is true, as has been said so far, that there are some shortcomings, but they need not be resolved with generalities such as those he has mentioned in the end on reducing administrative or bureaucratic burdens. They are obvious, that is applicable to any administrative procedure and any interest. Moreover, it is obvious that they are contained in the Toledo Pact itself, in its eighth recommendation; it is also the fact that it asks for guidelines that, in its view, are to be improved by the Administration, since this debate is more complicated than the mere reference to the customer service law, as if they were comparable areas. That is, it has more depth - but negative in this case - the mention of minimum vital income as an exponent of the system's malfunction. We understand that it is wrong and unfair, as Mr Escrivá pointed out in his reply, who detailed and overshadowed them with data that completely contradict these considerations. We therefore understand that all these references do not at all justify the support they demand for the motion. They do not do so because, in principle, all these proposals are not proposals, but general ones, and they do not refer to content that can be improved with concrete content, such as those that do intend to point out the amendment that the Socialist Group has tabled, although in turn it incurs an incredible contradiction. Addressing an ageing workforce renewal plan, filling the innumerable existing vacancies or urging the Government to invest in electronic resources or training as a formula to facilitate access to different benefits are measures that are already in the hands of the Government's own party and the Government itself. In other words, the same lack of attitude is again observed. Ladies and gentlemen, in the area of social security, in the area of social security benefits, in the area of services to be provided to citizens by the system, the INSS and the whole general social security area, including that of minimum living income - the data provided by Mr Escrivá not only show that it has been effective, but that it has multiplied in many respects; even the data available in the Basque Country point out that the assumption by the Autonomous Communities has been more effective than the provision by the Ministry itself - there is a lack of that attitude necessary to try to provide solutions to the system. Motions like this do not bring them, nor amendments like those that have been proposed. That is why, gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, we are not going to be able to support it. This is not the proposal we need to improve the social security system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u176	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u177	President, ladies and gentlemen, imagine that they want to retire and cannot do so because they do not allow you to go to do the procedure. Imagine that they are on leave and cannot do the procedures because the Social Security that has to pay them the salary does not attend to them. This is happening today in Spain in the 21st century. Social Security has a number of mandated benefits, such as pensions, temporary incapacity, birth or nursing benefits or minimum living income, just to mention a few. Social security is the fundamental pillar of the Spanish welfare state, which derives from the Constitution in a social and democratic state governed by law. The welfare state that so much defends this Government, the social government, the government of the public, the people's government, is not only the existence of these benefits; no, the welfare state is also to have easy access to these when the citizen has the right to receive them. The clearest example is to get something that apparently would seem simple, which is to get an appointment in the Social Security offices. As much as this executive denies it, as much as his lordships of the PSOE deny it, and as much as Minister Escriva pulls buses to travel Spain, the reality is that there is no human way to ask for a prior appointment in Social Security. Mrs. López Somoza denied it here in this rostrum. So, I did the test. I myself went to check it by going to the Social Security website to ask for an appointment. Select the option to search for the first appointment available in the center closest to this postal code, that of the Congress of Deputies, 28014. Do you know what the message on the Social Security page gives me? The 'you come back tomorrow' but from the 21st century. I asked for an appointment to apply for the digital certificate. They tell me, 'Sorry, there's no availability right now. Please check the message on the screen.' He tried with retirement pensions, permanent disability and widowhood. Website reply: 'Sorry, there is no availability at this time. Please check the message on the screen.' I try to do it by birth and breastfeeding: 'Sorry, there is no availability right now. Please check the message on the screen.' Don't leave yet, there's still more. For the star measure, that of minimum vital income: 'Sorry, there is no availability at this time. Please check the message on the screen.' You can take out buses now! It is absolutely impossible today for Social Security to serve me in the nearest centre for any of the benefits. But I said, "Well, I'm going to make an appointment for you to call me. Neither! Quote for phone call: 'Sorry, there is no availability at the moment. Please check the message on the screen.' Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, the service of care for the citizens of social security has collapsed today, once the pandemic has been overcome and without another great exceptional circumstance that it can intercede. We are talking about that any consultation with Social Security has become a real hell for those who need to exercise their rights. He perfectly defined it Honoré de Balzac in the 19th century: 'The bureaucracy is a gigantic machine operated by pygmies'. It is urgent to put an end to this oversized, inefficient, costly and useless administration so that Spanish citizens can exercise their rights. You defend the public, but defend it well. What is the use of a State of welfare, social and law if I cannot exercise my rights? This motion, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group and of the People's Group, is not only relevant but peremptory. I myself have asked the Government, with two questions written in November and January, about this situation of social security collapse and I have not received an answer. The next thing, ladies and gentlemen, is to ask the Government and the Minister for Social Security whether they live outside reality or simply believe that the patience of Spanish citizens is infinite, and I hope they will answer me. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u178	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u179	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are dealing with at this time in plenary is another battle between the PP and the PSOE. Surely, if we analyze it thoroughly - and we will have time -, what we will see is that there is some reason on both sides, but in the end in this battle between PP and PSOE it is the citizen who ends up harmed. It is true that Social Security has been the way to articulate the entire shield during the pandemic as well as that Social Security continues to process millions and millions of retirements, casualties, etc. But it is also true that in recent years it has been seen how the service that is provided to the citizen has gone frankly to worse; to worse as regards the attention in the public administrations of Social Security-and let me also include here SEPE and other public administrations - and people notice it by the bureaucracy, the mistakes in management and the dysfunctions that occur. I'm going to give you some examples to show this. As far as the bureaucratic collapse is concerned, the question of prior quotations has already been reiterated by all. The face-to-face appointment - don't be fooled - often ends up in the hands of office security personnel. Many times it is the office's own security staff who end up answering people to tell them: No, you have to ask for a prior appointment, I already deal with it with the mobile phone. That ends up being done by security personnel, not social security personnel. But the telematic appointment, as pointed out above, is practically an adventure; today it is easier for you to touch the lottery than you can get a previous appointment. And all this, in addition, with a citizen abuse that generates total and absolute defencelessness. These messages that appear on the website of 'no appointments available' or'review' cause the worst defencelessness in which you can leave the citizen, because at least you could be told when these appointments will be available or what provision these appointments should be made. But, of course, if this came out, perhaps it would reveal the reality of the collapse in these previous appointments. Therefore, I think you have to rethink these forms to the extent that at least they give people perspectives on when they will be able to ask for it or what forecast of available dates there will be in the future, because people don't have all the time in the world to be testing every two by three to see if they give you the appointment or not, try again, connect at seven o'clock in the morning or at twelve o'clock in the night to see if then the system is freer or there are appointments available. I believe that this is a reflection that we must put on the table and analyse how this issue is improved. The same is true of the strike of court secretaries, and the same is true of pensions where death or birth is required. The dysfunction in other public administrations in which you also have to ask for a pre-date or make the telematic procedure to get the departure ends up damaging the management of social security benefits. Finally, it is also necessary to point out the palmarial errors. In December 2022 in Catalonia there was a palm error, recognized by the ministry itself, in the management of minimum living income. In January 2023 there was an error throughout Spain in the levying of the quotas of the new system of the autonomous contribution scheme. Therefore, the sum of the bureaucratic burden, the dysfunctions between public administrations and some mismanagement leads, without a doubt, to this feeling of bureaucracy to unsuspected limits and of poor attention to the citizen. Some kind of remedy has to be put here. Is this because it is? No, no, This surely happens because it is true that Social Security manages a lot. It is therefore necessary to highlight the work done, the work done by public employees who do all they can and do more to bring it forward and the reality of a staff in which, in the field of social security, almost 50% will retire in the next decade. These are things that happen because they have not done their duties before and, therefore, as I said to them at first, here neither the PP is entirely right nor the PSOE has everything. The general reflection that needs to be done in this area is that the work done by social security, the benefits and the volume of benefits that they manage and the public employees, who do everything possible to try to get the job out, but also the limitations that exist, the increase in bureaucracy and the defencelessness that has been generated in this area by citizens, who fail to complete successfully - and not even begin - the efforts they want to make in the public administration. For all this, we cannot support the motion, but we do believe that it is necessary for the Government to take note of all the dysfunctions that occur in all this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u180	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-In Communal Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mr Honrubia Hurtado.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u181	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome this kind of consensus that there seems to be in the House on something that, on the other hand, is evidence, that for a public service to function properly, it is necessary, first, to be properly funded and, second, to have a staff with sufficient numbers of workers to be able to respond efficiently to all the needs they have for their competence and for the work associated with their day-to-day lives. It is a pity that that consensus was not ten years ago, because we would probably have saved ourselves from the situation we have reached today. Frankly, I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group what they expected. What did you really expect when you reduced, as has already been said here by different spokesmen, by 20% the Social Security staff or when you set brutal cuts in funding? What did they expect when there was a situation such as that in which, in addition to meeting the benefits that social security already had - many of them - there was a pandemic situation, where new elements were introduced, such as the management of ERTE, the management of minimum living income, the management of aid to the self-employed, etc.? Really, what did they expect? Were you hoping that it would be possible for it to be dealt with effectively and efficiently and that that cut in the staff you made would not pass an invoice on to the management? Well, I think it's really something they couldn't expect, because in any case, that was never their purpose. We all know what you do with public services, with social security, but also with health, with education, etc. You, when you establish policies of cuts and austerity, in the end you do not expect public services to be efficient, but quite the contrary. They hope that public services will deteriorate, that the quality of service will deteriorate and that you will therefore have excuses and arguments to establish your privatization policies, to criticise the management of the public and to do, for example, what you are now trying to do in Andalusia with primary care, which is to charge the consultations between 60 and 150 euros. I tell you in advance not to try, because if you try, the demonstrations that you have seen in Madrid this weekend are going to stay at a meeting of students in the school yard. In short, I believe that the question is simply to compare the figures and data of the oppositions that were convened when you were a government and what has been done with the current government. There is a significant enough data to know what is going on: only in the past year have more places been called than you have called in the field of social security in all the years in which you were a government. You did not manage to call even 1500 places and only this year 2000 places have been called, in addition to the recruitment of interim staff and temporary staff to meet the most urgent demands that are being made on the issues that are being raised here. Indeed, I do not think we can deny them either, because it is true that they are being given in some cases, but I think that at the very least a reflection should be made. I will not tell you to ask forgiveness, as the spokesman for the Republican Left told you, but, at the very least, to reflect on what part of the responsibility you have in the current situation and, above all, whether those austerity and cut-off policies are policies that have gone to the benefit of the whole citizenry and whether you in the future are willing to repeat them again or not. I think it would be important for you to tell citizens that you have learned the lesson, that you agree that applying these policies is against the general interest, against the welfare state and against the enforcement of citizens' rights, and that you will therefore never again implement these kinds of policies. But, of course, they won't say it because they believe exactly the opposite. And I end by saying that not only in the field of social security, but this government in the field of public service and public administration has been implementing a number of measures that were necessary and to which you have opposed in all cases. This government has submitted budgets with replacement rates above 100% for all sectors on a general basis - currently 120 % in priority sectors and 110% in general sectors - which you have consistently voted against. The largest public employment offer in history has been made. Salary increases with an accumulated 15% for civil servants, workers in the public sector, come in the budgets and you have consistently voted against. In the law of reduction of the temporality in the public sector you abstained and then put all kinds of difficulties in those administrations where you govern. Therefore, in the face of your alleged complaints about inefficiency in the functioning of public services, there is the reality of the measures of the Government to which you always object. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u182	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Del Valle Rodríguez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, this social-communist government is leading to the collapse of one of the administrative systems most valued by citizens until not many years ago. We have already mentioned here all the problems that exist to obtain a prior appointment, to contact by telephone, etc. In addition, it has managed to reach agreement with the UGT, Commissions and CSIF unions, which have issued a joint communiqué qualifying the management of the ministry of failure, as well as other qualifications. In particular, the Workers' Commissions have criticized the serious difficulties in accessing the pre-date, with telephones that collapse or often fail to work, and have required the Government to make a special effort to strengthen face-to-face and personalized care. The fact that the Workers' Commissions and UGT criticize this government means that they are making it fatal, because in very serious circumstances they have been unable to go out on the street, but with this issue they have made concentrations at the doors of the offices of Social Security. We are drawn to attention because in recent times the only time they went out to the street was when they were pocketed by the Government of Castile and León, when they reduced their subsidies; there they did go out to the street. [[Applauds]] Therefore, if they are criticizing the Government for this mismanagement, if they are concentrating on the doors of the Social Security offices with these demands, it means that the Government is making it fatal and that they have had to leave because they had no choice, because the workers were already saying to them: But listen, do you not represent, do you really represent us? The Ombudsman has twice in the past year requested the Government to speed up management in this area as well. In particular, it has come to say that article 103.1 of the Constitution is being violated, which states that the Administration must serve the general interests objectively and act in accordance with the principle of effectiveness in the performance of its work. The Ombudsman warning the Government that there is a flagrant breach of the Constitution! Of everything that has been said here about the work of public employees, my parliamentary group wants to acknowledge the effort and dedication that the public employees of Social Security are doing, because, moreover, as the Minister said last week in replying to the questioner of the People's Group - an inquiry from which this motion derives - they are officials who are not well paid. The minister said that if we compare them with those of the Ministry of Finance, with the workload and income generated by Social Security, it turns out that they are very poorly paid, and if we compare them with officials of other public administrations - in particular, of autonomous communities - they are very poorly paid. Indeed, if we compare them, they are underpaid, but this Government is going to be doing five years of executive work. It is that in five years they could have made a reform of employment relations, changed levels, changed specific complements, encouraged them, adequately remunerated them and created new jobs, if necessary. They could have already conducted selective tests for access to these places. Now the minister says that, as they are underpaid, no one wants to come because they have a lot of work, but they have been able to fix it in five years. [[Applauds]] I remember that in 1984 the Law 30/1984 on Urgent Measures for the Reform of the Civil Service was enacted, where the management body was created - and the socialists were also ruling - and it turns out that in 1985 the management posts were already created, in 1986 the first public offer of access to the management body of the General Administration of the State was resolved and in 1987 the majority of the autonomous communities had already resolved it as well. In three years we had management staff all over Spain, and here in five years they have been unable to provide a solution. In conclusion, Mr President. Only with VOX is there hope that Social Security will provide good service to all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u184	Mr Ortiz Galván, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u185	The vote will take place on the terms in which we have tabled the motion, and the amendments are not accepted.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u186	Thank you very much. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on policies to be imposed by the Government to ensure that all Spaniards can access water in equal conditions throughout the national territory. [[File number 173/000193]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u187	We continue with the motion of urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the policies that the Government is going to push to ensure that all Spaniards can access water on equal terms throughout the national territory. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members of Parliament, Spaniards who listen to us from home will have heard on many occasions that water is life. And what cannot be explained is why, if water is life, the Socialist Workers Party, supposedly Spanish, is committed to removing water and life from a very important part of the Spanish; it cannot be understood. [[Applauds]] There is no rational explanation that justifies the decision of the PSOE and Podemos, of the coalition government to close the tap to the Spaniards of the uprising; it cannot be explained. And acting against the interests of the Spaniards is very bad, and, as parties, you two should be ashamed of yourselves. But what is even worse is hypocrisy, lying and not wanting to face and assume the responsibilities of the facts. How can it be that socialist parliamentarians from Murcia and Alicante, without a hint of shame, will present themselves at the last demonstration for water held in Madrid? How can that be? How can the Murtian, Alicante, Socialist and Puemite deputies who sit in those seats stand before their constituents and, looking at them in their eyes, tell them that there is reason for them not to have water? What's the justification? Please, come up here and expose. We are eager to be able to understand his crime. We are eager to believe that behind these hypocrisy facades there are people who care about their fellow citizens. I wish! But the truth is, they don't give us a single explanation. So much so, that the Minister of Ecological Transition came up here last week with a bad school teacher speech trying to give lessons. He was unable to give either one intelligible explanation or one. Why? Because they don't have it, because the only reason you want the Spanish countryside to stop working, the only explanation is one thing the minister said, and it is that in their heads, incomprehensible and, of course, selfish, they consider that in Spain it is consumed too much. And since you consider that in Spain it is consumed too much, your goal is to decrease. According to you, Spain and the West-but in our case, Spain - they cannot continue to grow at the pace they are doing. Therefore, its objective - which is not really its own, is imposed by the 2030 Agenda - is for Spain and Europe to decrease and, however, to grow elsewhere, because they are with this conception that growth cannot be constant - it is a somewhat doctrinal issue, which we could elaborate more -. And that's why you, Socialist Party and Podemos, want to close the Spanish countryside. And yet, it is watering with subsidies to the Moroccan countryside. [[Applauds]] That is why you are promoting olive cultivation in Morocco. What do the members of the Socialist Party think of this? Please, voters of Jaén, when socialist deputies approach, socialist councillors campaign in your province, ask him; and let's see if there is any kind of explanation. We all know that there is also a tremendous plot of corruption in the European Parliament: Morocco is not very well known for what by accumulating the Socialists with pasta. Maybe it's for this. Is it also possible that the Socialist Party wants to close the water from the interconnection of the basins to replace it? Why? What's the replacement going to be? Ah, yes, the water of the desalinators!Who collected millionaire bribes for the installation of the desalinators in Spain? Who was it? Ah, the Socialist Party! Oh, by chance! [[Applauds]] Does this have anything to do with it? We do not know, but, as we have a very close election date, the Spaniards will have the option of asking you, and also the option of deciding, which is precisely what we are asking in this motion today, to allow the Spaniards to decide. Ask the Spaniards whether their policy of drought, death and production reduction is what they want or whether, on the contrary, the Spaniards want a green Spain, an agricultural Spain, a Spain in which there is work, a Spain, like Murcia, which has prospered. Thanks to what? To what? [[Shows a document.-Laughter]] The interconnection of the basins and the exploitation of water resources by all Spaniards.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u189	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u190	Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u191	Thank you so much. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr López-Bas Valero is speaking on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u192	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Go ahead that in Citizens we have always bet, bet and bet on a national plan of water - or, as we have always said in our electoral programs, a state pact for water -, a plan that we understand is fundamental for the management of a good of public domain that is of all, that must be achieved through the agreement and consensus of all, from dialogue, but above all from scientific and technical evidence. That is why we have amended the motion of the VOX Parliamentary Group, so that the management of the hydraulic public domain in Spain is actually done through a state pact or a national plan, as you call it. But we want it to be a real plan, a serious plan and consistent with the means and resources available and the objectives to be achieved, because we agree that there is water for everyone in Spain and there must be water for everyone in this country, although for that we have to assess precisely and in advance what we want and how to achieve it in the most efficient way. And yes, it will have to be with the interconnection of basins, it will have to be, for example, with the Tajo-Segura transfer, that this Government has undertaken to carry out, but it will also have to be with all those resources and means that this technical evaluation gives us, from the dialogue between territories. That is why, Mr Figaredo, one of the most rabid issues that gives us - as I say as an Alicante - is that we are constantly involved in this war on water between citizens and between territories. We will have to find a solution with all the mechanisms that are possible, but, of course, applying the socio-economic and environmental constraints that need to be observed. We agree with your motion that equal access to water for all Spaniards is necessary and enforceable. And we share it in essence with our amendment, because it is already right - I repeat - to use water as an electoral weapon, whether from the right or the left, as used and in which territories. And that is why we believe that you should not play the same game as the People's Party and the Socialist Party have played all these years. Do not do so, because the citizens of Alicante, Murcia, Almería but also Castile-La Mancha or Aragón are more than tired of being played with them with lies and manipulations. And somehow you have also played the negationism of scientific evidence when the other day you were telling us about the causes of the pollution of the Sea Minor in Murcia. They sometimes play populism by biasedly resorting to referendums, as they do at the first point of their motion, as if in this country they did not vote, as if the parties did not present their proposals to the citizens and the citizens did not express themselves freely when they had to do so. That model of referendum for everything that you now intend to propose seems absurd to us. And what's your model? The one about the Brexit referendum in the UK? The model of the referendum in Switzerland, a country that, as my colleague Edmundo Bal recalled the other day, had to save up to 2002 different referendums in order to be able to join the UN or in which women could not vote until 1971, or even until 1990 in the last federal canton of that country, because this was prevented by successive referendums that were being held? Beware of certain tools that are understood to be democratic but then manipulated very skillfully precisely for the benefit of minorities. You are also talking about food sovereignty, calling for measures against agriculture in other countries but forgetting what would happen if the countries to which we export our agricultural production took the same measures. Explain to us what our agri-food sector would do if it stopped exporting, as it did in 2021, worth more than €60 billion. That, playing demagogy, is like when you say in your motion that by extending the irrigation surface to six million hectares, eighteen million jobs would be generated. Not only would you solve the problems for the three million that we already have today, but you would give jobs to fifteen million more people. And I do not think that you are proposing that we bring in 15 million immigrants, because it does not seem to be the solution you like, nor that you are thinking of forcing the Spaniards to return to the countryside in a red Khmer plan, to Cambodia. See? It's easy to demagogue with these kinds of issues, and that's something we're sick of, especially in southeastern Spain, because the two big parties have done it. Yes to a national water pact, yes to a state pact, but on water use in a coherent and reasonable way, on the basis of dialogue and consensus and technical evidence; not from a partisan point of view and, above all and curiously, when it always appears in the pre-election period. Stop referendums and strange food sovereignty and we are going to do things right: that is why they have our amendment there. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u193	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Requena Ruiz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the motion resulting from an urgent call for the third vice-president to be called on last week for one of the many tasks entrusted to her, which are not very few: energy, biodiversity, forests, demographic challenge, coasts, climate change, just transition, marine environment and water. And I say that there are not a few of Mrs. Teresa Ribera's tasks because, referring to the Spanish saying, which very much covers little pressure. Therefore, taking as a starting point last week's shameful intervention of the third vice-president, summarized in an unnecessary attack on Murcia, Andalusia, Madrid, its Government and its farmers, which does what it does to cover its legislative and executive shortcomings - which it easily uses and already has us accustomed to, empty words and lack of concreteness and solutions -, we are talking about water today, and the People's Party has tabled an amendment so that Spain has a national water pact that arises from dialogue with civil society, the sectors concerned, all the autonomous communities and includes priority investments in sanitation, regulation, supply, improvement of water resources, saving and efficiency in the control of floods, guarantees of water resources for irrigation, ultimately a plan that emerges from social, political and economic consensus. But, ladies and gentlemen, leaving aside VOX's suggestion in this motion that of the entire Spanish working population eighteen million people should be devoted to agriculture, or leaving aside that, when the People's Party asks for more funds and brings proposals on watering to this Parliament, VOX does not vote for the regents to find improvements simply because they are put forward by the People's Party, we cannot ignore today that the water management of this government is the faithful reflection of the management that the Vice-President third of all that touches: chaos, sectarianism, inefficiency, bubbles and fake news. This is the self-proclaimed Government of renewables, but the reality is that in the last four years the increase in renewable auctions is due to the 8736 megawatts of the People's Party, which contrast with the ridiculous 45 megawatts of the last auction of 22 November. [[Applauds]] This is the government that is proclaiming itself to fight climate change, but the reality is that in January it has started to multiply gas purchases to Russia by three times over last year. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE and Podemos, they have helped Russia more than Ukraine: 400 million euros this month and 5.5 billion euros since the war began. This is the government that is self-proclaimed by the social majority, but, according to the latest report on energy poverty, the number of people who cannot keep their housing at an adequate temperature or the number of late bills has increased since you ruled. It is a government that claims to impose taxes on the rich, but the reality is that it is the first government of the European Union that imposes a plastic tax on basic foods, such as oil, milk, frozen or bottled water. [[Applauds]] Who do you think those taxes are for the rich? Self-proclaimed advocates of water, water resources and the protection of storm systems, but the fact is that they have not made the payment of even one PART help of the integral water cycle. They have allowed the emptying of swamps, voted against the promotion of reversible pumping, closed or demolished twenty-two hydroelectric plants, accusing farmers of watering illegally. Even the Council of State tells the third vice-president that the coordination of watershed hydrological plans is a disaster. Even, the National Water Council says that agreements with the Ministry of Agriculture are not respected to invest and finance irrigation infrastructure with a saving of 3% of water. Presumably from the CPI, but they've had to do an endless amount of cambalaches to change the calculation methodology. And the most shameful thing is that you are now going to incorporate the free market bill but tell the traders not to include the shameful cost of the Iberian exception; that does not include the abusive increase of the gas cap, of the Iberian thyme, on which we already know that we have paid six billion euros burning gas, mainly Russian, to save a minority percentage of the population 1800 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality of the left. They have had to issue a manual to encourage their public offices and make their measures more digestible, because the Government does not rely on the capacity of socialist public offices to commulgate with millstones; a faith manual to hide that 520 sex offenders have benefited from this Government; a faith manual to correct the bubble of the third vice president, who last week said that the Water PART was €5 billion, when in her faith manual it is said that it is 1940 million; it has not even been read. [[shows a document]] This is the summary of Mrs Ribera's ministry. There's no one who believes anything that counts. Neither do you yourselves, if you are not educated, believe your own tales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u195	Thank you. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. Once again the very serious problem of water is being debated in this House, and once again it must be the opposition that promotes solutions, in view of the government's inability to put forward measures that take it rather than take it long, even sharpening territorial confrontations. Only by looking at the up-to-date data on the capacity of our reservoirs is the concern about this issue and the presentation of this initiative by the VOX Parliamentary Group more than justified. Today the Spanish reservoirs accumulate 28,401 cubic hectometers of water, equivalent to 50.65% of their total capacity, that is, a worrying percentage that augurs, except for profound changes in spring weather, a year 2023 severe and severe water difficulties. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of hydraulic policy, in these three years of the XIV Legislature, water management in Spain has retreated sharply. The National Plan for Purification, Sanitation, Efficiency, Savings and Reuse approved in 2021 is largely another multicolored literary piece, which has not given efficient answers to a matter that requires less administrative imposition and more political agreement. Listening last week to Mrs Rivera in her open response to the inquiry, it is perfectly clear that the opportunity to work on a state water pact has been wasted, an offer which also started from the opposition and which has been ignored by Mr Sánchez, being water a public domain good. The easy thing has been to irresponsibly disagree on an issue which in itself is a matter of the utmost order. However, the Government has sent it out from good to good, avoiding the transfer of water as a topic that affects the national security, the economy of Spain and the well-being of our families. Over the past few years, no progress has been made in the implementation of solutions, and millions of Spaniards are considered mocked by a talk that threatens their livelihood in the face of the persistent scarcity of water resources in much of the territory and the absence of proposals for a solution. Ladies and gentlemen, the inadequate measures taken by the Government for sustainable water management have again been highlighted in 2022. The situation has become much worse because farmers, the communities of regents, the whole of the primary sector and, ultimately, all those who look to the sky every day for clouds and rain, all those who follow with vital interest the weather forecast have added to their daily concern for the scarcity of water the impacts of inflation, the shortage of fuels, the devouring taxation and, as a result, the impossibility of benefiting from support measures, which, however, they have received and for which they have chosen other socio-economic sectors. Bureaucracy through and asphyxiating, it has meant a tremendous injustice that the EUR 140 billion of the European Union's resilience plan has barely had agricultural holdings benefited. However, the administrative and budgetary machinery of the Government has also not allocated them to the planning and creation of new infrastructures to build and modernise pipelines that will allow the communication of surplus basins with deficit basins. That is what common sense dictates, and that is what those countries that have territories do that desert because of the lack of water and the abandonment of the countryside and the rural environment. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the content of the VOX motion, a public consultation on the elaboration of a national water plan, as set out in the first of the points, was deemed unnecessary. There is no need to ask in public consultation about an issue where there is a very high level of concern. This is a matter on which massive support for the implementation of measures must be assured. What is a priority is to have a system of water supplies that connects all the basins and allows water to be brought to all Spaniards, especially those who historically suffer from droughts. Let us remember that the recently completed 2021-2022 hydrological period has been the third driest since records have been kept in the last sixty-one years, which should translate into investments to give budgetary and investor response to what the State Meteorological Agency has already defined as an incipient long-term drought. He asked the spokesman for the VOX Group to consider incorporating a compromise amendment with the amendments proposed by other groups. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u197	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u198	Egun on. Mr Figaredo, the truth is that I believe that what you have done today has been an irrational, disproportionate speech and I would even say that very theatrical. I think that, at least, most of us today should agree that a hydrological plan is the water planning document whose objective is nothing but to achieve good water condition and management, in accordance with the objectives set by the European directives. And we can only show that, as a result of climate change, we are increasingly witnessing and facing major episodes of flooding, perhaps the most intense of the last decades. In addition, a certain concern for drought is already spreading in our environment, which is also beginning to affect us in those supply systems that are still poorly regulated. All this reminds us of the need for adequate water planning on water management to achieve water safety and security of supply, and also with sustainability criteria. That being said and having read the motion, I can only disagree with what they say. First of all, I understand that we are in the campaign and that they bring us a simple motion, which is nothing but an initiative on their electoral agenda, and, look, to spend more water, yes, and the truth is that we cannot aspire to spend more water because there is no water and there is no water, because climate change is reducing rainfall, so we believe that water is too valuable a resource, which must be managed with caution. They bring a motion as if there was no plan here, but, in fact, there is and what happens that they don't like. It is true that some have said that these plans have taken into account the interests of the interior areas through technical negotiating work, but they also say that the rules of the transfer should be changed as soon as possible so that their management can be adjusted as soon as possible, despite the fact that the rules are leaving a period of 12 months for this. There is a hydrological planning until 2027 to fulfill what Europe says, and also with different investments in the different demarcations. Entering the motion, you tell us about a popular consultation, a referendum. By the way, the second they ask for; first, for energy issues and now for water resources. It seems that you are the adalides of democracy, but no, because the truth is that you are advocating referendums for certain things, but not for others. This is a proposal that at this point is ineffective, because, as I have said, there is already planning, and it is a measure that also tries to shift this from consultation and responsibility for decision-making to another field, outside the Legislative. Perhaps what they should do is a referendum in those municipalities where they propose that they carry out these transfers to other autonomous communities. But you also talk about consultation, but, in a row, on the second point we are told that a national plan must be made. Then why do they propose a consultation, if they won't take it into account? And if that consultation doesn't come out, where are the other measures that you are proposing? Nowhere. Finally, you talk about manna, and I say this because you simply believe that by having a national water plan you are going to guarantee or protect jobs and food sovereignty. How optimistic! In conclusion, they should be consistent and, if they really have a plan, at least concrete what it will consist of. And, by the way, they tell us where there is plenty of water, which is perhaps in Castile and León. Or perhaps they already have a plan to transfer water from those communities where they govern others who really need it and could give us an example. Premises, nothing more on your motion. After ten sheets of motivations, we do not find any concrete measures, nor do they even speak or collect measures, for example, for more and more investments in technology because the reserves go away, or even speak of education or pedagogy to save and be much more efficient. Thinking about how much water we have, where and how to spend it, there's nothing concrete about that. Look, it's true that we're in the middle of an election, but don't really fool people with proposals that don't go anywhere, proposals that are out of reality and people's needs. And, worst of all, you also know this and today you pose this because you believe that water, and more specifically irrigation, is a political weapon to get the rural vote. Pure demagogy and pure theater what we have seen today. Nothing more. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u199	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. New chapter of VOX's election program, which recycles it and turns it into a motion here in this room. But allow me to address the socialist bench before going to the right. Frankly, I believe that in recent days there has been a clumsiness on the part of the Government with regard to the issue of water, and I refer to unilaterally breaking the agreement of the National Water Board that guarantees the transfer of Tajo-Segura. And I say clumsy because, in the end, it's these gentlemen and ladies who take over and make motions like this. Honestly, the farmers of southern Alicante, Vega Baja del Segura, Murcia or Almería are especially unhappy, the Valencians are especially dissatisfied with clumsy decisions that the only thing they do is stir up sterile wars that take advantage of the right and with contempt for Valencian interests. All this, in the end gives wings to the right and the right. And here we have Mr Figaredo or gentlemen such as Abascal or Espinosa de los Monteros, who have not seen a breakthrough in their bloody lives and now appear as defenders of the interests of farmers. [[Mr. Figaredo Álvarez-Sala: How do you know I haven't seen a beat?]] Look, on water issues, Compromís has it very clear. Both PP and VOX - and we already saw it with the Valencian PP in those infamous and black years that ruled my land - their motto 'water for all' was to do pharaonic works to benefit the builders who then passed through the B box of the People's Party and deposit their donations. It was for that reason that they were only interested in the water war to which, for a long time, the People's Party submitted to the Valencians. It served for sinister characters supported by the People's Party, such as Andrés Martínez, president of the Community of Regents of Villena, who was a lord who led the demands of the transfers of the Ebro and the Xúquer, the Jucar, to get water from Alicante, what he really wanted to do, and tried to do, was to sell water from his own community of regents to the multinational Danone at a price of gold and then to receive water from other basins to serve him for his war; or to process land reclassifications to build those glorious golf courses that the PP was watering over where he was, and continues to water, and 1200 homes. Farmers are not interested in the right and the right. What really interests them is the builders. They're really interested in those. And you Socialist Party sometimes leave it on a tray. No, no, Neither VOX nor PP are farmers' solutions. The main problem for farmers is called fair prices. And there, if the right and the right have to choose, never doubt. They always line up with the lords, be these lords the landlords or be these lords of the great distribution. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u201	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u202	Thank you very much, President. Let me say, Mr Figaredo, that the other day I was really ashamed of someone else with your speech. The story, the story that he really explained to us, was of a frailty and a frightening demagogy, and it really showed a nil knowledge of how hydrological subsystems work. [[Mr. Figaredo-Álvarez Sala shows the document entitled Spain Decides]] Whether by ignorance or bad faith, or by both, you defend an already very old model of hydrological management based on transfers, forgiveness, now called basin interconnection. A model that, with the failure in the management of the Tajo-Segura transfer, is today valued as ineffective and obsolete and that the only thing that generates is territorial confrontation. We see him here. Perhaps that is what you are pursuing, territorial confrontation. In your simplistic and demagogic speech of the past few weeks, you defended the interconnection of basins because we are throwing water into the sea. That's what we heard, amazing too! Throwing water into the sea. And you followed: because there are surplus basins like that of the Ebro, which throw it away. Here I see that your electoral expectations in Aragon and Catalonia are null and void. A surplus basin that today, precisely with the drought that we have been dragging, cannot even guarantee the water supply for this summer; finally. And the proposal they put forward is to eliminate environmental flows, an invention of ecologicalism, as I said, to give it to the agricultural sector. And as we say in Catalonia: go here a go, go here a cat, this count is over. You know that ecological flows ensure good water quality, and this is a European requirement of the Water Framework Directive. Do you know what happens if we don't guarantee proper flow rates? Precisely, in the low stretch of the Ebro, these flows allow the survival of the Delta de l'Ebre, allow the control of salinization, allow the transport of sediments or the regeneration of the coasts, and also allow the guarantee of water for the agricultural sector of the delta, the rice groves, or is it that the rice groves are not agricultural sector, sir? [[Applauds]] No, no, they're just Catalans, aren't they? See if it is important the environmental flow, that its lack worsens situations like that of the Sea Minor - anoxia -, there they do have a huge problem precisely because of the lack of guarantees of an ecological flow. You'd have to study it thoroughly. And we should focus more on mismanagement or overexploitation. Even, much has been said about the problem of illegal irrigation that eventually causes the disappearance of natural reserves such as Tables of Daimiel and Doñana. We don't talk about this either. Another factor you intentionally omit is the effects that climate change is going to have on hydrological systems. Already in 2019, and I refer to the conclusions of the Sub-Commission on Water and Climate Change, according to the CEDEX studies of the moment, the forecasts present a not very optimistic scenario of water stress. With increased temperatures, evapotranspiration of plant masses will grow, generating a recession of runoff and an increase in irrigation requirements. For the Mediterranean arc, a recessional trend of precipitation is expected. A reduction in average flows from 2010 to the end of the century of the order of 24 %, which can reach between 30 and 40 % in the most sensitive areas - precisely the Levante area is a sensitive area - is predicted, while the infiltration that feeds the aquifers will decrease by 27 % on the end of the century horizon. Finally, an increase in climate variability and Mediterranean rainfall is expected, with a significant alteration of the temporal and spatial patterns of rain, with a strong increase in drought risks, which will be more frequent, long and intense, and more frequent floods and increases and higher maximum flows. Does this scenario ring a bell? It's the one we're living now; we're talking about a few years ago, five years ago. Precisely, the main conclusion reached by the Sub-Commission is that the increase in water stress will force us to change the current models of water management and governance, in many cases unworkable, exhausted and obsolete. This is reality, whether we like it or not. What makes no sense today, and is irresponsible, is to use the water debate as an electoral resource and as a basis for a populist and confrontational discourse. This is unforgivable. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u203	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comú, I have the floor Mr López de Uralde Garmendia.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u204	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Figaredo, you come here to make a mockery of all of us, without preparing your motion and, of course, with an absolute lack of data. You have brought us some proposals that are old, that are obsolete, because you have not even updated the data, that are insolidary, against your words, because ultimately what you do is face some territories with others. It has already been said here, you have made an electoral proposal, for your electorate in Murcia, without taking into account that Spain is a large and diverse country and, therefore, creating confrontation between regions; they are also anti-ecological, because you charge yourself with a pen in your motion the ecological flow. The data must be worked out a little bit to see what is the situation in which we are currently living. The last report on the flows of our rivers is a truly alarming CEDEX report, which you do not take into account, and which talks about, for example, that the flow of the Tagus - and this is the year 2007 - between 1940 and 2007 has been reduced by 14,4 %; that of the Duel, by 15 %; of course, that of the Secure, by 38 %, and so on. Do you know what this flow reduction is all about? It is because the temperature in our country is rising. Increased temperatures lead to increased evaporation and evapotranspiration. It is not so much a change in the rainfall regime as an increase in evaporation and evapotranspiration, which causes the flow to be reduced, that the water that reaches the rivers is less and less. You in your motion talk about climate fanaticism. Can you explain to me why this increase in temperatures causes flow rates to be reduced, please? What's the reason? Because these are objective data; this is neither fanaticism nor religion. [[Show a document]] These are data. Yes, indeed, the flow reduction is due to climate change, and king tie it with data, don't come here to yell at us and talk to us about climate religion. Because you say that it defends the rural world, but it is that the documents of the agricultural unions talk about that climate change is already generating in our field, in the Spanish field, that which you claim to defend but that in reality with your proposals the only thing you do is harm, a damage of 500 million each year and increasing. But, of course, you too are carrying the ecological flow, which, by the way, I would remind you that the ecological flow is a mandate of the European Union for the rivers to stay alive. You charge it with a pen, you don't care about anything; as you don't care about the state of our ecosystems. Look how Doñana is, precisely because of the misuse of groundwater, the illegal irrigation that you intend to legalize in Andalusia. Or look at the Mar Menor itself in Murcia, precisely because of the farming practices that you are promoting. Your Honor, on new infrastructures, let me remind you that Spain is a country that has more than 1400 dams built, it is the European country that has the most regulated rivers and 6% of our territory is already under water. Our rivers do not allow more prey, no more prey, ladies and gentlemen, leave the old recipes; we have a serious problem, we have less and less water and that is what we have to face, and we have to deal with it with new recipes. We must look at the problem; we must look at climate change and see how water scarcity is solved. What you do is more water, more water, more water; there is no, Your Honor, there is no. And it is not a problem of the Social Communist Government, or as you wish to call it; it is not a problem of the green; it is not a problem of Europe; it is not a problem of global conspiracy; it is a problem of climate change; it is a problem of less rain and worse rain. In addition, increasing temperatures increases evaporation and evapotranspiration. Do you understand? It's pretty simple. [[Applauds]] Finally, read a little and prepare, please, the motions, because you cannot talk about water without taking into account the data, which are official data, which are data from CEDEX, are data from the confederations themselves, which are not suspected of Bolsheviks. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion is nonsense, in line with all yours, contrary to science and which I believe should be withdrawn. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Lopez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Senderos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u206	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating a motion following an inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group to guarantee water to all Spaniards, which is very curious to us, because if we have one thing clear, it is that with VOX policies little or nothing can be guaranteed to anyone. [[Applauds]] This is not about ideology, this is about education, but about primary, and common sense, a lot of common sense. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know the importance of water for life, a scarce and precious good that nature puts at our service and that we must preserve and preserve, because without water there is no life. For this reason, the entire water cycle has to be developed with the greatest efficiency, avoiding contamination of water, soil and air. But you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, make a rather strange defense and bet on how to guarantee water to the Spanish and Spanish. Is overexploiting aquifers, allowing illegal catches, such as in Doñana, or what is happening in the Minor Sea, a good management model? Does that sound like a good management model to you? Because that is an attack on our natural heritage, no more or less. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX - relax - if you really care about the countryside and the primary sector, what you have to do is to end your climate negationism and start fighting its consequences. [[Applauds]] This is the best way to help our countryside and our farmers; the rest I tell. Fortunately - and fortunately - this Government is very clear: its main objective is to guarantee water to all the territories and citizens of this country, betting on the digitization and modernization of the entire water cycle; for the circularity and reuse of water; introducing a new culture of water and its use, as well as a new culture of irrigation, preparing us for drought and flooding scenarios; investments in renewables to reduce the energy cost; and maintaining the commitment to making waste water affordable for all. And all through the PART of the water. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we already know that you do not see the European Union very well, but this government complies with the Union's environmental rules and its Water Framework Directive. [[Applauds]] That is why you, who are cataloguing the ecological flow of invention, I invite you to read in detail, if you have time, Directive 2060 of European legislation, a directive that was put in place precisely to preserve and protect our ecosystems from policies that are as good as yours and those of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of VOX - as it could not be otherwise, in this it also boasts the hand - stop facing the territories, stop facing agriculture with the environment, because there is no agriculture without the environment and there is no environment without agriculture, so please stop facing them only for partisan and electoral interests. [[Applauds]] Making this effort is worth it, of course it is worth it. Conserving, preserving and improving the water quality of rivers, as well as promoting their adaptation to climate change, will have a positive impact on our field and, therefore, on our own quality of life, because this is the only way to guarantee water for everyone in our country. That is why this Government will continue to work day by day to guarantee water to all territories and to all citizens, because for the socialists, for the progressives, water is and must remain an element of cohesion and vertebration and not a weapon of confrontation and division as the right and the extreme right claim in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, don't play with water like that, because water doesn't play. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u207	Thank you. Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u208	No, no, We shall call for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-15-CD230215.u209	All right. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended. It was one and twenty-five minutes in the afternoon.
