ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. We begin with the amendments adopted by the Senate to the Organic Bill amending Organic Law 2/2010 of 3 March 2010 on sexual and reproductive health and the voluntary termination of pregnancy. I would remind you that the amendments to this initiative will be voted on after this debate. Mr García Adanero has the floor, first of all, for the Joint Parliamentary Group to fix positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Whenever we discuss issues like this one of abortion that we have today, I draw attention to the satisfaction and joy with which some parties receive such a debate and then the applause that comes at the end. [[Rumors]] We think that abortion is a failure, we do not understand that kind of algarabía, especially considering that this contributes to considering abortion as another contraceptive means, which I think is one of the problems that this situation has. It has to be said that in Spain, at the moment, there are about 90 000 abortions per year, more or less, and that is obviously part of thinking, as I say, that it is a more contraceptive method. Abortion is not a cause for joy and cannot be generalized, but the vast majority of women who abort are faced with a complicated situation. And we have to focus there, because in the end in no case should we allow public administrations... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Public administrations cannot admit that any woman is in the position to abort because of economic problems, because she sees it as a serious problem, because she is afraid of losing her job - which also happens - or because of fear and because of threats from her own partner. These are very real cases, which usually exist, and public administrations should ensure the well-being of these women and not contribute, in this case, to the easiest situation for the administration, rather than for women, and it is to bring or condemn them to the obligation to abort. Then, those who are in favour of defending life are often accused of wanting to impose morals, etc. Obviously, it is not the case, it is not a question of imposing anything on anyone, everyone can do whatever they want, but what we do have to say is that it seems striking and it does not seem to me the most normal or the most appropriate - even I think it can become a barbarity - to be decided by votes, by majority, when there is life or when there is no life. [[Applauds]] If a majority decides that from the fourteen weeks we are talking about life, because that will have been decided, or that there will be no life, or that until that moment life can be ended. It can be fourteen weeks, it can be five months, it can be nine months, it can be a year or once a person has been born. Therefore, deciding by vote when life exists or when life ends can be done - in fact, you have a majority and you do - which is, from my point of view, a real aberration and barbarity. In any case, it's true that you have the votes, you're going to approve what you want, but you know that having the votes doesn't mean you're right. Thank you very much. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u5	Thank you, Mr. García. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u6	Thank you, President. That the People's Party, that VOX, that ultra-conservative organizations and even bishops are against abortion is incredible in the 21st century. You look like characters in a black and white movie. But using the defense of life as a motto is an approach that, besides being conservative, is a lie, is a troll. Look, according to Amnesty International, one in four pregnancies in the world end up in abortion. Moreover, data do not change in those countries where abortion is legal and in those countries where abortion is illegal. Do you know what data they change? Change the risk data for women's lives. In those countries where abortion is illegal, the risk to women's lives is much higher, and in those countries where abortion is legal, the risk to women's lives is low. His campaign should therefore appeal to the right to life of rich women, not to the right to life; to the right to life of some, of rich women. Because in those countries where abortion is illegal, the risk to women's lives fully coincides with those women who cannot afford conditional intervention. So don't be swindlers: if you are against abortion, you are for the right to life of the rich. Feminists, feminism, we are for everyone's life, for the desired maternity homes and for a life worth living. But say it by your name, ladies and gentlemen, that at this point it is better for all. If they are against abortion, they are in favor of the lives of some, of exclusively wealthy women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on, good morning to all and everyone. I am speaking very briefly to conclude this very broad debate that began in 2010; a debate that came from before, of course, but I am referring to this renewal of what has been the concept of voluntary termination of pregnancy. I believe that the qualitative leap took place in 2010, obviously, when in the Spanish state it went from a law of assumptions to a law of deadlines, which was a qualitatively important change. I think it cost, it was negotiated, it was much debated, much less aggressively than it is now, of course, even if it is decisive in defending the exhibitions. And I think we have reached an important conclusion: the obligation of the public authorities to provide a solution to an existing problem. Because there were groups that did close their eyes and, as they did not see, the problem did not exist. And in the face of that, we, ourselves, have an obligation to provide solutions, because anyone who doesn't like having people in need of abortion doesn't mean we don't have to give those people a solution. Of course, as for the solution, I was asking here: if someone is informed and wants to abort, what are we going to do? Keep reporting, said a congresswoman. What if we keep reporting and want to? Well, let's keep going. In the end, some would force that person to have a child. I am no one to impose, from my ethics or from my morals, my ethics or my morals on anyone. Our obligation is to give solutions to those who think like us and those who do not think like us. Mr. García Adanero said it was a failure. I can share that it is a failure, but failures must be addressed, and the political solutions we are obliged to give must have legal and health guarantees. Does anyone think that if, for example, a government suddenly comes and prohibits the voluntary termination of pregnancy we would stop having abortions? That's what happened before: they closed their eyes and all there was was clandestine abortions, with legal insecurity and health insecurity and with due risk for women. That was the big jump that took place. After twelve years that bill has been renewed with amendments that the Government has made, to which we have told from the beginning - and I have said this more than once from this rostrum - to make as few changes as possible, because I believe that the consensus reached at that time was important to maintain it. It's been held at the end, it's been held. It is true that the People's Party - I said it recently -, although they do not believe it, has already crossed the river; moreover, they already live in the new situation, and not only because the Constitutional has dictated what it has dictated, but because even the speeches are already different. He had a chance to go back to the other side of the river and he didn't. The only thing that changed was age. Well, we can disagree, it seems even understandable to me that we are discussing whether or not sixteen yes, that has already changed; in any case, I believe that that amendment, which was the fundamental change that the present Government was seeking to return to the initial situation, has been used by you, Minister, to introduce more things. I believe that at the amendment stage some issues have been amended and others have continued. With regard to health and education, we believe that the approaches that you have included within what is training and in the health sector are the competence of the Autonomous Communities, which have to carry out these issues. But it is not the most important thing, I think that women should have the peace that if they want to have a child they can have them, as is normal, with all the health and legal guarantees; and, therefore, if in their life they have had to get to the situation of having to resign for having an unwanted pregnancy, that the State and the public authorities of the solution to that situation. Solutions must be those that, regardless of the ethical and moral codes of which we are legislating, are shared or not, are valid for all. Let's keep that in mind. We legislate for all and for all, not just for those who think as themselves. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u10	Today comes to an end the processing of the abortion law, a law that, as liberals, we have always defended and in which we have worked responsibly, because when we talk about freedom we have to have very clear, ladies and gentlemen, that from Citizens we defend freedom firmly, and with this abortion law we realize even more that when we talk about defending freedom we are alone. This same week, the Constitutional Court rejected the People's Party's appeal against the law they filed 13 years ago; a resolution that took too long to arrive, but which reminds us of what it was, what it is and what the People's Party will be: a conservative party. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, no matter how much they say they are not liberal, they are not liberal, they are conservative, because only a conservative party will try to overthrow a law that, far from being perfect, does it guarantee women's freedom to choose whether they want to be mothers. Unfortunately, it seems that the women of this country are condemned to choose between a People's Party that seeks to limit their freedoms and a Socialist Party that often unprotects them. We see that the PSOE and Podemos do not respect women's freedom and autonomy either. On the one hand, it brings this law reform, which we share, and some modifications in relation to the voluntary termination of pregnancy and they sell it as a great social conquest, but they put us through the back door a reform criminalizing the surrogate pregnancy. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, what they send to women is the message that they can freely decide whether they want to be mothers or not, but they cannot decide how or when. Moreover, the problem of this senseless criminalization that they are carrying out by the Government is that it leads us to an unacceptable reform, which deepens the legal insecurity faced by those who resort to surrogate pregnancy in order to be able to form a family and, in particular, their children. I don't know if they've thought about their kids. In fact, this type of action exacerbates the problem because what they do is to point out to the more than 3000 children born by surrogate pregnancy in our country, who are already victims of abuse and aggression in many cases. I do not understand how the Government hits the chest saying that a good child protection law is passed and then conducts proceedings against the best interests of minors in families of subordinated gestation. Nor do I understand how breast strokes are done by saying that an advanced law is made in recognizing women's free decisions to be mothers and, at the same time, what they do is to establish a moralizing component. Sometimes I reflect on these issues and wonder whether we are really facing a progressive government or not, when so many measures, limitations and morals are being established in relation to women's freedom. On the other hand, we have VOX. The vice president of Castilla y León, Mr Gallardo, what he has done has been to take the brunt of the criminalization and victimization of women, restricting their freedom to decide without any kind of imposition - gentlemen of VOX, without any kind of imposition - when they want to be mothers and, equally, without any emotional blackmail - I would miss more, gentlemen of VOX! - when a woman has already decided what she wants to do through a thoughtful, hard and free decision, wanting to put obstacles to exercising her right to voluntary termination of pregnancy. Never, ladies and gentlemen of VOX. This is what the People's Party wants. It has demanded the expulsion of liberals from governments in order not to be held accountable for situations of corruption and have been thrown into the arms of those who are afraid of freedom. It is the liberals who have to tell the right that we defend women's freedom without modesty in order to decide when and how they want to be mothers and, at the same time, to defend also in front of the left that this freedom does not end at the time of speaking of surrogate pregnancy. That is why we tabled in both Congress and the Senate a number of amendments that were in this line. When we talk about women's freedom, we don't want half inks, we don't want timid laws. However, we see in the process of amendments how some questions have been raised by Squerra Republicana and Bildu on the co-official languages. I would also like to highlight an amendment in which we are going to stand against it. It is an amendment to the Compromises in paragraph 17 of which states that health centres must offer the provision of the voluntary termination of pregnancy by surgical or pharmacological method. In our parliamentary group - look at the legal technique - it seems to us very important that it be through the surgical and pharmacological method, because if not the provision of the service is carried out and offered in a limited way. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, to this amendment, because we believe that, instead of improving the health possibilities of exercising the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy, it could entail a limitation on a good service that must be offered from public health so that women can exercise it with all their guarantees. In short, what we want from Citizens is a courageous, guaranteed regulatory framework that allows Spanish women to live where they live, to enjoy freely their sexuality and, if they wish, their motherhood, because that is the guarantee offered by Citizens: freedom for the exercise of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, freedom to form any kind of family without limitation, without morals and without imposition on any woman. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u11	Thank you very much, Mrs Giménez. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Now yes, we are taking the last step to pass the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health, which really represents a necessary step forward in rights, even by recovering some of the earlier abductions by the right, such as the voluntary interruption of pregnancy for women of sixteen and seventeen years of age, and we also do so after knowing the decision of the Constitution that endorses the 2010 law, rejecting the Popular Party's appeal, a failure of the right to rake in its obsession with cutting rights, but above all a victory for women and for all people who believe that only women can decide on their own body and motherhood or not; neither the PP nor VOX nor the Episcopal Conference. Today, it is up to them to strengthen and consolidate those rights. The law now comes back with Senate amendments that, regardless of whether we like them or not, we understand that they do not alter the central elements. Some go in the direction of others that we present here in Congress, for example, in relation to women not being able to be recipients of practices that seek to alter, revoke or delay the decision they made in connection with the interruption or otherwise of their pregnancy. We already know how important it is to guarantee this, but in case someone hadn't noticed it yet, the ultra-right was asked to remember it with the action intended by the People's Party and VOX government in Castile and León. There are also others to ensure respect for autonomous skills or the right to receive information, training and attention also in one's own language, including that not doing so can be considered a cause of discrimination. Does this mean that the BNG is entirely satisfied? Well, obviously, no. I would like to remind you that we have tabled different amendments in order to help improve the initial proposal. Some were incorporated, others, surprisingly, were not. For example, to ensure specific items for funding research on sexual and reproductive health from a gender perspective, to further protect women in the workplace to consider the negligent or intentional transmission of STDs as gender violence; also to cover the expenses to women who, exceptionally - should always be - are derived by public health to a private centre. But especially our amendment 64, in order to really ensure the interruption of pregnancy in the public health network, and this can only be achieved by eliminating the possibility of conscientious objection, because, if it is a right, the personnel exercising their work in the public administration must have the obligation to guarantee. In any case, as I said at the outset, significant progress is being made with this law, so we believe that it is really a very important step forward today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have definitively adopted the abortion law and we have had surprisingly several days with a debate in the media about whether abortion is right or not for Mr Feijóo and the People's Party, and I will say it with all due respect: as if that mattered, as if it depended on you whether it was a right or not, as if you were the protagonists of this debate, when the protagonist of this debate is the freedom of women to choose their mothers and to, if they decide to abort, do so with peace and security. You see, abortion in Spain is a right; abortion in Spain is a right by law; abortion in Spain is a right by the conscience of Spanish society; abortion in Spain is a right by the conquest of women, but, indeed, abortion in Spain is a right even for your own voters; and abortion in Spain is a right even for yourselves. I am convinced that among the ranks of those who today are going to vote against the right to abortion there are those who have at some point exercised the right to abortion, they or their loved ones. How is it not going to be a right? Of course it is! [[A Member of Parliament: Were you there?- Rumors.-Mr Robles López utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u15	Ladies, quiet, please! Mr. Robles, I'm asking you to be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u16	Of course, that is why they insult and why it is important to clarify the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to legislate here today on whether abortion is a right or not, that is another century's debate. Abortion is a right, separate as you put it, but let's clarify concepts. You, we, have not and, in fact, have never had the power to decide whether or not women choose motherhood; we have neither and never had the power to decide whether or not women abort. That just doesn't depend on us. Women have done it when it was illegal and they have done it when it was legal. The only power we have, the only thing we can decide about is whether when women decide to abort they do it quietly, do it safely, do it in the public and with respect or do it with more difficulty and with more pain. That's the only power we have. That is the only right we are voting on today. [[Applauds]] Let us be honest - another Member has said earlier - in the debate, ladies and gentlemen of the right. You are not debating the right to life, you are debating what bothers you, which is women's freedom, because for you every time a woman wants to exercise the right to freedom on her own body she has to be watched, she has to be protected or she has to be asked twenty-five times, as if she were a minor, to see if in the end she can exercise freedom on her body or not. It is very easy to see that for you this is not a debate on the right to life, but the issue is the allergy that causes women's freedom. Why is it not a debate on the right to life? If you were concerned about the right to life, in addition to worrying about 3D or 4D ultrasounds, you were concerned that there would be pediatricians in the public after, you were concerned that there would be early care in health centers, you were concerned that there would be children's schools, and of that you never come here with any proposal, you never legislate anything, you never propose anything, simply and simply because for you that is never the debate, that has never been the problem. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, while this week Mr Feijóo, the moderate Borja Semper or Bishop Munilla have been debating whether women's freedom is for them a right or a failure, Spanish society is clear. The sooner you reach the 21st century, the better for all. Abortion is a right and you don't touch it. Leave the women alone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vallugera Balañà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u18	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies. Good morning, deputies. It is the last step towards the adoption of this law, and therefore I come to explain our position on the amendments and to ask this House to vote against the amendment which, certainly with very good faith and with great desire to help, has presented Compromises, but which implies the detail of a 'y' or 'o'; it implies a whole capacity of rights that we grant or do not grant. Basically, it is a question of saying: we are going to vote in favour of all the amendments that come from the Senate and we are going to vote against this because in some way it implies that pharmacological abortion and surgical abortion do not take place at the same time in public institutions and, therefore, that decision-making capacity that is given to women does not exist. Very important here is to say: we must have the right to choose between surgery and pharmacology in the centers. I just thought I'd leave it here, because in the end we've talked many times about the right to abortion. Perhaps the most distinctive feature of today's session is that we have the position, which has been very quick, of the Constitutional Court and which has not yet become a judgment. It will be good to read the legal bases, because what we have is an announcement of the rejection of an opinion which, through another rapporteur, will become a judgment. So let's be a little strict. That is why I did not intend to repeat today the debate on abortion, on the right to abortion, because we have already done so many times and have done so in different rules. I would like to remind the House that it is not just the amendment of the 2010 law; it is also the inclusion in the Criminal Code of the prohibition on harassing women in centres for voluntary termination of pregnancy. And I would also like to recall today that this law is not only about the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy; it contains many preventive measures and many measures, precisely, of access to contraceptives, and that is one of the great strengths of this law. But, well, you guys have a habit of always keeping the most eye-catching. I have said it many times and I repeat it - the previous Member said it, and forgive it because I am very busy today - is that it is the same, it is the same thing, it is that it has been aborted, since it was known how it was done, all of life. We do not talk about ourselves; we talk about whether we guarantee the right to do so safely for the physical and mental health of women. We are talking about the responsibility of the State to provide the capacity for rights to be reality. We talk about the right to her own body and to her own motherhood of women. Today an interesting question is put on the table and, curiously and rarely, Mr Adanero did. This is a matter of majorities, and I therefore find myself under an obligation to remind all women and men in this State that rights are never sufficiently guaranteed. We never assume that the right to abortion will remain unpunished after this legislation. And, depending on which majority there is in this Parliament, it will not be so. The most interesting thing about this discussion, therefore, is surely the will that we must have as a society to continue defending, to continue preserving and to continue advancing in women's rights as fundamental rights and in the hard way of achieving, preserving and defending any of the rights that we can achieve through political negotiation and votes. I'll make it clear. As they win VOX and PP, ladies, I see myself again in London aborting and accompanying my friends, and that can't be. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Therefore, pay attention to the positionings, which hangs on a thread. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs Vallugera. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u20	Thank you, President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is one of those days when one is aware of the privilege of witnessing a historic moment from this House. As a feminist, it is an honor for me to defend a law that shields the sexual and reproductive rights of women in the country, a law that advances in the historical struggle for autonomy and the right to decide on our bodies, a feminist law. Today we take one more step in the long way that the women's movement has gone, from which we are heirs; thousands of women who came before and put their bodies in order for us to be here today. All of them paved part of this path that we continue today, and we do so that those who come later can continue to weave this purple thread of which we are all part. Today we pay tribute to all of them, to anonymous women, who were forced to have children when they did not want to have them or to play their lives so that they could not have them because they could not afford a ticket to London; to those who set up clandestine networks to accompany them and to all those who occupied squares and streets, who took up public space so that never again a woman from this country had to die on a stretcher or bear the blame and stigma imposed by the religious fundamentalism of the far right. Today we recognize the struggle of the Eleven of Basauri, of the four thousand feminists who, in 1985, agreed to self-incrimination for abortion practiced by two young people who did not comply with the newly adopted law; those who, in 2014, pushed the 2010 law and who took the liberty train that derailed the very dangerous reform of the People's Party and forced the resignation of Alberto Ruiz-Gallardón, once again demonstrating the democratic power of the feminist movement; those who have faced the harassment of fanatics at the doors of the clinics; the members of the 8-M territorial commissions; scientists and researchers; health professionals; journalists who have been rigorously informed about the situation of abortion in our communities; activists and associations who protect and advise women. All of you, thank you, this law is yours. Most of these women can't be named, but some have faces and feminists have memories. Therefore, we recall the work of Bibiana Aido, Prime Minister of Equality of our country, who was harassed and ridiculed for being a woman, for being young, for being a feminist. [[Applauds]] We owe this law to her and to the entire socialist team of that Ministry of Equality. The Socialist Party would do well to remember also that time and how the strategy of the media and judicial offensive of the right-wing parties looks suspiciously like what we are living today. Those who have put the body for women's rights on the streets and in institutions continue to be tried to discipline with insults, attacks and political violence. That is why I would also like to acknowledge the work of the Ministry of Equality, the Minister, Irene Montero, the Secretary of State, Angela Rodríguez, and his entire team. This law is also thanks to them. Thank you, comrades, for continuing to do politics, for never forgetting why we are here and for always defending women. Thank you for not giving up, even though you have everything against it. Thanks for not giving in. [[Applauds]] Feminist advances have always been met with a reactionary response. We saw it in 2010 and we see it now. They cannot bear that the collective and popular struggle is making this country a better and safer place for women. They want to continue to control our bodies, to control women, because their power is held over that subordination. This country is built on the shoulders of women who care, who clean, who mother or not, who are responsible for keeping us alive and healthy. They're afraid of losing their privileges. Yeah, they're scared, they're afraid of the strength of the feminist movement, they're afraid of women. That's why they react violently; that's why, when they get to institutions, they try to take away what they have conquered, and the right to abortion is always the first at the point of view. It was attempted by the PP in 2014 and was attempted a few months ago by VOX government partners in Castile and León. We do not allow it then nor will we allow it now. We're not going back. We are not going to let what happened last year in the United States happen here when a handful of conservative judges turned back 50 years on women's rights. That's what they want, that's what they're going to do if they rule, and that's what the Democrats and Democrats are not going to allow. We do not conform to the aidist logic. We continue to gain rights because that is the unwavering commitment of the progressive forces of this House representing the democratic and feminist majority of this country. Therefore, today we are going to pass this law that is based on what feminism has taught us: comprehensive sex education to decide contraceptives not to abort and free and safe abortion in the public not to die. Legislation that is born with the will to give effect to the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy for all women in the country, which shields the right to abortion in the public so that a woman never again has to travel one hundred or two hundred kilometres to abort, because there are communities where a single EVI has not been practiced in thirty years. A law that trusts women to decide autonomously about their realities, eliminating the obligation of the period of reflection that infantilizes us. A law that restores the right to decide between 16- and 17-year-old women and women with disabilities; that guarantees comprehensive sex education as the right of girls and young people; that commits to co-responsible, accessible and free contraception in public institutions; that addresses menstrual poverty and guarantees casualties by painful rules. We're done working with pain, we're done with guilt and stigma for all the people who menstruate. Because yes, trans men and non-binary people also menstruate. A law that advances in the rights of women, of those who vote for us and of those who do not, of our friends and of those who do not know anything, even of those who will today vote against this progress. That's how life and family really stand up for themselves. They lie to their lordships of VOX and PP when they say they are provided. They claim to defend life, but when they rule they destroy and cut everything common, everything public, everything that sustains life. They cut back on health, endangering the lives of millions of people; deny access to health care to seniors of residences during the COVID and have, where they govern, the entire society thrown into the streets defending the health of all against their murderous policies. Defending public health is defending life. And now that Feijoo's trying to make up the PP's position, they're not fooling us. We remember, we remember where the People's Party was in 2010: in ultra-Catholic demonstrations against the rights of women and LGBT people, resorting to a law before the Constitutional Court that saves lives and trying to get us back to 1985. Your party has been against women in every step we've taken. Let women's struggle live! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Muñoz. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, you have Mrs Méndez Monastery. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as a matter of fact, I invite you to answer a number of basic questions. Is abortion good or is it bad? [[Rumors]] If it's not good, why do you consider it a right? Is it good to kill a human being in the womb? Is it good? Is it good or is it something you should try to avoid? [[Rumors]] Because none of you have heard of the life of that child who is going to disappear. [[Applauds]] And even though I know, ladies and gentlemen, that an abortion cannot be justified in the name of women's freedom, I ask them: Is a pregnant woman free with problems who makes a decision without alternatives, without support, without information and without being able to reflect and therefore discern? Is it free? Unhappiness, ladies and gentlemen, to voluntarily inform of reality, or perhaps it is cruelty to conceal it? If they are scandalized because a woman can voluntarily hear the heartbeat of the child she carries in her bowels - and if it can also sustain a life - if that scandalizes them or considers it coercion, it is that her reason is corrupt. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] How is it possible that an amendment to this text, supported by the People's Party in the Senate, has been incorporated to prevent the possibility of voluntary reporting to the pregnant woman? What are you afraid of? Are you afraid of the truth? Being a mother is a condition for life that will not disappear and what that woman is going to decide is to disengage from a human being who is her child. What scandals me, ladies and gentlemen, is that you punish a rat with prison sentences while a child can be killed freely in his mother's womb. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]] That's sadism! That's sadism! Recently, ladies and gentlemen, a renowned psychiatrist told me that he did not understand how no alternative remedy is offered for the many who actually exist - information and reflection - to avoid the bloody consequences and suffering he saw, day by day, in the privacy of his consultation for the irreparable loss of a helpless creature. Can you state that abortion is healthy, Minister? If he tells me yes, he lies; and if he tells me no, why does he promote it? If there are reports that, when aid is offered, 80% of women continue with pregnancy, can you explain, Minister, how is it possible that, if life can be saved and suffering avoided, you do the opposite, causing more death and suffering? Is it fair that there is a budget of more than EUR 35 million for abortion and less than EUR 3 million for social assistance? [[Applauds]] When their goal is social destruction, causing women to sacrifice their children, there is no point in appealing for justice. And he says this is progress. You fulfill the maximum that Lenin applied, violence in the bodies and lying in the souls. Lie and lie until perversion. Yes, Your Honor, because they take just value, as is freedom and as is equality, and corrupt them to perversion. What else is his law of yes or the trans law or the same law that ends up harming those who claim to defend? Minister, you must resign and ask for forgiveness. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the Left is very clear - very clear - that the defence of life from its inception is the foundation of a free and democratic society; that is why it is striving to attack. During all the legislatures, since the 1978 Constitution, the left called for free abortion. It was his road map. In 2010 he got it against all the reports and even without any social demand. They have it very clear; you, not so much. You have submissively submitted to your postulates. The first and most important betrayal of the People's Party was not to repeal the law it had promised. He delegated his legislative responsibility to the Constitutional Court, to which he had filed an appeal with up to eight chapters on unconstitutionality, spending thirteen years without a sentence, which makes him the direct responsible, over time, for the change of mentality and normalization of this conduct. [[showing a document]] [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the right to abortion in our country is not an advance, nor is it progress, Mrs Gamarra, the greatest expression of barbarism. Barbarism always has an advantage over culture, and it is enough to be carried away by the current, while culture requires an effort to preserve it, as historian Rémi Brague says. Recently, with the assault on the Constitutional Court, the Government has achieved the greatest and most important of its objectives: that the right to kill a human being be declared in accordance with the Constitution. They do not care that it is an unjust and unjust law; they do not care that it is against constitutional doctrine; they do not care when their first ambition, which is to constitute themselves as lords of life, is fulfilled. President Feijóo consummates his betrayal by affirming that the resolution that endorses the whole of the law, which absolutely unprotects the unborn, is a correct sentence. The latest declarations have been cumbersome, not knowing how to differentiate what a human right is from a fundamental right, a material right or a formal right, and have appealed, as always, to consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to life of the unborn is an essential value that is not decided by consensus. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, principles and convictions are or are not, but they do not agree and are defended in the face of the totalitarian offensive. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, there is only one interpretation: when they were able to do so, they did not. The other day Congressman Patxi López said: neither you nor anyone nor God can prevent a woman from having an abortion and a woman who wants to have an abortion from having an abortion. [[Mr López Álvarez speaks words that are not perceived]] Indeed, Your Honor, indeed. That is why freedom is so important, because we have been created free and that is why, because we are free, we choose life, while you choose death. [[Applauds]] We defend the right to life of the most innocent, the right to a woman to be a mother, the right to have alternatives, the right to be supported, the right to motherhood. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we are not in favour of the Constitutional Court's resolution, even if it is neither fair nor impartial. It doesn't matter. Now more than ever with VOX there is hope. Changing laws is the responsibility of the Legislature and it will be the ballot boxes that decide that in Spain can govern the only party that defends life from conception to natural death. [[Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the stand.- A Member: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Méndez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs González Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u24	Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Errejón, your comment to the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group is unacceptable and I demand that you withdraw it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Equality shows us once again - and there are three - its exceptional legislative powers, which, unfortunately, have already been revealed in the only law adopted by now, the law of yes is yes, but which threaten Spanish society on all sides. Pending final approval and promoted by the pompite side of this government are the trans law, this abortion law, the animal welfare law, the animal abuse law or the law of universities, the latter in the Senate. All of such high legislative quality that the alleged beneficiaries of the decisions taken in them beg, where they can be heard - not in Congress, that it closes its doors to those critical citizens, preventing them from intervening in the corresponding commissions - that, please, the bills are not passed and just leave everything as it is. After the criminal tsunami of the law of yes, we are still suffering, and we will suffer for a long time, the Ministry of Equality has to recognize that the minimal capacity of conviction that could remain in front of Spanish public opinion has wasted it irreparably and that today in society what has been generalized is concern, boredom and anger at the occurrences and follies of the Government. [[Applauds]] Ministries on one side and on the other compete with each other for who is capable of causing the greatest possible destabilization. [[Mr Sánchez García: The question!]] Remember, if not, the dilate of the Ministry of Transport and its trains that do not fit through the tunnels. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u25	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u26	Everything has an air of sloppy vallenclanesco, if not because these performances have already transcended the category of occurrences to become true trophies and lawlessness. [[Mr Sánchez García: Abortion is under discussion!]] The Spanish society has moved from disbelief to outrage at the Government, which, since it is not going in any way, please do nothing, because it is better not to touch a single legislative text in the face of the likelihood that the disaster will spread and the results will be irreversible, as, unfortunately, we are living with the amendment of the Criminal Code in the law of yes is the release of more than forty sexual rapists and aggressors and the reduction of nearly seven hundred convictions so far. [[applause]] [[Rumors]] Mrs Montero, perhaps you have reflected on the resignation yesterday of the Prime Minister of Scotland caused by the failure of your trans law. Doesn't that sound like a behavior worth considering, even a feminist? You see resignations very well when they occur in foreign governments or in other governments, but not in this one. The crazy will of the Ministry of Equality to leave its mark on our legal system has also reached the abortion law in an absolutely unnecessary, inopportune and unexpected way, forcing the urgent procedure without the mandatory reports that came after its debate in this House and causing the concern of medical and health professionals. The report of the General Council of the Judiciary, adopted one week after the Congressional debate on this bill, rejects the deletion of the consent of parents in the case of 16- and 17-year-old girls. [[Applauds]] The report points out that our regulatory framework only partially recognizes that those over sixteen and under eighteen are mature enough to intervene in legal life without the assistance of their legal representatives. Therefore, it considers it inappropriate to allow minors in this age group to apply for the practice of abortion without the advice of their parents. The report considers the current system to be perfectly valid and warns of the difficulties that this interference with parental authority can bring with it, as it makes it difficult for parents to provide assistance, care, education and training on their children on a constitutional basis. [[Applauds]] Similarly, the General Council of the Judiciary criticizes the disappearance of the period of three days of reflection prior to the intervention, as it considers that it is an appropriate period of time for the adoption of a conscious and meditated decision that should be associated with informed consent. It also objects to the General Council of the Judiciary that the disappearance of information on the resources and aid available to a woman implies in practice that its abolition makes it difficult, precisely, that informed consent necessary for such a serious and irreversible decision. Ladies and gentlemen, the ban on providing information goes hand in hand with the disappearance of the three days of reflection that the previous legislation established. The arguments put forward by the Government - we have just heard them - for this decision are that this period is an example of childish, condescending and patriarchal treatment of women in the system. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it is the Government that treats women in a childish way, preventing them from having access to that complete and sufficient information, which is necessary for mature and adult decision-making. [[applause]] Not in vain, Spanish legislation establishes the right to informed consent as one of the acts that integrate medical action so that the consequences of each intervention can be properly assessed and chosen or rejected on a reasoned basis. The Government, driven by its undeniable lack of equanimity, carries its sectarianism to the point of stealing this essential information from women; however, it fills the rest of the text of the law with other mandatory information in all co-official formats and languages through these amendments adopted in the Senate. In other words, women will be informed about all kinds of details, except about possible alternatives to abortion. This is prohibited in an undeniable display of dogmatism - almost fanaticism, I would say - in the procedures ordered in this text. [[Applauds]] The General Council of the Judiciary also criticizes the regulation of the state registry of conscientious objectors, which it considers to be unconstitutional. And, as I no longer have time, I am not going to talk about this last point, but I would say to you, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that none of these very important objections to the reports have been answered in the Senate proceedings. And having not changed practically the text, our position is the same: the rejection of this bill, for inappropriate, for unnecessary, for childish, for intolerant, for improper and for incongruent. Thank you very much, President. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs González. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Berja Vega has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u28	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what a spectacle you have offered us this week with your position on abortion! First, Feijóo comes out and says - without meditating much - that the law of 2010 was not so bad. Then Mr. Borja Semper comes out, the campaign spokesman, and says abortion is not a right. But it just doesn't end here. Then Feijóo comes again, disallows Mr Semper and also what the ideological presentation of the People's Party itself says. You know what's the only good thing about all this? That the fact that abortion is a right does not depend on you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, depends on a social and political majority that made it law. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, today I am particularly excited. [[Several Members: Ooooh!]] We owed a debt to the young women of this country, to the girls of sixteen and seventeen years old. The People's Party has taken away their right to abortion, and today this House and this Government are doing justice and giving back to the young women what they should never have lost. And I told them that I was especially excited because in 2015 I was a senator and defended the position against Rajoy's reform, and at that time we already said: the PSOE would repair the crack that the People's Party had made to women's rights. And, ladies and gentlemen, today we Socialists are doing it. [[Applauds]] But if there is a date that changed everything was February 1, 2014 - yes, ladies and gentlemen, the day of the freedom train -. Thousands and thousands of women and men went out into the streets to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, to stop manoeuvring women's rights. The women of this country cried out that they were fed up with the morality of the right to deprive them of being able to decide freely about our motherhood; the women told you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that no, the right to abortion is not touched. Sexual and reproductive rights are a very symbolic struggle for the feminist movement; motherhood has traditionally pushed women away from the public arena. Whether we are ourselves and not others who choose to be mothers or not and when we are, is a lethal opposition against sexism. That is why political battles have been so important for the decriminalization of contraceptives and abortion, and for the right to free abortion. And that's why so much resistance from conservativeism in this country; resistance, yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. When feminists talk about the obstacles to progress on equality between women and men we talk about resistance, but you don't know it because this air you want to give now as defenders of women's rights has no genealogy, you don't have political history, you are not heirs to progress. What you have now is clearly an electoral imposture. Do you know who does have genealogy and political history in defense of women's rights in this country? The PSOE [[Applauds]] Gentlemen of the People's Party, you voted against the 2010 law and filed an appeal with the Constitutional Court. You, Members of the People's Party who were sitting on that bench just 13 years ago, presented it. Thirteen years, ladies and gentlemen, have resorted to women's rights. But we weren't afraid, we're not afraid. The right to voluntary termination of pregnancy came to stay. They have not been able with the law of 2010 neither Gallardón nor the main plan of the PP nor the political interference of the PP in the high courts. And you know why? Because the law of 2010 is not exclusive to Parliament, it is not even the property exclusively of the feminist movement; that law is of the women and men of this country who made it theirs, and when that happens, ladies and gentlemen, when citizenship and society make their own a law, you no longer have anything to do. And the example is the huge reaction caused by the anti-abortion measures of the vice president of Castile and León, which they intended - with the invaluable cooperation of President Mañueco - to institutionalize the coercion against women who want to abort. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this issue is a little uncomfortable for you, and that is why this dance of positions between Mr Feijóo and Mr Semper. But, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you don't fool anyone. They have had recourse to the abortion law of the year 2010 thirteen years, I repeat, they have had recourse to the law thirteen years. You do not want the right to abortion, you did not even support the PSOE initiative to end the harassment of ultra groups at the doors of the clinics. You, ladies and gentlemen, stood by the stalkers, instead of the women. [[applause]] And, of course, since it's not conviction but imposture, they're still wrong. The other day he read an interview with the MEP of the People's Party Esteban González Pons, commenting on the Constitutional Court's rejection of the PP's application to the 2010 law, and Mr González Pons warned that if one of the appellants brought the ruling to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the ruling would most likely be overturned. I have to tell you that you are tenacious, truth, that I have to admit, you are tenacious in two things: in boycotting women's rights and in trying to influence the decisions of the courts. [[Applauds]] Very insistent. Despite the People's Party, the 2010 law is constitutional and a guarantee of the quality of democracy in this country. We already knew, we knew the law was untouchable, a law attended by experts and experts and adjusted to their time. I would like to take this opportunity to honour this law as it deserves; a law that we owe to many women who for a long time, many decades defended the right to a freely determined motherhood. From Federica Montseny, in 1937, as Prime Minister of a Government of Spain, to Bibiana Aido, whom today I want to thank for his courage and courage. [[Applauds]] Thank you, Bibiana.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u29	Mrs. Berja, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u30	I'm finishing up, Madam President. I would also like to thank the work of all health personnel and accredited clinics, which for years have practiced voluntary terminations of pregnancy, professionals who have been identified and harassed. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. The PSOE has been the political support of the legal structure of rights... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u31	Quiet, please,
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u32	The PSOE has been the political support for the legal structure of women's rights in this country, and, yes, it remains so. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let the women's struggle live! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Berja. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Equality has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u34	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today is a very important day for women's rights. We will definitely pass this law that expands our sexual and reproductive rights. Indeed, as Mrs Vallugera said, it is not just a law that extends the right to abortion. It is a law to expand sexual and reproductive rights, because women, who have preceded us and given us the witness we honor today, have explained to us very clearly that without sexual and reproductive rights we are not fully citizens; that we must have guaranteed our right to decide on our own bodies, but also the possibility of menstrual health being recognized as part of the right to health, access to contraceptives, access to menstrual health products and sex education; sex education to decide, to know our bodies, to identify violence, to know how to ask for help, to grow in equality and, ultimately, to be free. For me, therefore, it is very important today, in addition to that of all the companions in the gallery, to honor that memory of those who have made it possible for us to make this law today, and many of you have done so in your interventions. From the eleven of Basauri to the self-indicted, the feminist movement has always put the body, risked its life, faced prison, repression for defending the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy and for defending sexual and reproductive rights. Also Justa Montero, Begoña San José, feminist assemblies, the freedom train and, of course, Bibiana Aido. How badly you, ladies and gentlemen, mistreated the Prime Minister of Equality in the history of democracy and how time, democracy and feminism put things in place! [[Applauds]] I hope we do not allow more than a decade to pass so that we can put in place the women, like Bibiana Aido, who fought so much and put their body in order to advance the rights of all. I think it is important not to forget the rights that this law recognizes. This law recognizes that the public health network is the reference network for women to be able to voluntarily interrupt our pregnancy and that the right to conscientious objection by health personnel must be fully compatible with the right of women to interrupt their pregnancy in the health hospital nearest to their home. And yes, we also recovered a right that you stole from the young women of sixteen and seventeen years of age to decide on their own body, informing and sharing that process with their families, with their loved ones, with whomever they want, but it is they and only them who decide, as with any other health procedure. And also, indeed, the State sends a strong message to women: we believe and respect their decisions. Women, when they decide to interrupt their pregnancy, have reflected on the time they need. We don't have to force them to reflect as if they didn't have the ability to know when and how to make a decision that affects their own body. [[Applauds]] But this law is much more than that. This law recognizes menstrual health as part of the right to health. This law recognizes that the State and all administrations have obligations, responsibilities to distribute menstrual health products, and also contraceptives, in prisons, in social service centres, in educational centres, to combat menstrual poverty, to ensure that contraceptives serve precisely what they have to serve and that a woman can decide on her own body before she has to make the decision to voluntarily interrupt her pregnancy; also that contraceptives must have co-responsibility, which cannot be left to women's bodies alone to decide which contraceptives to use, and that men must also have co-responsibility in the use of contraceptives. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u36	If they do not respect the right to abortion, how will they respect those who defend it? [[Applauds]] And this law also speaks of something very important, which is comprehensive sex education, the need for our children and 'children' to be entitled to all stages of education. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent again, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u38	It is impressive how they are not able to approach even with respect to the reality of people who are only asking to exist and to be recognized without ridicule and discrimination. [[Applauds]] Do not mess with me, ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing is mocking people who suffer discrimination and misunderstanding, and who have the right to have their institutions recognize their existence as well. [[Protests. - Mrs. Moraleja Gómez: That's not true!]] I told them this law...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u39	Mrs. Moraleja, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u40	Whenever you like, with your permission. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u41	Quiet, please. Minister, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u42	I told them that this law also recognizes the need for sex education to be compulsory at all stages of education, precisely so that our children and 'children' can be educated from the earliest ages in the knowledge of their bodies, in respect of the diversity of bodies, in respect of the diversity of sexual orientations and gender identities, in the freedom to love, and also to have sex in their adult life with whom they want, to identify violence, to know how to ask for help; in short, to be freer and to have a society in which no one feels hurt, be afraid, feel sorry for being who he is and, above all, in which more than half of the population, who are women, are no longer at risk of suffering violence because of being women. [[laughs]] I'm on my way. I just want to warn you of something that I think we have seen forcefully in this legislature. The path of the abortion law, the path of this law that expands the sexual and reproductive rights of women, does not end this vote, nor does it end the publication of this law in the State Official Gazette. There will be resistance to the application of this law, just as there has been and there will be resistance to the application of all feminist laws. So it is up to us to work, work a lot, with the autonomous communities, with the health centres, with all the competent administrations to ensure that, as soon as this law comes into force, there will be sufficient staff in all public hospitals in our country to practice voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, respecting, of course, the right to conscientious objection of all health personnel who decide to object, so that effectively sex education is a reality in all schools, so that we can combat menstrual poverty and also facilitate access to contraceptives, so that we can be able to enforce the law, despite the resistance it will face, even though it has been published in the Official Gazette of the State as a result of the vote at this seat of popular sovereignty. Safe abortion, and in the public, not to die, contraceptives not to abort and comprehensive sex education to decide, to be free and to be happy. Let the struggle of women live!, and thanks to the feminist majority in this House that makes it possible. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can-In Commu Puem-Galicia in common, stood up.- Various Members: resignation, resignation, resignation!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Senate amendments. Draft Organic Law amending Organic Law 2/2010 of 3 March 2010 on sexual and reproductive health and voluntary termination of pregnancy. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendments to the preamble and to the single article, paragraph 6 - articles 5 and 5e of Organic Law 2/2010 of 3 March -, seven - articles 7 of Organic Law 2/2010 of 3 March - and fourteen - article 17 of Organic Law 2/2010 of 3 March -. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 189 against, 60 abstentions, 89.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u45	Accordingly, they were adopted. Amendment to the single article, paragraph 17, article 19 of Organic Law 2/2010 of 3 March. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 4 against, 286 abstentions, 48.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u46	It is therefore rejected. Amendment to the single article, paragraph 22; article 31 of the Organic Law. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 281 abstentions, 56.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u47	It was therefore adopted. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 337 votes in favour, 279 against, 51 abstentions, 7.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u48	Accordingly, they were adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we have just discussed, and whose amendments we have voted on, is organic. It must therefore be put to a final vote which, in accordance with Rule 131.2 of the Rules of Procedure, must be announced in advance by the Presidency. Therefore, in compliance with this provision, he announced that this vote would not take place before twelve o'clock. I would also like to inform you that from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m., i.e., for one hour, no-law proposals, motions, voting as a whole, the Organic Bill amending Organic Law 2/2010 of 3 March on sexual and reproductive health and voluntary termination of pregnancy, and Senate amendments to non-organic initiatives can be voted on telematically. All these matters will be put to the vote in the Chamber at the end of the sitting.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u50	We therefore continue with the plenary session. Amendments approved by the Senate to the Employment Bill. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herría Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you, if you want to leave the Chamber, to do so quickly and quietly. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, when there is enough silence, I will give the floor to Mr Matute, who is waiting in the rostrum. Mr. Matute, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Since one day an emergency evacuation is to be made, it gives me that here neither God is saved. [[Rumors]] By sticking to the question, today we are addressing the final procedure, the final step, for the final adoption of the Employment Act. It is true that the title of the law itself is probably much broader than what the law collects. [[The Lord]] Without taking away any merit or importance from the law, it is true that when you read that the Employment Act is debated and passed you might think that we will address all the dimensions of the world of work, all the dimensions of the labour market, all the capacities of the public power to influence it and to improve the living conditions of women workers through the achievement of decent jobs with rights, and that is not at all so. This law really seeks to put a little order in something that has been - purely neoliberal logic - absolutely disordered, which is the integration of work, the quality in employment and the effectiveness of public employment services in order to guarantee an itinerary that allows unemployed workers to opt for decent and rights-based employment. Therefore, welcome be the law in that regard. We also consider it important to point out that in this law, what can be a step forward is to stop, stop, temporary work enterprises; those enterprises which, taking advantage of absolute deregulation of the labour market, decided to do business at the expense of the people and decided that, in the same job and performing the same job function, a worker could earn a salary and another half so that the temporary work enterprise would be left with its share. In short, it is about working to live, not living to work. We believe, however, that there is a loophole in this law. We would have liked the amendments, both in Congress and in the Senate, to have included the amendments that referred to the need to incorporate the social economy also into the bodies of debate and decision, that is to say those that have to do with cooperatives, those that have to do with the whole world of the social economy, that remain outside the social dialogue table because the business side the cup exclusively CEOE and CEPYME, not allowing these companies to access that space. We believe that this is an outstanding subject of this law that will have to be remedied and that it will have to be incorporated. And, as in every law and every debate and debate on employment, I will again point out and refer to a mandate from the Basque Parliament, a majority mandate from Basque society, a mandate supported or supported by the main parties in Euskal Herria, which is that of the demand for outstanding transfers, primarily the capacity of the Basque people, the capacity of the citizens of Euskadi, to have in their hand and to hold all that has to do with active policies and passive employment policies. But there is certainly one element that is defining for us for the support of this law and for the positive vision that we have on it, which is that it has to do primarily with strengthening the role of the Labour Inspectorate, with inspectors or the Labour Inspectorate having the capacity, possibility and power to determine when a job regulation file fits the right or fails to fit. It's funny, because every time we talk about this one comes to mind a recurring debate. Why do entrepreneurs fear that the Labour Inspectorate will do its job? What are they afraid that they will be so frightened that the Labour Inspectorate will perform its function, that it is to ensure that the issues reflected in the Workers'Statute, i.e. the rights of women workers, are respected? And it is curious that incorporating this amendment of the Labour Inspectorate, by an agreement of Euskal Herria Bildu with the Ministry of Labour, has meant a tremendous anger of the CEOE and Mr. Garamendi. I won't deny that I almost like that the CEO and Mr. Garamendi were so angry. I like it because I don't know why I have to be disgusted that these issues bother a gentleman who opposes raising the interprofessional minimum wage to 1080 euros, while he in turn pays 1096 euros a day of everyone's money, because the CEO does not self-finance, is financed by public money. That is the paradox of capitalism. It could almost be said that they are day capitalists and night communists, because for the day they advocate for the free market, for the null intervention of the public power in the economy, but then they live with the money of everyone, because all their businesses make them getting aid and obtaining public works or public works licenses. Therefore, and to conclude, we will support this law, and hopefully with laws like this, it will stop, to painful realities such as those we see every day; as the same one that says that the seven great builders of the Spanish State, who worked as a cartel for twenty-five years to alter prices and to cover all public works, thanks to this independent justice that exists in the Spanish State, will be able to continue to do so and opt for contracts for 30 billion euros. That is what needs to be changed if this State is really to be a social and democratic State of law. But, in any case, it seems to us that for once we are not subject to the consensus of social dialogue, because for a long time in the Spanish State social dialogue was called but as an employer veto it was called. Besterik ez. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u52	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]] Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u53	Good morning. Mr Anitz, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I speak briefly because this is a law that comes from the Senate as a product of the acceptance by that House of five amendments - one from Boards and four from two or three different groups - with which its text has been improved with a view to the adequacy of training in the field of disability and in other specific areas, for example, with the training of officials to deal with these kinds of issues to be managed in this system. This law has already been dealt with and our group has tried and managed to reach certain agreements as a result of the understanding that training for employment in the Basque employment system, in the employment system as a whole for the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, already had a context, a text and an organization that served those purposes. In fact, there is already a preliminary draft employment law for the Basque Country which includes not only almost all the considerations referred to in this text, but also others which seek to apply the training activity, the activity of subjecting the employability of individuals to a process that is successful and whose management we believe has been carried out in an efficient way by the institutions of the Basque Country. In this regard, we believe that these amendments improve the text. At the time we approved them, there was a consensus with the Government and with the groups of Parliament to carry out those amendments, and today we must congratulate ourselves on what has been achieved and on adding to the order a text that should serve as the management of principles rather than as management, because we believe that the general employment system is simply complementary to those that already exist and that are successful in this area. Therefore, we will simply announce again our vote in favour, both of the amendments and of the text of the law that was already adopted by this House at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u54	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u55	President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Vice-President, unfortunately I cannot be as optimistic as my colleague, your lordship of the Basque Nationalist Party. Today the processing of this law, the Employment Act, ends. By his name, it might seem that today would have to be a very important day for our country and for millions of Spaniards who are still waiting to have a job, but finally, after the Senate process, I have to say that this law is a new missed opportunity. I said that in your process here, in this House, a few months ago. It is a missed opportunity because active employment policies have always been the Achilles heel of political action in the labour market of any government that has had our country. All you have to do is give a piece of information. In the last two decades Spain has failed to reduce its unemployment rate by 20%; if we talk about the long-term unemployed, the situation is already directly dramatic. We considered - as we said in this rostrum - that of course this law was necessary, because it was necessary to modernise active employment policies; and, in addition to that, it was essential and urgent. That is why I am saying that I cannot be as optimistic as my predecessors, and that is why I am saying that it is a pity that we can only say from this bill that it seemed more early than it has ended up being. Even the name of this bill as the Employment Act - so in general - seemed to us excessive. During the process it has been a disappointment for this Member not to be able to improve the project in order to really have a decent employment law in our country. Far from having improved something, as I have already denounced in this rostrum during the proceedings in this House, this law has been processed, like many others during this parliamentary term, in such a way - they will allow me - with the procedures, the meetings, the paper, the Commission and the most disastrous negotiations that I have seen as a Member all this time in this House. But what is the contribution of this new law? What's going to change? I am sorry to say that not much and the best proof of this is that, although we are used to government marketing campaigns, you will not have seen much of a booming marketing campaign about this Employment Act. Two things highlighted the note by the Council of Ministers in announcing the bill. On the one hand, the conversion of SEPE, the Public State Employment Service, into an agency, goes from service to agency. It supports the Government that it will be in order to have a digitized and modern service. This is an argument of the most pilgrim, because we all know that digitization does not magically appear with a wand when you change the legal regime from a service to an agency. Digitization will come with more resources, training... I mean, an agency is no more digital than a service. It's as if you're telling me that an autonomous is going to be more digital because of being an autonomous corporate. Look, no. As I said, to digitize resources and will are needed; and without resources and will - which have been missing for years in SEPE - do not tell me that because in law it will change service to agency it will be more digital. On the other hand, the press release from the Council of Ministers said that a new step would be taken in the evaluation of employment policies. I can say that this is a hairdo, and I know it is wrong because no one in this House takes public policy assessment more seriously than we do. I say it's a hairdo because, while this law has been processed with its process of analysis and evaluation of public policies, another law has been processed - where my colleague Juan Ignacio López-Bas has been working - which is the Law on institutionalization of the evaluation of public policies of the General Administration of the State and which is recently approved. This law says that it will incorporate a new regime that has nothing to do with the regime of the law of institutionalization. So why do they create a law to create an evaluation procedure, when there is another law and we will have to change the Employment Act to adapt it to the Law on Institutionalization of Public Policy Evaluation? I just don't understand anything. And far less is it understood, speaking of transparency, evaluation and public policies, that in the process in this House the Socialist and United Nations parliamentary groups We can, which are the groups that support the Government, have refused to accept the amendments of my group that seek the transparency and publicity of these assessments of policies, because without transparency and publicity there is no real evaluation of public policies, ladies and gentlemen. There are also elements that may not have the most appropriate regulation, such as the collaboration of private placement agencies and their inclusion in the integrated public employment service system. A last-minute amendment to the Workers' Statute on collective redundancies has been introduced, but it ended as I started: a great opportunity has been lost to modernise our labour market. The amendments that have been included in the Senate procedure are minor and do not substantially affect this bill, so we will support them to be included, but their incorporation cannot change the position of my parliamentary group in the face of this missed opportunity. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u56	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, Vice-President, in the opinion of the BNG, the problem is not the Senate's amendments - in fact, we are going to vote in favour - from our point of view, the problem is the law itself. We do not support it in its day precisely because we understand that it has an unacceptable privatization and centralizing bias. The new law, as we said at the time, opens the way to the privatization of INEM, SEPE and placement services, as it allows the outsourcing to private entities of all services, leaving them in the hands of ETTs and private placement agencies. A State employment agency is set up which, in addition to assuming functions at the state level, regulates the services of the autonomous communities, in a clear and flagrant invasion of competition. It is clear to us that this law, which is much more limited than the title - as has already been mentioned - could imply, is part of a package of measures imposed by the European Union, which was also part of the non-derogation of labour reform or pension reforms, which have also been carried out in a negative and privatising sense and which is announced. Therefore, we understand that it is going in an inappropriate direction. We are very afraid that this law can happen as well as the non-work reform, because we must see that, after a year of this measure, what happens is that flexibility and labour instability are growing, the extension of low wages is facilitated and precariousness continues; all the consequence, as I said, of moving forward a new labour regulation without having abrogated in its entirety the regressive norms of the years 2010 and 2012, not even the ease and the reduction of dismissal. We can see that the hours worked did not increase and no more jobs were created, that fixed discontinuous contracts increased by more than 120%, and also the number of indefinite contracts terminated because they did not exceed the probationary period, which is one of the characteristics of this new rule. In Galicia, for example, they grew by about 800%, from 231 in June 2021 to 2088 in June 2022. At the same time, part-time contracts increased by 33 % compared to full-time contracts, which do so only by 13 %. As I said, we are concerned that with this Employment Act the result may be similar. We will vote in favour of the amendments, despite our discrepancy with that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u59	Thank you very much, President. Minister, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The last step in the Employment Act culminates today with these amendments that come from the Senate, and I am going to make some reflections that we have already done at the time but which I believe is worth reiterating. It is true - it has been pointed out by other groups - that the law has better title than text, as it is looked at. With this powerful title of Employment Law, the fact is that the law is a step forward in employment policies, but perhaps not the absolute reformulation that was intended in this area. In fact, the debate on legal certainty at work appears on this point; some arguments have already begun to emerge in yesterday's day and I suppose they will be repeated in the emotions that may come in the following plenary session. In the face of one of the most upsetting headlines in this legislature, the famous ban on redundancy of ERTEs in the pandemic, the Supreme Court has already said that there is no such ban on redundancy. It should therefore be noted that certain titles or titles which are launched in certain subjects at the end are not transformed into the real realities that were intended. At this point, I wanted to make a reference to the amendments that come from the Senate. We will vote in favour because they represent an improvement in the area of care for persons with disabilities. I would also like to recall that it was precisely an amendment of the PEcCAT that was adopted in plenary on the issue of the care and improvement of employment programmes for persons with disabilities through the convening of the plenary session. Therefore, the pleadings in plenary also serve to improve the laws in its parliamentary procedure; a parliamentary procedure that will allow me to say that I believe it has been overcome. She said it's been a complicated and weird parliamentary process. I believe that the Animal Welfare Act has far exceeded this parliamentary procedure, but it is true that the debate and the work of this law were, at least, accidental. However, it should be noted that, although they were accidental and evolved in a singular way, cordiality, treatment and interaction with the other groups were always excellent. We must therefore be grateful that both the ministry and the groups were able to overcome the difficulties in the end. Finally, we want to mark our vote in favour of the amendments and the whole of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u60	Thank you. Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u61	In the first half of 2021, more than 12 million workers in the United States gave up their jobs, four million each month. It is what is known as the great resignation or big quit: precarious jobs that consume mental health, salaries that do not arrive to pay the rent, eternal days that make it impossible to reconcile, labor projects that prevent thinking to two years seen... To the traditional 'it's what there is', there are people who have answered no. This phenomenon rejects the precariousness and threats of the bosses. The New York Times or The Wall Street Journal describe it as a work syndrome that particularly affects younger generations. The great resignation is not taking place as such in Spain, but we are wrong if we do not understand that this mentality has come to stay. The working class demands expectations of improvement because we want to live better. The Spanish and American labour markets are very different, but probably the factor that explains that there is no replication here is structural unemployment: If you don't want to, I have a thousand doing queues. That reserve army is used to prioritize. The labour reform or this Employment Act seeks to respond to this reality and to banish precariousness. And it has to be said with the same force that we are building a more democratic and fairer model of labour relations that the data support that is working and that we still have a lot of work ahead of us. In Spain, 61% of workers claim to feel unmotivated in their work and 45% show burn worker syndrome, a cocktail that mixes stress, anxiety and also exhaustion. There are many factors that explain this discouragement, but today I will focus on two, economic and emotional. First of all, the economy, and I mean the domestic. You work a lot and well in this country, especially because of how little you charge. There is an elite that is being fed, that does not distribute anything and that is largely responsible for inflation: banking with historical profits, energy generating 41% of its profits and large areas like Mercadona with 360 million profits. Salaries, however, remain stagnant, many paralyzed agreements and companies with large profits refuse to share. A recent example we saw in Inditex, a multinational that was founded in 2022 and refused to raise frozen wages for years. The 'children of Inditex' - as the managers call them for more paddling - said enough, mobilized and they have managed to raise their wages, but many others less organized or with more difficulties have not been able to. There are managers and companies that act as a plug, a plug that chronicles inequality, damages the economy and promotes stress. The solution doesn't have to be imagined, it already exists: Pay them more. Don't they find waiters? Pay more. Subtractors are unmotivated? Pay more. Pay more! Don't they attract the enormous talent that already exists in Spain? Pay more. [[Applauds]] Up to 65% of Spanish employees say that a wage increase would give them back their desire to work, and I add to live. This Government has shown with the minimum wage that raising it is not only fair, but also economically effective. This week 2.5 million people will see their salary increase from 735 euros in 2018 to 1080 euros in this 2023. The economy, far from crumbling, as predicted by the right, is strengthened, and gaps such as gender are narrowed; surely you have seen a report that has published Workers' Commissions on this. Second, the emotional factor. Many of us have worked or know people who work in places where they are not made partakers of decisions, where their opinion counts zero or where they are directly despised: cannon meat. When we talk about democracy in companies we also refer to this, to workers who are recognized by their voice, to whom their contribution is valued; workers who participate, for example, in the boards of directors, who participate and decide the direction of companies. This Government has a clear strategy to change not only the working conditions, but also the working culture and labour relations of our country. We have labour reform that combats precariousness, promotes stability and advances in labour rights, but it is not enough and we are going to get more. This Employment Act is fundamental to tackling structural unemployment for four reasons: because it guarantees workers who need an effective public response; because it projects stability and opportunities for tomorrow, for workers and also for businesses; because we are the exception of the European Union to being the reference in accompanying, facilities, public policies and also in evaluating them; and because it involves a new approach to employability and a structural transformation of active employment, decent and quality policies at the centre. Employment and unemployment are not isolated episodes - I will not tire of explaining it -, they are parts of a vital and professional trajectory that must be of quality. We link employability to training and personal accompaniment, without criminalizing and assuming the competent public responsibilities. We talk about a catalogue of guaranteed services, personalized itineraries to achieve full career paths and mentoring throughout the working life, regardless of where you live. We talk about modeling, after all. To the right we are merchandise for sale in a lawless market. To the left we are people to whom we accompany in the realization of a right and personal growth. This law combats gaps, digital, gender, generational, study or territorial; and a final kindness, will give the Labour Inspectorate the capacity and authority for the administrative authorization of EREs. I do not need to explain to you how important this measure is. This has been a law worked out, negotiated and consensual. And I would like to end by thanking the autonomous communities, the public employment services, the researchers, the social partners and also all the parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made more progress this year in labour stability than in the past thirty-seven years, and we will continue to do so. Women workers in unemployment must know that it is not their fault, that they are not alone and that this Government is going to accompany them to find their place in the labour market; stable work, paying more and living better. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u62	Thank you. Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fourth debate in the General Courts, in this legislature, on the Employment Act, fourth time we refuse to accept the hypocrisy of some and the dubious moderation of others in one of the most tragic and sinister moments of our history in a Spain, now tired and painful. It is a government of hypocrites that brings us an Employment Law without any concrete measures to solve the precariousness and job creation, that is, adapted from the new dogmas of the left that are ruining Spain and that others, over time, also buy without any hesitation. Hypocrites, who, truncating the class struggle for the struggle of so-called gender policies, with minimal gestures to the disabled and to the social economy, intend to satiate this government's pompous commitments to the European Union without going through the courts and demanding, now, as an ultimatum, the adoption of this law. Hypocrits, since the cross-cutting element of this Employment Act is not full employment, training, merit or capacity, but gender perspective, considering Spanish society as the sum of different groups with different rights, constituting the umpteenth example of the abyss that separates the ideological interests of the Government from the real needs and the emergencies of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] Hypocrites, for maintaining an Employment Act converted into a tragic farce, which introduces particular and territorial interests that in no way prioritizes the search, aid, permanence and location of decent employment, as well as preventing conditions in fair and unhindered working environments. Hypocrites, for with this Employment Act they are ending any glimpse of seriousness, impartiality and common sense, which mainly affects the middle and most humble classes, eager for work and resources. Hypocrits, since they deny administrative intervention and fit in with the introduction of the Labour Inspectorate by reporting on collective redundancies, tarnishing the commitment at the late Bureau of Social Dialogue, following the stellar and style of the President of the Government, where any word given serves no purpose. Hypocritical, because it is clear that the mechanisms proposed to facilitate employment suffer from a certain lack of preconditions to generate it in Spain, current leaders of unemployment throughout the OECD and especially youth unemployment, and that yes, champions in the tax cost of work. Hypocrits, who follow the obsessive dictates of ILO and other supranational entities, prioritizing ethnicity or gender to motherhood; a term that appears only once and in the statement of reasons of this law without normative capacity, since this Government is a Government against women. [[Applauds]] Hypocrits, because they refuse to take on the real existing gap, the maternal gap, and they have lacked time - as in Royal Decree Law 1/2023, adopted a few days ago - to penalize motherhood, without mentioning in this law either the family or conciliation or any measure aimed at enabling the protection of women who are mothers and work outside the home. [[Applauds]] Hypocritical, because the Spaniards need a single National Employment System to avoid the duality of competences, double costs and the disparity of rights between Spaniards according to their residence, which overcomes the shortcomings that they have been suffering for decades. Hypocrites, because between each other for too long have refused to review the productive model of our labour market, following the dictates of bureaucrats to whom no one has voted and without consulting the Spanish. For example, 50 years ago, the percentage of GDP in the secondary sector, industry in Spain, was 31.95% and 25.3 % in the percentage of employment. In 1986, with our entry into the European Union, the secondary sector accounted for 29.16% of GDP and 24.6% of employment. At present, the percentage of this industrial sector in Spain accounts for 16%, which is equivalent to only 12.6% of the percentage of employment. It is therefore an objective fact that, since Spain joined the European Union, there has been a decline of almost half of GDP in the industrial sector and the same percentage of employment. And now, as set out in the law, they intend to get the right assembly in line with the so-called European Employment Strategy, such as banning the sale of combustion cars by dictation and obsession with the damn 2030 Agenda, top ten of the most powerful against workers, families and freedom. [[Applauds]] In short, hypocrites; hypocrites who do not even respect the good people, thousands of Spaniards who have given them the vote, even their militancy. Our amendment to the whole, tabled and defended by our honourable Member InésCañizares, is absolutely valid. Therefore, in this weary and painful Spain, our appeal is urgent, in serious summons to all the men and women of Spain, of any condition, and especially to the humblest and the young, because only with VOX there is hope. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u64	Thank you very much. For the People's Group in Congress, Mr. Movellán Lombilla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u65	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are again here to discuss an Employment Act which will not solve either the problems of employees or employers, but which will create new problems. Nothing new coming from this government; as nothing new also comes from the text that returns us from the Senate, just as unambitious, as short-sighted, focused only on covering the file with Europe; a text that betrays the pact of labor reform with the social partners, including that greater prior control of the EREs through the Labour Inspectorate; a text in which the amendments of the People's Party were not included, but an agreement without light or stenographers for the PNV, More Madrid, Bildu and even the PSOE to withdraw all the amendments in the Senate at the last hour. I do not know if one day we will know at what price this government pays the support to carry out a law as it is, but we do know who pays the bills, and those of this law are going to pay, for example, large families, to whom the PP asked to protect as a priority collective in an amendment that you rejected. I wonder: is it really such a bad idea to protect large families in a country with 1,157,900 households with all their active members unemployed and which is leading poverty and child poverty rates in the European Union? Do you really think it is wrong to protect large families in a country that leads the loss of purchasing power of families in the OECD? I am already making progress here that we are going to support the amendments incorporated into the law, but not a law that, speaking in silver, is not 'neither chica nor lemona', a missed opportunity, which is pure postureum; a law in which neither you believe, because you, ladies and gentlemen of the left, know the truth. They know that only half of the workers in Spain now work eight hours a day. They know that the number of hours worked does not stop falling. They also know that there are more employees, but there is less work. Full-time employment fell by 241,500 in the last quarter and part-time employment increased by 160 000. The reality is that, today, a working day is divided between two or more people, thus increasing the number of occupied persons, but not the hours of occupation. You also know, ladies and gentlemen, that the government's shameful statistical manipulation cannot prevent the Spanish from knowing and being aware of the slowdown in the economy, the reduction in activity and the failure of this government's labour policies. We started the year with 70,744 more unemployed, 215,000 fewer members, 20,800 fewer self-employed and 7753 more young people unemployed than in December. The People's Party doesn't tell you, the SEPE tells you. We are the country leading unemployment in Europe and the second country with the highest unemployment rate for women, with 14.8%, doubling the European average. We also have the honour of being the country with the highest youth unemployment, at 29.6%, compared to 15% of the European Union average; one in three young people under 25 years of age in Spain is unemployed. This is not said by the People's Party, it is said by Eurostat. Unemployment has risen by 43,800, 81,900 jobs have been destroyed and the number of self-employed workers has fallen by 34,700 this quarter and by 111,000 last year. The People's Party does not tell you, the Labour Force Survey tells you. Given this scenario, in the face of this reality, what proposal does the Government have to this House to reverse this situation? An Employment Act whose ultimate aim is to create employment in 30 years. That is what it says in the explanatory statement, which wants to increase employment by 15 points in the next 30 years. Madam Minister, as you are present, tell the more than 1,200 000 long-term unemployed who have been looking for work for more than a year without finding it, who still do not lose hope, who have twenty-nine more years to find a job. Is your Government aware that people with a discontinuous fixed contract earn 30% less on average than temporary ones? Are you aware that the increase in undefined contracts by the unorthodox growth of fixed discontinuous substitutes for temporary ones is a machine for creating precarious jobs, Minister? Do you already know how many inactive stationary workers remain as they can in Spain? Or do you prefer not to see them, like 36.8% of the unemployed who do not already receive any kind of benefit? I don't know if you're entering the real estate portals, but there's something curious, Minister. I don't know if the Government knows that in housing rental ads, phrases such as: refraining from fixed discontinuity are already appearing. Is that what you call creating decent and quality jobs? That is to create precariousness and arrange yourself with real work, and starting with yours, Minister. You work, you have a job, but you really work, not to change the names or logos of organizations like SEPE; you work so that the Spanish can work. Because in this country we are all clear as to where the legislative position of the Government leads. You arrived to protect the Spaniards from corruption, and those you have protected are your own corrupt, reforming the misappropriation. You have come to protect women, and those who have protected are the aggressors and rapists, those who have put on the street with their law of the only yes. That is why we ask you not to break up with this legislative position, ladies and gentlemen of the Government of Spain, because you do treat the Spaniards as the real merchandise to use, while they are worth winning elections, and to throw, when you have already sat in the chair. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u66	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Peña Camarero.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u67	Thank you, President. Very good morning. The Socialist Party will strongly support the contributions that have been incorporated into this Employment Act in the Senate, and we always thank, as it cannot otherwise be, the firm and loyal commitment of the various organizations and the social economy that today make this text, which is to be adopted in Congress, go much further and reach many more. While it is true that, although we have talked and debated a lot in this House about the Employment Act, about the new milestones that will improve employability, about the catalogue of individual services, about the creation of the Spanish Employment Agency or about the objective of achieving career paths of continuity, I wanted to stop at three issues that are relevant to the working people of this country and to our companies, and are more so at this time. First, I wanted to talk about the interprofessional minimum wage. This law ensures the unimpedability of the minimum wage in both its monthly and annual amounts, regardless of the period of payment. A new measure of protection for those who need it the most, and we do so in the week that the Spanish Government raises the minimum wage to 1080 euros, reaching 15 120 euros gross per year, with a rise of 47 %, which means an increase of 344 euros - of nothing - from where the People's Party left it pirically. [[applause]] And what does that mean? That prospective workers will never be able to charge less than 51.15 per day and, for example, domestic workers, a minimum of EUR 8.45 per hour. A fair news with which we comply, and I say it with pride, with a bet that has permeated the electoral programs for a decade by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. We are committed to the Spanish to reach 60% of the average wage and today it is a reality. Today one more commitment of the Socialist Party to the working people of this country is being made. [[Applauds]] This is certainly the best tool to combat labour poverty and inequality, and thus to introduce the second important issue I was commenting on. This Employment Act, the labour reform and the rise in the minimum wage have achieved that today the wage inequality in Spain has fallen by 5 points since the rule of Pedro Sánchez, but at the door of the next day 22 February, International Day of Pay Equality, we women still charge 4721 euros less annual average wage than men. This is a clear structural problem. The male activity rate is 12 points higher, but the part-time work for us is 75%. Salary supplements punish us in terms of availability and overtime, but in the less paid sectors we too are the ones who unfortunately earn 18% less, and maternity continues to penalise us. So this has to help us to keep moving forward, highlighting that there have never been so many women working in this country as at this time, more than 9.5 million, and that's the best news. [[Applauds]] We come to this figure when one year of labour reform is completed, a year in which we have changed the meaning of known labour reforms and what they brought to our mind and to our payroll: wage cuts, violation of collective bargaining, precariousness and temporality. For 365 days, labour reform means stable employment, strong collective agreements, alternatives to dismissal; it means more than 20 million workers, it means the lowest youth unemployment rate in the historical series and the lowest temporaryity in decades. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with the third question I wanted to share this morning. This Employment Act will assess how active employment policies are implemented. This is fundamental, because we have bloody examples of how, for example, in Andalusia, the most unemployed community in Spain, has an autonomous government that is sanctioned because it does not execute, attention!, 52% of the budget allocated by the Spanish Government to help self-employed people, to give incentives to recruitment or employability programs. [[Applauds]] No community has stopped using so much money, and so many people have stopped. This is the reality. This is true, Mr.Movellán, because, as the Spanish speaker says: You promise a lot, Don Diego, a sign that you will not fulfill it later. This is the reality and the service sheet of the People's Party and its new partner, VOX, also in Castile and León, which they intend to extend to the rest of Spain. While today we pass laws to give opportunities to all Spaniards alike, live where they live, the People's Party and VOX have decided that the workers of Castile and León have fewer rights. First of all, they have decided to violate the Constitution in its article 7, which recognizes social actors and where the social dialogue emanates, which they have carried on my land. Secondly, they are violating the rights of companies and labour rights by eliminating the labour relations service, a service that solved 70% of business conflicts in Castile and León. And worst of all, they're causing companies to move to other territories. I'm not telling you. The People's Party and VOX do not even listen to the entrepreneur, who is demanding that they do the opposite of what the Spanish Government does. You in the laziness, this government in action and legislation. You in the disaster, this government in regulatory stability. You - PP and VOX - in uncertainty, this government in trust for our country, for the business and for the working people. [[Applauds]] So I can only conclude this intervention by thanking all those who have always been at the foot of the canyon by marking this new law; a law that is called to become the heart that pumps a powerful productive system with strong companies and with working people with decent career paths. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs Peña. I give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister of Labour.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u69	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I would like to address this House in order to do something that I believe we have not yet done here, and it is to thank all the staff, employees and public employees, all the public service of SEPE, the Labour Inspectorate, the Treasury General of our country, who are left behind to improve the living conditions of workers, workers and businesses. I say this, because I have heard many things in your speeches and, unfortunately, in the face of a past in which you have suffered, I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and of the right, ladies and gentlemen of the right-wings of this House, cuts in more than three thousand troops, are being left behind for our country. [[A honourable Member: Ladies and gentlemen...-Rumores]] I would therefore like to begin this intervention by thanking all public employees. [[Applauds]] Secondly, I would like to thank all the political parties represented in this House who have understood the importance of this rule. Thank you. True, you have said it, it is probably a rule that is the result of consensus and, like all the rules that are the result of consensus, it never fully satisfies us; but I do thank you because I believe that the exercise we have made, in an intense debate, is fruitful for our country today. I would also like to thank the Autonomous Communities. You have said this: this rule is complex. Many of the issues we are addressing have constitutional discussions that I believe we have resolved in full compliance with the constitutional mandate. Therefore, yes, I also thank all the autonomous communities that have worked on this rule and have also explained to us good exercises and good practices. Let me tell you that, sometimes, listening to what is said in this House causes some sadness. I have heard here that this rule is not going to do any good. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Spanish and the Spanish must be told that we are here to improve their lives and, above all, we must be told that, probably with imperfections, we make the rules for further progress. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have a constitutional mandate: Article 40. I remind you, sometimes we forget, that the Spanish constituent wants us to work for public policies that move towards full employment. I say to you that this must be the challenge of this House and not just this, but also to reach the levels of occupation that Europe has. I believe that this must be the firm will of the House, let us think of each of the political formations as we think. I say that this is the key to this rule and I know perfectly well that the objective is difficult because of the unemployment rates in our country, but the Government of Spain, together with the groups that have always had, of course, the collaboration and the hand extended, together with the social actors, we have wanted, yes, to improve the lives of the people. The transformation of SEPE is a great challenge. Mrs Muñoz, with all the affection, we are investing EUR 170 million for the digitisation and modernisation of a public service. Please, let's not say what we say here. Let's try to change people's lives. They are not of the Government of Spain, are of public employees and are rights of Spanish citizens. Therefore, let us value what we are doing. I know very well that the challenge of transforming this agency is high, but I believe that, for the first time, we are, at least commonly, right in the transformation of active employment policies with one aim: to improve employability in our country, to improve intermediation. It seems to me that this is the only important thing. We have results. I could talk about many autonomous communities. Some do so better than others in this area, indicating that the public policies that we clearly deploy matter. I therefore believe that this rule looks to the future today, looks to Article 40 of the Spanish Constitution, looks to Europe and, of course, I remain with the intention that, despite what I have heard here, we do want to move forward and improve with this law the employability, the future, in short, of the workers of our country. I say again here that the right to work exists in our Constitution and it is a duty of the public authorities to guarantee to the men and women of our country. I do not resist, Mr. Movellán, to tell you that I presume in public officials to handle a hundred of the data. I say this because what you do is pretty serious. When you rebel against the institutionality of data, you are putting democracy at stake. I think there are ways of doing politics and opposing, but, of course, questioning statistics in a country is very serious. The data you have given on the number of hours worked are false, as is also the partiality rate in Spain. [[Mr. Movellán Lombilla makes negative gestures]] Review the EPA, Mr. Movellan; review the EPA. Please, as a common good, learn to do politics differently and not do what you have done today. However, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I am grateful that your position in this rule, at least, is not to hinder it. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u70	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u71	We move on to the next point. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the bill on the real and effective equality of trans persons and on the guarantee of the rights of LGBT persons. Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I believe that the law that will then be passed will not improve the lives of people in Spain. I think it's a wrong law, I think it's miswritten and I think it's going to give you trouble in the future. Apart from saying this I - who, of course, am not an expert in this matter - have said so many experts, many collectives, many people, many professionals who are dedicated to this subject and who have warned it. And why am I saying this? Because I think it is time, before the law is passed, to start to see who is going to be responsible when this law does not bear the fruits that are expected and gives problems, as has happened in those countries that put in place measures similar to these and that at the moment are turning back on them, and they have already warned of the problems that can generate a bill like the one being debated today. That is why I think it would be good for anyone who speaks on behalf of the Government to say whether or not he assumes responsibility for the failure of the rule, so that it does not happen to us as with the law of the alone is yes, what the President of the Government said that it was a fantastic and wonderful law and now says to him that they register him, that Mrs Montero is the culprit of the disguised one and that he has nothing to do with it. Which, of course, I do not share, because I believe that it is obviously Mr Sánchez who is responsible, who is the President of the Government and who allows this law to be passed. Therefore, it would be good for all those who are going to pass this bill to say whether they will then be responsible for the failure of the bill, so that we are not throwing the balls at each other to see who is guilty. It is more important at this time to address the guilt of the failure of this law than the medals that the Government can put on it. It is not going to be that then, as is happening with all those who are going out on the street - there are already more than five hundred cases of people who have committed crimes related to sexual freedom - of people who are on the street no one wants to be responsible. In short, we say today that this law is going to fail, that it is going to cause problems, that it is not going to achieve the objectives it seeks, or even yes, of course, the same as the objectives that the Government is going to achieve; but we understand that they are wrong and therefore ask who is the person of the Government who is responsible for the failure of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u73	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, I have the floor, Mrs Pozueta Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u74	Thank you, President. Madam Minister. Egun where you're going. Today we will pass in this Chamber two laws commonly known as trans law and abortion law, which will mark a historic milestone in the fight for rights for trans people and the LGBTI collective and for all women. Unfortunately, we do so immersed in the noise of the extreme right and the extreme right one day yes and another, which, with their inflamed and distorted speeches, totally distort reality; confuse citizens; and encourage attitudes of hatred towards those who do not share their approaches. In addition, paradoxically, one of these formations is being presented as a champion of women's defence. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you as defenders of women and freedom! The world upside down. When they have taken advantage of all the opportunities to put sticks on the wheels during the course of the processing of these two laws. Look at where they've been wanting to appear as defenders of women's struggles for a few weeks when the right has historically been the one who has put the most obstacles in the advancement of women's rights and all those people who come out of the normative framework of sexuality. And now, too. And on you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, there would be much to comment on in the same matter. These laws - I say again - make it possible for rights to advance and no one loses theirs in development. But I'm not going to invest my time in you anymore. As I said at first, today is a historic day and it is more worth appreciating in the positive, besides celebrating it. We've already talked a lot about both laws, so I'm not going to get into their content, even if it's very important, but I will talk about their symbolic burden. These two laws have a lot in common, they are laws that represent a recognition of rights for the collectives who have passed and continue to pass through paths of common struggle and who in many moments have found the same bed, that of the feminist struggle. To support these laws is to recognize the historical demands of the feminist movement, the right to free and free abortion, and the right to manage the body that belongs to us, in addition to the recognition that everyone lives their sexuality, desires and identity from an approach of freedom and diversity. All this has involved years of struggle on the street and in areas of society; struggle that has been worth it, let us never forget. But, let's not settle down because, unfortunately, day by day we see that despite the laws, much remains to be done to live in equality and sexual freedom. A few days ago I read an interview with a trans woman, who acknowledged that in the Spanish State there has been an ostensibly advanced approach to tolerance on many issues that come out of the normative of the patriarchal system, but that there is a long way to go to reach the goal of respect, as we have seen here. Those who tolerate it often do so with a look from above, with the idea that they grant a permit from their pedestal. Its own definition says it: the effect of bearing something patiently. Since there is no other, learn to tolerate. However, he who respects looks directly into the eyes, without pedestal. That is why we will continue to pay attention, to extend this respect and to ensure that it does not go back on rights, as some and some of them claim. Let us celebrate what has been achieved and continue to work, in the struggle for a freer, fairer and, ultimately, more feminist society. Mila esker. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u75	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Agirretxea Urresti has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister. Ladies and gentlemen. I speak from the seat very briefly, because today we conclude, as has been mentioned here, an important law, a law that I believe will give rights to people who did not have them. It is therefore a day of congratulations, and it is a very important step that we have taken. The Basque Nationalist Party has and has had a political commitment to transgender and transgender people and their most representative associations. We also have to say that for us this is a law that adds rights and does not stand up against anyone, but in favour of people. No rest, it's a sum, it doesn't divide. Therefore, despite what some people and collectives say, this law aims to multiply. The Act had three basic initial objectives: firstly, to guarantee and promote the right to real and effective equality of lesbian, gay, transgender, bisexual and intersex persons and their families; secondly, to re-establish the principles of public action by regulating the rights and duties of natural and legal persons, both public and private, by providing for specific measures to prevent, correct, eliminate in the political, public and private spheres; and thirdly, to regulate the procedure and requirements for the registration of gender and, where appropriate, the names of persons, by providing for specific measures resulting from such correction. These are the three fundamental objectives of this law, and I believe that part has been achieved. In that sense, in this debate and in the previous ones we have had on this subject, the truth is that on the part of those who have always been against these issues - not some who live on another planet, I am referring to this side - the content is not so much being questioned, the legal technique, the rulings are being questioned... [[points to the parliamentary groups on their left in the Chamber]] All right, that's progress. It's progress. I prefer to see it from the perspective of the half full bottle; that is, we are moving forward. Every time you get this kind of social progress, rights, etc., it's to stay, you don't go back. And all those who at first question themselves or'rebat, when then they get, usually - and fortunately - stay, which I think is the positive of advanced societies. Finally, I would like to say that last Sunday I was approached by the mother of a trans girl and she thanked me warmly for the work we have done. The truth is, I was surprised and then I thought something would have done right. We'll have done something right. I here heard in the last debate someone talking about the tear that families suffer when they force people. No, tearing suffers when they can't be what they want to be and what they feel they are. That is the tear they suffer, and fortunately there are people who have families who protect them and help them to be what they want to be. There are those who advocate that people and peoples have to be what they want to be and that there are no laws to prevent them. Therefore, this is a law that allows. Thank you all. I hope that this law will apply to both the collectives and the people who have fought for their rights for so long. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u77	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u78	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Citizens we have always argued that our country should be a reference in the area of the freedoms of LGBTI and trans people. In fact, we have always been a party with a clear commitment in this regard, because there is nothing more liberal than ensuring that no one gets into anyone's private life and that every person can live their sexuality in full freedom. Today I especially want to greet and congratulate the LGBT and trans movement that accompanies us for their struggle and their claim in the recognition of their rights. In fact, we have always been pioneers in advances in the rights and freedoms of LGBTI and trans people. We have shared your concern, your fears and have also witnessed your progress and your struggles through the work we have done when we have been ruling in different autonomous communities, we have even received that recognition of our work for the Transsexual Association. In addition, today I want to make you aware and share with all of you some of the concerns of real inequality still experienced by LGBTI and trans people: 80% of trans people are unemployed, 70% of trans people at work have had to hide their identity, 44% of LGBT people, when faced with a job interview, hide their gender identity; and hate crimes against LGBT people have increased by 70%. These are realities of real inequality that he encouraged to continue working on, in addition to having this legislative tool, because it means that we have much to go on in terms of real equality and combating hate crimes against LGBTI and trans people in our country. When the Government announced that it was working on a law to move forward on this path, clearly in Citizens we got to work, because we believe that we must facilitate the lives of trans people and contribute as much as possible to enable them to live their identity in freedom, without discrimination or abuse or inequality. But I must say that the Government has not lived up to this task, and has not only used the law in a partisan manner, but has not given priority to the defence and protection of trans persons. That has not been their priority, but the survival of the coalition. I must recall the disputes between the coalition parties, between PSOE and Podemos, in this matter. The Ministry of Equality has not been able to establish comprehensive, comprehensive and guaranteed legislation for trans-nationals. The text you have proposed leaves some matters unresolved. When we regulate matters of equality, we must regulate in a courageous way, and not only regulate progress, which does have this law, many progress, but also those matters that are more complex, because there is no need at any time to generate legal uncertainty. I think it is important that there is no legal uncertainty. I think it was important not to deal with this law in an urgent way. I think it was important that there had been appearances and that there had been more work in presenting amendments and seeking consensus in this House. In Citizens we believe that it is very important to facilitate the change of the registered sex without the need to go through hormonal procedures, which can be counterproductive in many cases and which are a terrible burden for so many trans people in our country. After all, we are pioneers convinced that administrations should make life easier for citizens and not require people to make life easier for administrations. Alongside this situation of record change without the need to go through hormonal procedures, it also seems to us another great advance, and I am also proud to say it, the depathology of people LGTBI and trans. It was time, ladies and gentlemen, for it to be established and said in a firm and high way that LGBTI and trans people are not mentally ill. I am saying this because some of the ladies in this House still consider LGBTI and trans people to be mentally ill! It's an aberration, ladies and gentlemen! What we have always regretted has been the way of doing things on the part of the Government, because we believe that greater guarantees should have been offered to some of the proposals we made from Citizens, such as accompanying minors by their families if it were necessary, even by third parties, to give them the necessary support in a procedure that we consider to be of great personal relevance. That is where we believe that greater legal certainty should have been given. We also believe that it is a timid, unambitious and unwarranted law in the regulation of health treatments. So that there would be no inequality between communities. When a LGBT person or others need health treatments there should be no inequality in access to them. We proposed that a minimum protocol should be established through the inter-territorial committee, but this type of health guarantee has not been offered either. The Government has preferred this law not to go into jeopardy, because they have enough to deal with the problems of the coalition. The alleged differences of the PSOE and Podemos have been limited to certain slogans. I think we should have some clear ideas: trans women are women and the rights of trans people are human rights. I have very clearly, as a woman and as a feminist, that the fight for trans women is my fight. At no time should we tremble or establish a timid position, or counter the struggle for the equality of women, as if it were parceled, with the struggle for trans women. No, ladies and gentlemen. One must give integrality and one must firmly defend the struggle of trans women, who are aware that they are living in a situation of much greater vulnerability. We must be up to it. In Citizens we will continue to rise to the challenge of defending and promoting the rights of vulnerable groups and people who are clearly trans. And what I would have liked was greater rigour, a different proposal from the ministry itself, from the government itself, which, above all, generates social cohesion in the area of equality, because, if not, what we are causing are social setbacks. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u79	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u80	Thank you very much, President. Today we definitively adopt four laws that guarantee the rights of women, workers, trans and LGBTI people, and citizens who denounce corruption, and we adopt them with a progressive majority. There have been many, many laws, and they can be more. We still have housing and gags and, however, the noise ends up burying all the work that has been done in these three years in a mudhole that embarrasses everything and gives wings to the right and to the right. That is why the progressive majority of this country, citizens, ask the Government to close the law of the single country once and for all with a consensus proposal. We cannot allow excessive noise to prevent us from claiming the nuts of laws that guarantee rights and measures to help people, such as trans law. The right and a part of the PSOE predicted all sorts of catastrophes, such as the disappearance of women and the risk to sports competitions. None of that. Seven years ago the Valencian Courts passed one of the most advanced trans laws in Europe, and nothing has been deleted, just transphobia; only rights have been written. And once again, reality will pass over this cowardly PP that always erases... [[Several Members: Hey, hey!-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please. [[Protests]] Silence! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u82	...that erases all rights... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u83	Wait a minute, Your Honor. Wait a minute. [[Protests]] Ladies and gentlemen, silence! If you want to take the floor, you can take it. So shut up and let the speaker continue to speak. [[Protests]] Silence! Quiet. Go on, and finish, Mr. Baldoví, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u84	Coward to recognize rights. [[Rumors]] Thanks to trans people and their families for their courage, for persisting, for believing; thanks to the LGTB movement; to the autonomous communities that have supported and adopted trans laws; and to a whole society proud of its diversity, which does not want a past of hatred, nor of signaling. The law is the law. Congratulations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mr Miquel and Valenti have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u86	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have a minute and a half to say a lot of things. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude to the collectives and platforms that have been fighting for this to be definitively approved today. Secondly, minister, from the deepest ideological distance, today you have listed a group of women who have made history in the struggle and the battle for equality, but I believe that you today incorporate this law into that list. I'm telling you, I know, and they know it up there too. Therefore, from the ideological distance, as I say, thank you for the work done. [[Applauds]] With the seconds I have left, let me focus quickly on those who have not helped or believed that this law should be passed at the door of an electoral campaign. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposite of freedom is not socialism, the opposite of freedom is authoritarianism, which finds in socialism one of its derivatives, although authoritarianism has a derivative that equally seems to you a little more sympathetic than socialism. Because freedom, ladies and gentlemen, is getting us a beer; freedom is that trans people in this country have work to get access to a home; freedom is that trans people can afford that beer, and this law works to make this happen. In short, the day will come when everything will become normal, and you will have trans people on this bench. And you are not going to find any reproach in me or in my group, as there was not when there were divorces, when there were abortions, when there were equal marriages, because, even if you do not participate in these victories of freedom and liberalism, we facilitate them, give them to you, and we celebrate that you enjoy them, because those liberal battles are to enjoy them, to celebrate them and to generate rights, equality and freedom. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u88	Thank you, President. Despite the last effort made in the Senate to improve rights, young people between the ages of 12 and 14 who want to change the mention of their sex in the Civil Registry will have to submit to voluntary jurisdiction. For the PSOE and for the right, the word of these minors is not enough to prove that their transsexuality is stable, and a judge will decide for them. We are talking about a change in the record that is also reversible, not surgery or hormonal treatment. It has not been useful to recall that international human rights conventions call for no age limits in self-determination, because they violate the right to free development of personality. This had been one of the priorities of the Trans Platform, with Mar Cambrollé at the front, and of course also Euforia. Mothers and parents of trans boys and girls know how important it is to trust them, because they know what they are, they know what they want and they know what they feel. We thank you for the support you have given us. You have been an example of tenacity, of persistence, of resistance and also, we must say, of patience. Thank you for sharing. Also thanks to the Observers against the LGTBifóbia and Eugeni Rodríguez in the front. The LGTB collective continues to need us to denounce injustices, to accompany victims of aggression, to confront populism, to get out of the way, in the face of the aggravation of chaos...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u89	Your Honor, please go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u90	...who have accompanied the entire process of law and are going to keep pulling fake news. Noise. The important thing is that this law aims to effectively improve the situation of people in the LGTBI collective, especially trans, who are most discriminated against in all areas of their lives. But the fight for equality does not end here, we are far away. Forty-four years ago, homosexuality ceased to be considered a crime in the Spanish State...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u91	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u92	... and eighteen years ago - I'm finished -, the gay marriage law was passed, but until three days ago - until three days ago - no League footballer had dared to make his homosexuality public. This shows that we are still far from equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u93	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. I see a lot of familiar faces. Thank you very much for your presence. I want to pay a tribute from here to an amazing woman named Carla Antonelli, and another amazing woman named Mar Cambrollé, and to all the others, to 'everybody'. Today, again, the Republican Group brings to this rostrum the voice of LGBTI people and, this time, through the words of a trans woman. I am absolutely convinced that they reflect the feeling of everyone today. Today is a historic day for trans people, LGTBI, society and, without a doubt, for institutions that pay off a debt that democracy had with trans people and, of course, for this country, which becomes a reference in Europe. I'm saying words that are not mine, they're words of a trans woman, I didn't say before that I would open quotes, but I open them now: 'The trans people put the body in all the struggles that contributed to bringing sexual freedom, we were the most mistreated of the dictatorship and the great forgotten of democracy. Getting here has not been easy for trans people and their families, who have been exposed to a fierce campaign of violence based on bulls and prejudices that have orchestrated the most reactionary sectors, the same ones that have opposed the advancement in rights for women, although now, cynically, they want to make seem like feminists, always settled in denialism. With the sole intention of intoxicating society, they have placed the most vulnerable people on the target of hate speech and aggression; nevertheless, indicators and surveys have always repeated the same: the great support of society for trans law. And, segregating by gender, women are the ones who have manifested the most empathy. This fact disassembles those who believe the voices and spokespeople of all women and, even, makes it clear that it has been perverse to use the name of feminism for this deplorable campaign of hatred and reactionism towards trans people. Today Spain is a better country and we owe it to the tireless struggle of the collectives, who have also given a great example of unity. A unit that has also arrived at Congress, enabling the human rights bloc of trans people that, on the contrary, has revealed who is solely responsible for leaving this law to be realities that, sooner or later, will also be recognized, and so it will be: non-binaries, trans migrants and respect as a constitutional right to rectification of the name and gender in minors, in accordance with Constitutional Court ruling 99 of 2019. It is surprising that for this brake and obstacle to the law the PSOE has imposed its will with the support of the right and the right, something that trans people and families will never forget. Ladies and gentlemen, legal frameworks are needed to ensure equal opportunities for trans and LGTBI people and to protect against discrimination. This law was necessary to repair the injustices experienced by LGBT people, but with more virulence by trans people. This law was necessary to shield rights and extend them to those who do not have them, but society, as always, advances the Executive and the Legislature. Our society has made great social and cultural changes; it has changed the glasses of prejudice and its look today is transpositive. Today we have changed the expulsions of the family nucleus, the punishments, the beatings, for love, understanding and accompaniment. Today, autonomous laws have enabled protocols that respect trans identities and protect us from harassment in educational institutions. Today they have recycled their relationship with trans people a large number of professionals from social work, psychology, sexology, teaching. Trans identities are part of human diversity and will never again be a pathology. One of the most important changes is that only a decade ago 80% of adolescent threesomes ended up in a corner and today, ladies and gentlemen, they are in college. This is the best satisfaction for those who were expelled from the light of day, condemned to a clandestine existence, for those who died in exile thousands of kilometres from a family that had forgotten them. Today, at last, it has dawned with the names of all those who died without seeing them recognized written on all the walls of our country. All those who have taken a step forward in defending our rights feel pride, because your step forward is true pride. You will be able to look us in the eye; you will not have to bend your head. Be proud of all the parliamentary groups and political forces that you have pushed to our side, because that is the real transforming force of politics at the service of the people. And pride is what trans people and our families feel for the Minister of Equality, who has faced the reaction with the courage to assume the cost of hate and the determination not to abandon, knowing that it was not only the right, but the most decent. Irene, the debt is with you now. [[Applauds]] To the trans people and families who have endured the terrible storm that has surrounded our lives in recent years, I want to tell you that always, after the storm, the rainbow comes out. People and diversity come to bring color to a world that will never return to the dark times of Francoism'. Mar Cambrolllé, historical activist, president of the Trans Platform Federation and Women of the Year Award. Thank you so much and it's coming for you. [[Addressing the guest gallery]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u95	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, in a mistake on my part, I have left Mrs Calvo a minute and a half and asked her to continue her intervention if she wished to do so. Excuse me. Mrs Calvo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u96	Thank you, President. Initially, I had said I didn't need to, but it turns out that it's not my time, it's yours, so I accept that minute and a half that was pending. [[Addressing the guest gallery]] Because I wanted to share the case - and I have already heard it - that, after forty-four years of LGTBI law, only three days ago a footballer has recognized himself as a homosexual, and I want to say publicly that I am ashamed to listen again to expressions like 'has confessed his homosexuality', as if it were a sin, or to accept with normality that he is described as brave, because no one should have to be. And because, by analyzing his words, we realize how many explanations we don't deserve he's giving us. These are: 'Like everyone else, I have strengths, I have weaknesses, I have a family, I have friends, I have a job in which I have done my best for years, with professionalism and passion. Like everyone else, I also want to live my life in freedom. Without fear, without prejudice, without violence, but with love.' 'I'm gay and I don't want to hide anymore.' In 2018 she also decided to do the same for Barça Mapi León. They can both play proudly now. I hope that we too can continue to defend with pride, responsibility and commitment what we vote for, knowing that we are helping to make the world fairer and freer. Ladies and gentlemen, minister, there will be trans law. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u97	Thank you very much and I apologize, Mrs. Calvo. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs García Puig.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u98	Thank you, President. Good morning. Today is an important day and I dare to add that it is a beautiful day, because we finally passed the law trans and LGTBI definitely. Feminist Gloria Steinem said that feminism is memory and, as this is a feminist law, it is obliged to honor Steinem and remember how we have come here. The first stop of this memory is obliged to thank the tireless struggle of the LGTB movements and their activists, who have put the body and their emotional well-being in defense of this law, paying unfair consequences in many cases. The names are endless, I see many faces. I will allow myself to quote two brave women who have already been quoted, but who have paid a high price for their struggle, which are Mar Cambrollé and Carla Antonelli, but the names are so many. [[applause]] For all of them, my recognition. The memory continues in the early days of Congress, when my parliamentary group, from the opposition, registered this law. When we arrived at the Government, it was clear that it was one of the laws we wanted to push harder. Irene, I remember it as if it were yesterday when you took office, and I don't know if you'll remember that in a hallway you grabbed me by the arm and you firmly told me: it'll be law, we'll do it. Because, in this memory, Minister Irene Montero plays a fundamental role: she has done so, she and the entire Ministry of Equality have done so, which have fought to the end, despite the attacks of unjust and angry oppositions and speeches that, sheltered under a supposed debate, were pure violence, political violence. The ministry, with Irene Montero at the front, has not yielded and has taught us many - I too - the courage to stand firm. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]] Some say that the people of the Ministry of Equality have a reputation for being obsessed. The name Bibiana Aido has come out here earlier, with which this saga of ridicule and infantilization of the ministers of Equality, which with Irene Montero has already reached unsuspected quotas, has already begun. Well, I don't just think it's a lie that the people of the Ministry of Equality are obsessed, but, as I said, it's a way to ridicule and infantilize fighting women. But they do have another reputation that has been won at hand, which is the fame of determination, conviction and struggle, and this law, among many others, is a proof of that. Here too I want to make a special mention - I see it up there - my dear friend Boti García Rodrigo, Director General of Sexual Diversity and LGBTI Rights, Angela Rodríguez Pam, Secretary of State, and Sofia Fernández Castañón, battle companions in this law. [[Applauds]] My speech today wants to celebrate the best future that awaits us thanks to this law, but we must also remember the suffering of the past. I cannot fail to mention the trans-murdered woman last week in my city, in Barcelona, at the hands of the man with whom she had a sentimental relationship; a victim of macho violence who, although identified as a woman and lived as a woman, had officially not made the sex change in the register, so she will not go on to add to the figures of the macho murders. Until recently, we had a pathological law that stopped people who wanted to change their sex. Fortunately, this is no longer the case, and women such as Sandra have guaranteed free gender self-determination and more rights and resources to deal with the macho violence, which does not give them a truce either. The other day Mrs. Ayuso presented us with a new lack of respect for LGBT people and reality; she blamed this law without any shame for the increase in suicides and depressions between adolescence. It's fake, and she knows it, but she doesn't care. It is exclusion, rejection and stigmatization that causes depression and suicide, and this law, which comes to stay - warning the lords of VOX and the lords of the PP: this law comes to stay - will give them recognition and rights. It is social isolation and low self-esteem, prejudice and discrimination, bullying, intimidation, ill-treatment and public policies such as those promoted by right-wing groups that, according to the rigorous and prestigious studies that you strive to ignore, increase the prevalence of mental health problems among LGBTI people. This is fought with laws like this, with laws like this and, yes, with a public health capable of responding to the emotional problems of our adolescence. Here it is obliged to send all support to the citizens of Madrid and their struggle for public health. You're a reference. [[Applauds]] They will allow me to set an example of the importance of this law and of the importance of public health, and they will allow me to set a very close example. My nephew and son Jay, a 15-year-old trans boy, suffered a depression, like so many of our teens, during the pandemic; a depression that was most likely caused by the discrimination that trans teens suffer. It was certainly aggravated by this. Thanks to public health, the specialized care of mental health professionals with specific training and respect for trans reality, Jay went ahead. We are not going to allow you and your fellow People's Party, Mrs Ayuso, or your ultra-right accomplices to risk the lives of people like my nephew Hay, or to break some of the best consensus in our society that have made our country a world leader, and the rights of LGBTI people who guarantee this law are among them. Because a country where LGBTI people can be without fear is a better country. We must be clear. The fight for LGBTI rights is also a feminist, anti-racist and social justice struggle.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u99	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u100	The corporal. I end with a quote from trans activist Lourdes Ashley Hunter, who said a few years ago that every time a black trans woman breathes she's making a small revolution. Let us therefore continue to revolutionize the world - minister, activists - so that existence without fear and in fullness must never again be a heroic act. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Ruiz Solás has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u102	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, last October, the Minister for Equality, Mrs Irene Montero, said triumphant in this very rostrum, with the pride of those who know that she is in numerical superiority, that we had lost this debate before we started it because this law will be definitively approved by this House. But that's not true, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, this law will be passed, but they lose all hope that we will give this debate for lost. This debate will never be lost. Never, never, never as long as VOX has representation in this House and never as long as the millions of Spaniards whom VOX represents continue to have the courage to plant in front of their delusions. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have never opposed nor will we ever oppose the recognition of any rights, either of the trans collective, of the LGTBI collective, or of any other collective in our country, which means that you lie, that you deliberately lie when you say so. Therefore, when they proclaim that the Spanish State does not guarantee the rights of trans and LGBTI people, they never specify what rights these citizens do not have guaranteed, they never list them and never tell us; they never tell them because they cannot, because it is not true, because what you want the State to guarantee them are not rights, but desires. You confuse rights with desires. You deceive people by making them believe that everything they want, that everything they want, they have the right to have it, and that's a big lie. [[Applauds]] Desires, however strong they may be, however understandable they may be, however justified they may be, are not rights and the State has neither the capacity nor the obligation to guarantee them. But since you do not believe in the rule of law, or in individual freedom, or in freedom of thought, or in freedom of opinion, as you believe is that the only truth is yours and that you must impose on others by tortically using the powers of the State, here we are enduring totalitarian impositions that want to make us swallow by force of indoctrination and, what is much worse, seeing how they feed hatred among us. Because it is you and only you who believe that thinking differently is hating, that not agreeing with something or someone is hating, and hating, ladies and gentlemen, is a very serious thing, hating is the worst thing a human being can do, hating is wanting evil to someone. Don't they realize the responsibility they have when they tell the trans collective and the LGTBI collective that we hate them, that we are homophobes and transfugos? Do you really believe that we, who have in our families and among our friends people from these groups, whom we love and who we care about, wish them evil? How can you use politics for this, to confront us in this way? [[Applauds]] You are the ones who encourage hatred by fuelling this confrontation, when the reality is that if we oppose your laws it is only because they seem to us bad laws. To say that we do it because we hate the collective to which they are directed is perverse, because unfortunately that drops in many people, many people believe it. Disagree, ladies and gentlemen, is not hate. [[Applauds]] To expose medical and scientific arguments that disarm their theories is not to spread bubbles, and to fight to guarantee development, the right to health and a life worthy of all Spanish citizens, whatever their condition, is an obligation that we will never renounce. So no, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not want to allow a child to hormoneize and mutate his body without knowing what he is doing is not to hate; that we believe that a child should not make certain decisions until he is an adult or tell an adult that he should know the consequences of the decisions he makes is not to hate; to believe that it is crazy to encourage transsexuality and homosexuality as a solution to avoid discrimination, as you want to do, it is not to hate; to believe that doing so among children is not to hate; to believe that it is corruption of minors is not to hate; to believe that the alarming increase in cases of homosexuality and transsexuality that is occurring in recent years is directly related to the indoctrination to which you are subject to minors and that, by suggestion and imitation, it is addressed to be what is best they are neither willing nor willing to be and what is going to regret the rest of their life is not to hate; to believe that it is more logical to try to reconcile the people with the abuse of life, and to suppress their own self-susherself self-sisterable medicine. [[applause]] It is not to hate, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite the opposite, it is to ensure their physical and emotional integrity; it is to show that we are concerned, that we are very concerned, that we are concerned about their health, that we are concerned about their lives, that we are concerned about their future. Ladies and gentlemen, in the fight against discrimination that trans and LGBTI people may suffer because of their sexual status, as well as in the fight against any kind of discrimination, they will always have us by their side, but not by this path, which is the road to the destruction of the person. [[Applauds]] And no, ladies and gentlemen, it is not to hate anyone to report that if the law allows for sex change without the need for hormonal treatment or genital surgery, that if we devote ourselves to offering advantages of all kinds to encourage sex change, that if we so irresponsiblely banalize sex change, the number of biological males living as women will multiply and the woman will cease to exist as a biological category for all purposes. You are turning feminism into a weapon to end the biological category of women. It is you who are removing all meaning from the struggle for our rights as women, allowing men to be so without any condition whatsoever. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not use people as you do, we are honest with them, we do not deceive them by guaranteeing them that we will give them what they want in return for their vote, even though we know that what they want is not good for them, as you do. We can't do that. It's not all for us. Ladies and gentlemen, this law of yours may meet the expectations of those who believe that they will be happier if their wishes are recognised as rights, but what is certain is that it will not serve to end the discrimination with which we are determined to end neither the suffering of trans and LGBTI people. So no, ladies and gentlemen, neither wishes are rights nor this debate is lost, nor is there an apex of hatred in our opposition to this law. What there is, ladies and gentlemen, is the sincere and honest conviction of how harmful and perverse this law can become, a sincere and honest conviction that...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u103	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u104	Term, I've got very little left. ... a sincere and honest conviction that it will bring no more rights, but more pain and suffering, a sincere and honest conviction that it will forever destroy the lives of many people, the lives of many children and adolescents, the lives of many families. I'm on my way. From that honest and sincere conviction we tell them that we will not only not support this law, but that, if God wills, we will repeal it very soon, because only with VOX there is hope. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u105	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ruiz. For the People's Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Moro Almaraz.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Minister Montero, Mr Sánchez, seems to be lying, but in these months they have learned nothing. Life is learning and people's generosity is immense, but not infinite, and with greater reason when you, despite your oaths, people, women, minors, victims, do not care. We see that they are the ones who make good that only the human being stumbles twice on the same stone. You, Minister, and the Sánchez Government, who endorse it and even give it reason, although we already know that you are aware that you do not have it, do not tire of tripping. We would not have to worry about your setbacks if your consequences began and ended in you, but it is that your setbacks and apprehensions harm the Spaniards, especially the children and the women, and this is indeed the responsibility of all of us, because discriminating and warning is not, as you stated yesterday in the control session, a speech of hatred, an obligation and a right. [[Applauds]] People don't need President Sánchez to say again in three months that we actually have a problem with changing the law. We're not going to experiment with people. We do not want, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, that days after this law is published in the BOE, to begin a new and unbearable count of victims, a remake of the law of the only one is yes. Look at Scotland and the chief minister, who resigned, from the point of view of duty, because it is the right decision for the country; Scotland, where an overwhelming majority of its citizens reject a trans law that lowers the age for gender self-determination to sixteen years without a medical diagnosis, where they live with the recent controversy of the trans prisoner accused of double rape who came to be in women's prison. And your resignation for when, minister? [[Applauds]] Throughout our national process, we have seen only a gesture of dignity among its ranks that must be thanked, such as that of the socialist senator. All our respect. Ladies and gentlemen, they continue with fireworks to conceal the gravity of the consequences of this wrong and harmful law, despite the many warnings. Not agreeing with their wrong laws does not mean being against transgender people and LGBTI or their rights. It's so absurd and there's so much evidence to the contrary that it's boring to have to prove it. [[Applauds]] No matter how much they try, no matter how much they come to attack you and my party, as they have done with judges, experts and feminists, they will not be right. My colleague and friend, Jaime de los Santos, made it meridianly clear to him in the Senate, and they have also dedicated themselves to attacking mercilessly. All our respect, Jaime, for your courage and your testimony. [[Applauds]] We are together in the goal of making a good law, which the Spaniards deserve. When we are attacked for being women, men, gays, lesbians, for being mothers, parents, for defending women, for defending minors, anyone, who wants anyone, whoever it is, the Spaniards must be very alarmed, because, as Martin Niemöller said in his well-known poem, which I reproduce only in part: When they came to look for the trade unionists, I did not protest, because I was not a trade unionist. When they came to take the Jews, I did not protest, since I was not a Jew. When they came to get me, there was no one else who could protest. We are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, about their attitudes and they will not silence us, because, even if one rule does not have to affect some of us, if it is not the right one for others, here we are to raise the voice for all, for the general interest. If we remain silent because we are accused of transfugos, when we are not, and we do not denounce the serious defects and the harmful consequences of this law, it may one day be too late for anyone to protest and repair the damage caused. [[Applauds]] I have asked many women if they were happy because from now on they would be pregnant parents and not mothers, and above all I see tearing. Yes, tearing up mothers with tremendous experiences of their children repented for irrevocable decisions. Nor do I understand how it helps LGBTI and transgender people to establish a presumption of guilt on the part of parents or health professionals. On behalf of my group, I ask you to stop this law that is harmful to the most vulnerable. I appeal to the Government to withdraw this draft before this debate is concluded, and to the Socialist Group to demand it with us. We have all heard references from countries that are turning back because they now know that they have rushed and that this has cost a lot of suffering. Let's not go through the same thing. I could refer to many - I do not have time - but there is an essential testimony, that of rapporteur Reem Alsalem, UN Special Rapporteur on violence against women and girls. You, who pay so much attention to the rapporteurs of the United Nations, why not her? She says many things, but above all that the right to non-discrimination of any gender identity does not mean that there should be no safeguards, objective criteria, and that it cannot depend solely on the will of the individual. Nor does the European Court of Human Rights endorse it. There is a great contradiction, considering rape when minors want to marry or subject them to marriage; however, these same minors are not going to have any guarantees for this decision now. Anyway, she calls for debate with everyone, with everyone, but here there is only imposition. We will have to wait for irreversible problems, for those children to lose their future. Don't sell, Mrs. Montero, this law is a success and progress. Don't laugh at the tears they cause. And I appeal to those who defend in part or in all this law, because I believe they have sensitivity. Don't be selfish because you've suffered. We know that, but now there are going to be others who suffer under this law.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u107	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u108	Come with us, because there is no space of freedom without space of coexistence. For all this, and being the voice of those whom the Government has not wanted to hear: not to this law, not to this new one it is. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, some of them standing up.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u109	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Pedraja Sainz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u110	Thank you very much, President. I would like to begin by thanking Marisol and Arnau, my fellow rapporteurs; the other rapporteurs of all the parliamentary groups for the work we have done in this House; Sara Mateos and Victor Gutiérrez; all the groups, both national and regional, because thanks to them we are here today; and, in particular, my friend and colleague, Andrea Fernández, for having always been a hand stretched out. Thank you, because everyone has made him very happy in this rostrum today; very happy for Uge, for Mané, for Mar, for José María, for Ignacio, for Toño, for Federico, for Eva, and for so many activists and citizens of this country who today see their rights improved, who today see Spain as a better country. [[Applauds]] A country that is fairer, more egalitarian and more respectful of its diversity; a country that today recognizes that lesbian women's couples do not have to be married to be able to register their children in the Civil Registry and that eliminates the great discrimination that these people suffer and that prevented them from developing their families. A country that today recognizes that it is necessary to train the staff who serve our elders in all the LGTB realities that exist, because our older LGTB have the right to have safe environments that protect them. A country that cares about all people who suffer from sinogarism, also all those LGBT people who live in this situation. Therefore, it is proposed to study the causes of sinogarism and its needs. Above all, it is a country determined to combat hate crimes and to protect all those who suffer it. A country that also cares about its young LGBT, that wants to promote associationism as a tool for the inclusion and defence of their rights and that also wants to prioritize specific training in diversity in youth monitoring courses to achieve real inclusion. A country that is committed to building safe working environments, where no LGBTI person is harassed or discriminated against, and especially where the unorthodox unemployment rates suffered by trans people are finally ended. A country that clearly says that people living in rural environments have the right to the same services and care as people living in large cities. [[Applauds]] And yes, Spain is also a country that cares about the sexile, although part of this House is dedicated to ridicule the term, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a term, but a real problem that affects many people who suffer from severe psychological problems by the LGTB-phobia they suffer, people who do not find shelter in their places of residence, people who suffer harassment, insults, contempt, who feel alone and helpless and who therefore have to leave their towns and cities. [[Applauds]] For the first time in history this country will worry about all of them and all of them and will seek a real solution to exile. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, all this I have mentioned is thanks to the work of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and thanks to the Socialist Party, because once again the Socialist Party has taken all these demands from civil society and has made them laws with the aim of building a better, fairer and more egalitarian country. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party is the party of social rights, the party of diversity and equality, the party of great social progress. [[Applauds]] It is a party with 143 years of history; 143 years defending all the realities of this country; 143 years fighting for the real equality of all citizens. We are the heirs and heirs of Pedro Zerolo, Fran Pérez, Carme Chacón, Carmen Alborch, Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, Bibiana Aido, Leire Pajín, Carmen Montón. [[applause]] And yes, also from Puri Causapié. [[Applauds]] Of so many compañeras and so many compañeras who, from the smallest municipality to the largest city, have struggled to build a better society. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the party of equal marriage, of Law 3/2007, of the law on sexual and reproductive health, of the law that penalizes harassment of women who go to clinics to voluntarily interrupt their pregnancy, of the law that improves the protection of orphans, victims of gender-based violence, of the Zero Law. And yes, also of the law LGTBI and trans. We are the party that has moved Spain forward. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question is: And where has the People's Party been, which is so noisy now? The People's Party has always been installed in the no. Every time this country struggled for social advancement, they dedicated themselves to putting stones on the road, in every vote and in every appeal they made to the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you are the party of the no. The no to progress in women's rights, the no to progress in the rights of LGBT people, the no to everything that means improving the lives of women workers. [[Applauds]] Yes, they never lack a yes when it comes to improving the privilege of the privileged, of those who already have a lot; the right, then, does not put resources or have negative votes. And what's much worse, they're the party that has the shame of telling the rest of us that we have to thank their leaders that they don't touch a coma of laws like that of egalitarian marriage. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I do not agree that you do not want this country to move forward socially, but I am glad that thanks to the laws of the Socialist Party, and in this case of the coalition government, you can live happily, you can live in a fairer country and you can marry whomever you want, you can have children with whomever you want and you can love whomever you want. [[Applauds]] I wish one day you would give that positive vote to these laws to build a better country and, above all, I hope one day you would give that positive vote to these laws that make thousands of people in this country happy. In the meantime, I can assure you that the Socialist Party - the feminist and LGBTI rights party - will continue to work to defend the most vulnerable, the least fortunate and the most needy. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u111	On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Equality has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u112	Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. We have already discussed the abortion law. This is the second feminist law that we finally passed today and I want to start by thanking all the LGBTI and trans activists who are in the gallery: Mar, Uge, Carla. How about Carla? I see here Darko too, Jesus. Thank you. [[Applauds]] We have been told so many times that this law would not be law and you have endured and put up with the guy so many times that I can only say thank you. Thank you for those who are not - SoniaRescalvo, la Veneno, Pedro Zerolo -, for which you are and for which you have fought and conquered these rights that we are going to vote here today and that today, finally and deservedly, will be law. [[Applauds]] Thanking the LGTBI and trans collectives is not only a good way to start an intervention, but an honest thank you from the Government of Spain, from your country, for all the work you have done not only to bring this law forward, but because you have been - unfortunately, because that means that the State has so far not fulfilled its obligations, and fortunately, because you have saved many lives - the only hand stretched out that has had many people LGTBI and many trans people who saw no way out, who were injured, who felt that they could not go forward and that, in the face of mockery, in the face of misunderstanding, in the face of discrimination, in the face of violence, in the face of beatings, they have found in you a door, a window, a light, happiness, the possibility of going forward and, above all, of being those who are without having to ask forgiveness or permission from anyone. I also want to thank Boti García, Jesús Generelo and the entire team of the Ministry of Equality, because the processing of this law has been a teamwork, and I can only say thank you. [[Applauds]] This is a law that recognizes the right to self-determination of the gender identity of trans people, which depatologize trans realities. Trans people are not sick people, they are people. Point. They're who they are. Point. Trans women are women. Point. And the state recognizes you from today. Point. It is also a law that recognizes rights for trans children, rights that have been at risk in the processing of this law, rights that could further advance, I am aware of that. Today we take a giant step so that there are many trans children and 'girls' who feel more understood and understood in their schools and by their families and that these families have more support; that they can play the sports they want in their neighborhoods, in their schools, and that they find understanding where they previously found misunderstanding and mockery. And it's a law that recognizes something so simple, but it's not yet done in our country, like you can't not rent a flat because you're a trans person or LGTBI, you have the right to be in the bar you want and you can't discriminate in your leisure moments because you're a LGTB person or because you're a trans person, you can't discriminate at work either and that the loneliness of the coffee machine - as Boti says - has ended, where there have to be people who can't count on who they slept with the night before or who they spent the weekend with. That everyone can feel very proud - I see Eugeni also out there, thank you for being here - of being who they are and not afraid to say who they are, who they live with, who they love, who they have sex with and how happy they are in their life. That is why this is a law - in my opinion - of the most important of the legislature. As President Zapatero said from this rostrum, a law to expand the happiness opportunities of so many people. And I want you to know that there are many people we know that today we are also more free and we are happier knowing that you, you and 'you' are more free and happy. [[Applauds]] I'm also aware of two things. The first, the road doesn't end here. We have failed to incorporate non-binary realities into this law, rights for trans-migrants are lacking, and we can advance the rights of trans-migrant children. Surely, when this law goes on, we discover many other things in which we can move forward, so we know that the road does not end here. We've taken a giant step as big as we could. I wish I could have been even bigger, but that doesn't take away a single apex of value from everything we've achieved, among other things because very few people trusted that this was possible. In this sense, I want to make a special mention of a companion who is not here today, Ana Valenzuela - she is not here because she cannot be here - who has fought just like all of you and who deserves recognition from this House. Her and her family. [[Applauds]] He said I'm aware of two things. One, which still remains for us to go through, and the other, which you have faced - we have faced together - a social debate which should not have been so and which has been loaded with bubbles, transphobia and LGBTphobia. It is also important to apologize from this House because we have not been able to prevent those hate speech, treacherous speech, phobic LGTB speech from opening up. Of course you can disagree with a law. Someone can say: Hey, I think trans people are sick people and I want you to be asked for a medical report to prove your illness. That could have been part of the political debate, but to say, as has been said today from this rostrum, that there is an alarming increase in homosexuality... What is the normal percentage of homosexuals in a society, ladies and gentlemen of the right and the extreme right? Is the normal thing different from being gay? [[Applauds]] That's called LGTBphobia. To say that we are going to force boys and girls to get hormonal is a lie and also encourages hate speech. Precisely, what this law does is to untying the recognition of the identity of trans people and of trans children and 'children' from the obligation to get hormone, which is what we now demand of adult people after: two years of hormoneization and a medical report that believes they are sick when they are not sick people and when there are many trans people who freely decide not to get hormone. I therefore ask you to stop spreading bubbles, transphobia and LGTBphobia because you can give this debate without bubbles, without transphobia and without LGTBphobia. Do you know what the problem is? That if this debate takes place without your bubbles, without your transphobia and without your LGTB, it is only the nakedness that you are always against human rights, against LGBT rights, against the rights that make our society a better society. Mrs. Ayuso said this week that thanks to the trans law, suicides and depressions were increasing. [[Protests]] No, ladies and gentlemen, this law, precisely, does what it does is to allow everyone to be who he is without fear, without guilt and without discrimination. What makes depressions worse is to mistreat public health, as you do when you rule, and not to protect mental health and the health personnel who care for our mental health. [[Protests.-Applause.]] This law allows everyone to be who he is without guilt, without fear, without discrimination. I finish by thanking all the LGTBI collectives, trans, all the compañeras that you are here. [[A Member of Parliament: Yes!-A Member of the European Parliament: It is time!-A Member of the European Parliament: What a barbarity! What a shame! What a lack of education!]] They told us it was impossible. Today is law, so please, with all the pride and with all the happiness I will celebrate, full of pride the streets of our country. Never again a country without trans people, never again a country without you, without you and without 'you'. Know that this hand that we have taken and that has made possible that, against all odds, the law trans and LGTB is law will continue to be a hand stretched out, a body to body, back with back to continue to conquer rights and make effective the happiness of all people LGTBI and trans in all corners of this country. Trans law is law. [[Applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats)]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u113	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u114	We move on to the next point. Amendments adopted by the Senate to the draft law regulating the protection of persons reporting on normative and anti-corruption violations. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor in position-setting by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u115	Thank you very much, President. I speak simply to manifest... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u116	One moment, Your Honor, one second. I pray that whoever wants to leave the Chamber will do so in silence and quickly. Please, ladies and gentlemen. Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u117	Thank you very much, President. I am simply speaking to express our support for the amendments from the Senate, which, in our view, improve the draft law on the protection of whistleblowers from normative violations and the fight against corruption; some technical amendments, others to improve the internal consistency of the draft, also to improve the protection of whistleblowers and, finally, to achieve greater effectiveness and efficiency in parliamentary control of the activities of the Independent Protection Authority. [[The lady]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we are confident that, despite the delay of a little more than a year in the transposition of Directive 2019/1937, the completion of the processing of the draft law and its publication in the OJE implies the withdrawal by the Commission of the complaint before the Court of Justice of the Union for this delay and that it does not end in a fine. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u119	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We are faced with amendments from the Senate, a subject far less interesting than those we have been seeing all morning - that is why your ladies and gentlemen are standing up and leaving the Chamber - to protect whistleblowers who make complaints against corruption. Of course, that here, in this House, some people are a little short of it, because there have been many cases of corruption of the political parties that are present in the House. I am drawn to one thing from these amendments which come from the Senate - Mr Legarda has also said very correctly - and which do not bring anything at all. In other words, they are simply flaws that had been observed in the very wording that had emerged from the Congress of Deputies, in the legislative capacity of the Government of this country, that the truth is that this week does not seem to be very diligent in what is the exercise of that legislative capacity that should put in the development, in the conduct, in the impulse of the draft laws of the Government. Of course, they turn us out of the Senate simply with the change of a palabrier and the change of another palabrier. Of course, we will vote yes, but it comes back to us with regard to a rule on which, as the PNV representative has also said, we are late in transposing the European directive on the protection of whistleblowers or whistleblowers, with a sanctioning procedure opened by the European Commission against Spain, and all - let us say - the consolation that the Government expresses to us in relation to this issue is that other countries are also missing, which other countries have also failed to comply with their obligation to transpose. What a comfort! We're just as bad as the meanest by transposing. I - as I said in my first speech here, in the Congress of Deputies - would indeed call attention to the Ministry of Justice so that we would not again incur these kinds of defects, of non-compliance with the deadlines for transposition of directives, where Spain, of course, is at the top of the record in non-compliance with this transposition, when we, Citizens, presented the transposition two years ago and all of you voted against the consideration. Now they bring her out of time and we process her fast and running. The truth, as I said before, is that neglect in the development of the legislative process of the Ministry of Justice and the Government draws attention. I've said it many times in this rostrum. We have legislative proposals from the parliamentary groups that exclude prior consultation with the consultative bodies of the Government. We are faced with urgent procedures when it is in the interest of the Government. Not in the law. When you want the Basque quota for the urgent procedure, in one reading and that passes quickly unnoticed by the Congress of Deputies, yes. All very fast, no visitors, no studies. When it comes to ELA law, in the drawer. When it comes to the law on health security, after this country has gone through a terrible pandemic, a law that seeks to promote, ensure the work of nurses and health care workers, eighty extensions of the deadline for amendments. Quick, no-show when you're interested, urgent action. When it comes to other laws that the government cares less about, such as protecting ALS patients, such as protecting cancer patients, such as protecting national public health, no, that's why we extend the deadline for amendments. The constant abuse of the royal decrees laws and the earrings carried by this Government by the Constitutional Court, the inclusion of legal reforms through partial amendments that curtail the rights of the opposition and this week we are absolutely crazy about the issue of statute of limitations for the start of the crimes that were included in the Children's Act, with two deadlines that are absolutely incompatible and that the Government now intends to rectify in other rules. I believe that this week's star is, of course, that earshake that the Supreme Court, in its Second Chamber, in the review of Oriol Junqueras' sentences, gives to the Government With regard to the reform of the crimes of sedition, of embezzlement, saying that it is a type that is fixed on another type that was a Francoist type and that protects more the civil servant than the embezzlement of the private person who misappropriates funds of a private nature. Of course, you are a glory in the area of regulation, in the area of legislation. I can't believe so much negligence in the proceedings if it wasn't because I end up thinking that you're making a bet, that you're doing it intentionally. On the treatment of this law, it is nothing less than the protection of whistleblowers for corruption, nothing less than matters such as Gürtel, such as the ERE, nothing less than people like José Luis Peñas, through which we were able to pursue the genetic corruption of the People's Party in relation to different situations of corruption and illegal party financing. Yes, indeed, it is a question of the security forces and bodies protecting them, of having the guarantee of compensation, of having the confidentiality of the complainant, of having financial support and psychological support. They are ultimately entitled to a resolution by the agencies. And again I say - specifically to Mrs Tizón of the Socialist Party, who was the protagonist of this process - that I hope that all the committees will hear the opposition's proposals as has been done with this law. There have been many proposals from my parliamentary group and other parliamentary groups that have enriched, which have improved the text of the law that is going to go to the State Official Gazette. The courteous thing does not take away the courage and, no matter how much I meddle with the legislative negligence of this government, Mrs Tizón and Mr Aranda, of course, thank you. Things like protection have been incorporated when the risk exists, when it simply exists, not necessarily when it is high. We have been admitted to the development of a national anti-corruption strategy. We have been admitted to the necessary coordination that must exist on the part of the State of the autonomous anti-corruption agencies. We have been admitted that there is also a member of the Court of Auditors in the advisory committee. Other things have not come forward. We are therefore satisfied with our contributions and, of course, we will monitor the implementation and enforcement of this very important law for Spain. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u121	Thank you very much, President. I will make a very brief statement just to express our support for the amendments that come from the Senate. At this end of the legislative process of this law to protect whistleblowers from corruption, some of the amendments are of a technical nature, others to better coordinate the interrelationship between the articles. In short, we want to add to the need for such a law, which involves the adaptation of the European directive of the utmost importance, to be incorporated into the legal system and to do so as soon as possible, since it is the duty of the Spanish State to incorporate into national law all those directives which have a deadline. I therefore only have to vote in favour of the amendments and the bill as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u122	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u123	Thank you, President. We began our speech by thanking Senator Laura Castel and Senator Pau Furriol, also legal advisor Ana Llorens, for the work they have done since the Senate trying to improve this law. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] We also thank the work and dialogue of the parliamentary rapporteurs of this law, as well as the parliamentary groups for the dialogue. Persons reporting corruption need comprehensive protection against reprisals and to ensure their anonymity. A huge, huge opportunity has been missed to make a bolder law that truly protects 100 per cent of people reporting cases of corruption. Since the Republican Parliamentary Group we have amended the law to improve, we have been accepted amendments in their terms, we have also been accepted compromises. However, many absolutely necessary amendments have not been accepted to - I say again - the real and effective protection of persons reporting corruption throughout their parliamentary process, not only in Congress but also in the Senate, amendments that came from entities and agencies. And this, I hope not - in fact, it was mentioned earlier to the rapporteur of the Socialist Party - has an impact on people's lives, because we think that it has not been possible to live up to the standards laid down in the European directive. In Spain, people reporting corruption are currently in a situation of absolute helplessness - this has been said here many times - being forced to become involuntary heroes, because of the extraordinary personal, and also professional, cost of their civic denunciation action. The contributions from our parliamentary group have been in line to contribute to the good governance of public and private institutions - as the Government of Catalonia defends, with its commitment to democratic transformation - and, at the same time, to preserve and enhance our self-government. For example, the amendment we voted on today, 154 in relation to the fifth additional provision, introduces a modification for the Government to adopt the anti-corruption strategy in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities. The Government of the Generalitat is determined - certainly Xabi, many thanks for your help - to equip us with our own law of alerters. Therefore, it could also be announced here, from this rostrum, that we are already studying the text of this law to begin shortly the processing in the Parliament of Catalonia. We hope, when there is an exchange of information and also of collaboration, that it will be loyal between control bodies at both levels. Finally, I say again that we are concerned about a law that should also be the law of corruption whistleblowers. Some collectives or people - we believe - have stayed out, probably out of political irresponsibility. Here's the thing. But don't worry because we will continue to fight from our parliamentary group. Thank you very much, thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs. Carvalho. Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u125	Dear President, dear colleagues, there are no full democracies. All human constructions are limited and contingent. Britain lacks a written guaranteed Constitution. The Constitution of Canada was granted by the Queen of a foreign country. The Constitution of Germany was created in a territory occupied by foreign forces. There are no full democracies. Democracy is a very weak flower that needs to be taken care of, that needs to be watered, that needs to be paid daily. The opposite happens with corruption. Corruption and abuse are those weeds that grow everywhere without being cared for. That is why, in order to preserve democracy, so that democracy does not disappear, the struggle of people who face corruption every day, putting their bodies ahead and fighting against the consequences and reprisals that result from fighting corruption. Corruption is that weed that grows especially where there are power relationships, where there are authority relationships, where there are unequal relationships, and it grows fundamentally in labor relationships. That is why we need and need this law, so that in the jobs, in the businesses, in the administrations it gives the power of protection to the people who fight, who denounce daily putting their bodies and suffering reprisals, who defend democracy in their jobs and on the street. That is why this law is fundamental. It is a basic law, as one of those who have spoken before me has rightly said, namely Mr Bal. This law is very important. However, it is a law that most citizens are probably not going to know, because the media are not going to report it. They are not going to report a law that empowers citizens to denounce abuses, to fight corruption and defend democracy. The media are much more interested today in noise than in nuts, and this law brings nuts, brings instruments to protect citizens, so that citizens fight and claim their rights, fight and claim democracy, and pursue and defeat corruption and abuse, which are those weeds that grow spontaneously. It's a necessary law. We do not agree with everything contained in this law. We wanted to have a much bolder law, but we have achieved quite a lot and we thank the Socialist Group's colleagues, Mrs Tizon and the Ministry of Justice, because they have accepted many of our amendments, because they have allowed us to ensure that the state security forces and bodies are not excluded from the protection of this law, because they have allowed us to have free legal aid for those who are going to report corruption, because they have allowed us to have retroactive effects at the time of the adoption of the Community directive; a whole series of fundamental advances. Today is the day to claim a good law, a law that protects democracy, a necessary law. Forty-four years we have been waiting for people who fight and denounce corruption, for journalists who investigate corruption to have legal protection with a specific law. This is something we have to claim, because the Constitution recognizes the right of journalists investigating corruption to protect their professional secrecy. This law, in addition to protecting whistleblowers from corruption, is accompanied by another law that protects the professional secrecy of journalists, forty-four years after the adoption of the Constitution, without their rights being protected. That is why this law is fundamental, because it protects those who put their bodies to fight corruption. That is why today is the day of our appreciation and gratitude. Finally, the 14th Legislature will fill a gap that existed during the 13 previous Legislatures. We must thank and congratulate the coalition Government for this achievement. [[Applauds]] But not only is it time to congratulate the coalition government, it is also time to ask for forgiveness, in the name of democracy that has for decades forgotten the people who have put their bodies ahead to fight corruption and abuse. This is the moment when we have to try to settle the outstanding debt. It is the time when, even if the media ignore this law and the struggle for democracy and prefer to be in other things, we have to do democratic pedagogy and tell people who denounce cases of corruption in their jobs, in their administrations, to continue to fight, that democracy drowns if it is abandoned, that what grows is the weed of corruption, that corruption and abuse need our struggle and our effort day-to-day, and that starting from today, and with this Government, they will have recognition and support in this law. But it is not enough with a law, there is a need for democratic pedagogy, there is a need for support from this House, from the institutions to all those who are fighting for the advancement of democracy and for the limitation of corruption and abuse. Thank you very much to all the comrades, not only of the groups that support this coalition government, but also of those opposition groups that have decided to support this law. It is a necessary law for this country. We will leave our descendants a better country, a better democracy if we protect people who fight and denounce corruption and abuse. It's imperative. Let's do pedagogy. Let's not just look at the noise and the dissent. Let us look at consensus, let us look more at nuts than at noise, and let us continue to expand democracy. Let us continue with this law which, although it is only a small granite of sand, helps to open the great Alamedas. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Uriarte. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ruiz Navarro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u127	With the venom. Ladies and gentlemen, Directive 2019/1937, which appears to be the cause of this draft law, contains in its Article 2 a specific list of infringements of Community law in respect of which a system of protection may be extended to informants. It is true that States are allowed to extend to informants of other violations of domestic law, but of course neither this is binding nor enables them to open specific cases in order to suppress any violations of domestic law. On 22 December, I had the opportunity to speak in this rostrum to explain why my parliamentary group rejects this bill. He has now returned from the Senate with some aesthetic touches, which, of course, do not correct the main defect of this rule: its perverse purpose. And I have already warned, both in the Committee on Justice and in plenary, that the announced protection of whistleblowers or whistleblowers of corruption is nothing more than a decoy, an excuse for not seeing what is actually implemented with this rule: an institutional and widespread system of delinquency of lawbreakers. The title of the bill itself makes it very clear. From now on, any citizen, company, political party or foundation linked to it that does not bend its head before the official sectarian legislation may be denounced and the complainant shall enjoy the protection of the State. And what can be the consequence for the defendant? For, of course, the application of the severe sanctioning regimes that provide for them, among them, the newly adopted ideological laws and those that you are going to pass today. With this you close the circle. Ideological sectarian laws, intimidating sanctions for those who dare to disagree and, finally, now the police of thought dressed as plainclothes within each company, each party, each foundation or each administration ; police of thought, called in this draft law 'informant of normative violations', which can even act hidden after anonymity. [[applause]] So we can already say goodbye to political pluralism and hello to the only official thought, goodbye to freedom of expression and hello to the culture of cancellation, goodbye to living without fear and hello to living with fear, goodbye to real democracy and hello to the mere appearance of democracy. This is what always happens under socialist and communist regimes, and it is called totalitarianism, although in Spain for the moment, for the moment, it adopts the form of soft totalitarianism, in the words of my colleague Francisco José Contreras. [[applause]] The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that you are not at all concerned with protecting whistleblowers from corruption, nor are you at all concerned with putting corruption on the line, because you live in it at all levels, even in the European Parliament; if you were resigned two days ago by a canarian socialist deputy for a corruption plot in the Canary Islands! [[applause]] And you don't say anything about this. But you don't really care at all about women, transsexuals, homosexuals or even animals, and we already see it in the consequences of the laws they pass. The only thing that makes you sick is to restrict the rights and freedoms of the Spaniards, to bring about social conflicts and to try to get rid of them. [[Applauds]] Please note, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, how little they care about the fight against corruption that they have not yet answered the questions I asked you here from this rostrum on 22 December. So I'm gonna try my luck again, see what happens. Let's see, isn't there really any brave in those ranks who dares to become an informant of corruption by helping us, for example, to know the real scope of the 'Morocco Gate' plot among the socialist ranks? [[Applauds]] If I'm not lucky here, maybe you can try luck in this part. [[Notes the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] Someone, too, can tell us, can explain to us, why the popular Euro MPs ran out to not vote a resolution condemning Morocco. Maybe one of you can explain it to us too. [[Applauds]] You are pushing for a bill that seeks - they say - to protect the informants from reprisals, even if the revelation is made publicly or within a political party, such as that of the PSOE, right? It can't be that you're afraid, I say. Well, then, I'll insist. Is no one encouraged to report the Ximo Puig gate, that plot of corruption and nepotism? Nor the Azud case of Aquamed? None? The partners, too? Those who support you here or in the Valencian Parliament also have nothing to say, Mr Baldoví? Nothing to say about this? [[Applauds]] I do not ask you very much, just to set an example using the mechanisms of the bill that you are going to pass as proof that you believe in it. Obviously, as we do not believe, with these limbs, which are rather chains, we will not support this fraudulent transposition of a European directive that tramples on our freedoms and deprives us of fundamental rights. Only with VOX will there be hope to rebuild everything you are destroying. Of course, they do not count on our support for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Ruiz. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Postigo Quintana has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u129	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We in the People's Group believe that the fight against corruption must be essential for the maintenance of democratic institutions and against those who use their office for their own or third-party benefit, damaging and undermining our democracy and the good work done by the vast majority of politicians on a daily basis. That is what we understand and that is what we understand during President Rajoy's government, when the largest number of legislative reforms were carried out to combat corruption. But this bill does not meet the expectations that this scourge demands, nor does it meet those of the European Union and its directive. The first thing we have to regret is that there are more than enough reasons to say that this is the least transparent and opaque legislature in the history of democracy. It is not acceptable that a law which is presumed to be important, first, should be late and, secondly, that it should be done urgently because of its negligence, leading to four years of delay and thus being denounced by the European Union before the Court of Justice of the Union itself. The House is not respected and the reflections that we or the rest of the collectives can bring are not valued. They are giving reason to those who denounce that they are only trying to get out of trouble with the European Union. But it is even worse, because with this transposition bill the Government has complicated it and made everything worse. The directive only concerns the reporting of criminal offences, leaving Member States the decision to extend the application of national provisions to other areas. As was to be expected, the Government extends it to its fullest extent, but generating great confusion, when it does not interfere with the functions already performed by the inspection services of the Administration. From the reports of the consultative bodies to this law the Government has hardly paid attention, and the best proof of this is that 80% of the amendments of our group contained in their literality recommendations from the Council of State that have not been reflected by the Government; in other cases, they were an exact translation of the directive itself, in view of the confusing wording that came to us from the Government. And what about his lack of legal technique. There is no clarity in the conduct under investigation and no definition of the facts likely to be reported, which is a real problem, as in law indefinite leads to legal uncertainty which endangers the very actions of the investigation. The purpose of this directive is to facilitate the action of justice and not to create parallel justice, which is not the case with this law. It should therefore have been clarified what, who, how and where. Have no doubt: this law will create a difficult legal limbo. On the other hand, the European directive does not say that a new body should be set up or what authorities are competent to reduce information on infringements, but the Government has chosen to set up a new administrative body to be set up and that it will be delayed in its operation. Or are they going to further delay the complainant's protection? One might have chosen to use the figure of the Court of Auditors, which already has the organization and experience to manage such complaints immediately, or simply a conflict-like office, composed of officials, with greater parliamentary control and ensuring absolute impartiality and neutrality in the handling of complaints. But, of course, we've been rejected. Why? It's very simple, I'll explain it to you. Because it's another opportunity for the sanchismo placement agency, with twenty-eight people on hand. You'll tell me if it's not a new chiringuito... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please. Mr. Postigo, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u131	... in which to accommodate friends, favors and friends to do politics. And what about the protection of the informant. A message of zero tolerance in the fight against corruption should have been launched. But no, look where the amendments made by this Government to the Criminal Code lead to the opposite. How are you going to present this law as a fight against corruption when a few weeks ago the socialist majority and all its partners approved the reduction of penalties for the crime of embezzlement of public money, that is, political corruption? [[Applauds]] I ask all of you on the left side, how are you going to ask the citizens to become informants of corruption, when you have reduced the penalties to the corrupt, even allowing the release of criminals who embezzle public money? The European Commissioner for Justice has said that the new figure of embezzlement in Spain violates the anti-fraud rules of the European Union. This is very worrying news. Does the Government have nothing to say about this? And, of course, the modification of the embezzlement and the assertion of the European Commissioner do not encourage those citizens who are aware of criminal behaviour and who want to denounce it. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, the aim of the directive is to combat corruption and to speed it up, not to bureaucratise it. But it is seen that for you the aim is to create chiringuitos and delay it, and the truth is that I am not surprised at anything in view of the times that await you, with the investigations opened for alleged corruption that point to several of your party colleagues, both in the Valencian Community and in your parliamentary group. No, there is no right for a bad - very bad, terrible - modification of the misappropriation carried out by the Government of Sánchez to result in the order of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court before yesterday coming to tell society that, with the modification of the misappropriation, it is allowed to give privileged treatment to public offices - that is to say, politicians - vis-à-vis the rest of the individuals. This is not a fight against corruption, socialists, this is a real shame. [[Applauds]] I'm done. No one believes that you intend to fight corruption, especially with your reduction from the crime of embezzlement, which will soon set in motion the accountant of corrupts who will see their sentences reduced or who will be released and who will give us a new daily assault along with that of the sexual aggressors who benefit by the work and grace of their foolish and harmful laws. It is a good thing that, along with those infamous accountants, the countdown will start so that the Spaniards in the ballot box will tell you loud and clear and forcefully that you are the worst government of democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Postigo. For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Postigo, from personal appreciation, what a piece of paper you have touched! But don't hang up, don't hang up. [[Protests]] The commitment of this Government and the majority of this House to the fight against corruption is firm and stable. We are again discussing the draft law on the protection of persons reporting on normative violations and on the fight against corruption. We are doing so by introducing amendments in the Senate and we could practically base the arguments that were made just two months ago. It could even be a good time to claim the exercise of good politics, as my colleague Uxía Tizón also did, because one, in his innocence, might think that a law that carries in its title 'protection of persons reporting on infringements and combating corruption' could be an ideal law to invoke the unanimous agreement of this House. But, unfortunately, this was not so in December, it was not so in the Senate, nor will it be so today by decision of the right-wing parties. There is an objective fact that they can neither argue nor refute: the PP, which always comes out in the spotlight in the photo of corruption, does not want to come out in the photo against corruption. [[Applauds]] You hide and, when you have to give so many excuses and so many turns to justify an incomprehensible decision, is that something you do wrong or have bad conscience. [[Rumors]] The question that arises is twofold. First, who can be against a law on the protection of whistleblowers and the fight against corruption? Who can be bothered by these two statements? And, second - and almost more importantly - why are there parties in this House that are against those which almost twenty political parties vote in favour? Why? Why do they not join the struggle of the government and the parties against corruption? It is legitimate to ask whether this is also one of those laws that are in your black notebook of laws that you want to repeal if you come to the PP and VOX government. Is this one of those laws? In fact, ladies and gentlemen, when you see who sits on the no, the right and the Spanish national far right, many things begin to square, the pieces fit. He voted against and voted against VOX, that party that served us in this exercise, in that historic session of parliamentarianism last Tuesday, two laws will boomerán: fugitives against fugitives and legal referendum yes but no. That party to which I recognize its coherence, because, of course, its concept of democratic quality was anchored in the 1940s. That's VOX, which at that end is VOX. In the other we are all those who use this House to dignify parliamentary work, who work to maintain respect and decorum in this seat, who drive progress and legislation to transform our country and adapt it to European standards and our neighbouring countries. And in nobody's land is the PP, a game that has had to change horses in the middle of the race. By the way, these days - I don't know if next week - an ephemeride is being fulfilled: a year ago Mr.Married had to leave the PP's leadership involuntarily. Mr Casado would be a good beneficiary of this law, because, since it is a law that wants to protect people who denounce corruption, obviously Mr Casado would be a good beneficiary of this law. Now it is understood why you do not want to vote in favour of this law. [[Applauds]] In addition, the PP is a party that in terms of legislation it does what it does is to protect itself, you legislate to protect yourself. That's why, on your own account, you've been blocking the reform of the Council for four years, it's not going to be... Because, ladies and gentlemen, with your vote against this bill, you sit in the past, vote for the past and turn your back on the future. You are no longer in the past, but in your past. And, ladies and gentlemen, to your regret, Spain looks to the future. We have a party in the past with an outmoded leader in front of a government that legislates for the future. [[Rumors]] I say this to you from the heart, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, it is a shame that you do not know the opportunity to side with those who want a better mechanism for the protection of anti-corruption whistleblowers. I ask, are you afraid? He said: they are afraid. It is also a pity that they do not see the historic opportunity to support not this law anymore, but so many other laws that have been passed in this House and that have had their vote against. To its regret, Spain of the future has the name of an increase of the minimum wage to 1080 euros, of an increase of 8.5% pensions, of stable and quality employment, of 20.5 million employees, of support to the productive fabric, of economic growth and of closing of the gender gap, for example. Meanwhile, Spain of the past, the one that wants to bring us the PP from the hand of VOX, is Spain that does not fight against corruption, as we see in this law, is Spain that backs in rights, Spain that backs in equality, Spain that resorted to a right like abortion to the Constitutional Court. [[Rumors]] That Spain is the one that they want to bring us, their Spain. And it's just that you, ladies and gentlemen, like Spain because you were very comfortable in the past, and you come back, you're wrong, with the canteen. When you talk about Catalonia, when you talk about rights, when you talk about economics, you always go back to the past. Ladies and gentlemen, when you speak your voice sounds like that, your voice sounds like the past, with which you remain anchored in the past that we will be the voice of Spain looking to the future. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Aranda. We'll vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. First of all, non-law propositions. No legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group concerning the referendum as an instrument of political participation and the criminalization of the illegal referendum for the defence of the unity of Spain. Voting by points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 54 against, 288.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u136	It's rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 151 against, 189 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u137	It's rejected. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) together with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for Europe (Christian Democrats) on the one hand, on the other hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other. [[File number 162/000774]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u138	No law proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal regarding the promotion of bone marrow donation. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 289 against, 1 abstention, 52.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u139	The non-legislative proposal was approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u140	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for an urgent debate by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos, on the Government's criteria for intensive and extensive livestock farming and, in particular, the problem of the elimination of purines. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 167 abstentions, 175.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u141	The motion was approved. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, to address the shortcomings in the service provided to citizens by the administration of social security. [[File number 173/000192]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u142	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to address the shortcomings in the service provided to citizens by the Social Security Administration. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 154 against, 169 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u143	The motion is rejected. - the VOX Parliamentary Group, on policies to be imposed by the Government to ensure that all Spaniards can access water in equal conditions throughout the national territory. [[File number 173/000193]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u144	Motion for an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the policies that the Government is going to push to ensure that all Spaniards have equal access to water throughout the national territory. Voting by points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 52 against, 290.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u145	It's rejected. Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 62 against, 189 abstentions, 90.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u146	It's rejected. Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 143 against, 197 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u147	It's rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u148	Senate amendments. Overall vote on the Organic Bill amending Organic Law 2/2010 of 3 March 2010 on sexual and reproductive health and the voluntary termination of pregnancy as being of the same organic nature. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 185 against, 154 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u149	The text was adopted as it stood. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u150	Employment Bill. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendments to articles 30 and 38. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 341 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u151	They're approved. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 289 abstentions, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u152	The amendments were adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u153	Draft law on the real and effective equality of trans persons and on the guarantee of the rights of LGBT persons. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendment to the 16th final provision, paragraph 8. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 128 against, 108 abstentions, 105.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u154	The amendment was adopted. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 191 against, 60 abstentions, 91.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u155	The amendments were adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u156	Draft law regulating the protection of persons reporting on normative and anti-corruption offences. Separate vote on the amendments. Amendments to Articles 8(6) and 36(3). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 250 against, 91 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u157	The amendments were adopted. Amendment to Article 13(4). The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 197 against, 92 abstentions, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u158	The amendment was adopted. Amendment to the third additional provision. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 287 abstentions, 55.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u159	The amendment was adopted. The rest of the amendments. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 196 against, 144 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-16-CD230216.u160	They're approved. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, for having a very good afternoon. The meeting rose. It was one and fifty-five minutes in the afternoon.
