ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Please take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u2	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, you preside over a government that approves a law to protect women, supposedly, but there are already 415 sex offenders who have seen their sentences reduced and 40 who have been released from prison because of you, and what remains. You preside over a government that orders trains that cannot fit through the tunnels, with almost two years of guilty concealment, and we will see what this joke costs us all. You preside over a government that charges thousands of autonomous 220 euros more by mistake. You preside over a government that is a snitch, a snitch. This looks like science fiction, but it's real. And here no one resigns. Mr. Sánchez, are you the president responsible for the actions of your government? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, it is my custom to face up and assume the responsibilities of my Government's actions when we are right and when we are wrong. [[laughs]] It is true that when inflation was 2 points above Germany the guilt, according to you, was of Mr Sánchez, and today, which is 3 points below Germany, it seems that the merit is of the Holy Spirit. But, indeed, I am responsible for the actions of the government. I am responsible for having deployed the largest social shield in the pandemic to help those self-employed, whom you say we are not protecting, small and medium-sized enterprises and also workers. [[applause]] I am responsible, ladies and gentlemen, for a feminist government. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u6	I am responsible for a feminist government that defends the rights and freedoms of women against you and the attacks of the far right. I am responsible for a government that has deployed €45 billion in social policies to address the effects of the Putin war in Ukraine. I am responsible, Your Honor, of course, for exporting solutions, such as the Iberian solution, which has allowed us here in Spain to save €4.5 billion to taxpayers in the face of rising prices. I am also responsible, Your Honor, for having dignified the working conditions of workers, for having revalued pensions under the CPI and for having raised the minimum inter-professional wage, as the European Social Charter tells us. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, I face it today, and when there's a problem, I try to solve it. [[Rumors]] In that, I have nothing to do with you. You throw the stone and hide your hand, Your Honor. They're going to demonstrations with the far right and then they're not even able to face it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u7	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u8	Look, Mr. Sánchez, abandon triumphalism. Do you know that after the last rise of the rates the mortgages are going to cost an average of 250 euros a month again? Do you know that this week is rising the price of fuel again? Do you know that last month 70,000 jobs were destroyed and 670 self-employed people were laid off every day? Do you know that there are people who can't afford the shopping basket? As the Spaniards live worse and worse every day, and we follow the line of recovery in Europe, their government breaks down. He gave the law of only yes to Podemos, knowing perfectly what its effects would be. Mrs. Calvo confessed last week. In fact, you've defended her with cloak and sword. Uniquely and exclusively, and through the surveys, she has given an instruction to the Minister of Justice to attack Minister Montero. But you are the most responsible, just like the Minister of Justice. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] But it's just that it's still not rectified. And you know why? Because your priority is not to protect women, your priority is to protect yourself to remain in power. You presume to preside over the most feminist government in the history of democracy. False. You preside over the most sectarian government in the history of democracy. Don't be short, apologize, rectify and be helped by the People's Party. [[Laughter]] It is his pride that prevents him from being a real feminist. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u9	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u10	Thank you, Madam President. When the People's Party calls itself something, it's to shake. You call yourselves the only constitutionalist party in the Spanish political system and have been in breach of the Constitution for five years. They now say that they are feminists, well, if they are feminists, they withdraw the constitutional recourse to the Law on Voluntary Termination of Pregnancy and break the agreements they have with the ultra-right in different governments. [[Applauds]] In any case, ladies, you throw the stone and hide your hand, hide your hand. Yesterday we learned, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Feijoo met with Mr Tamames, the VOX pre-applicant to the motion of censure. Ladies and gentlemen, what are you going to do? I think the least that an opposition leader should do, in this case, is to face... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. - OF THE DEVELOPED SANTIAGO ABASCAL CONDE, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WILL THE GOVERNMENT REVEAL HIS POLICIES IN MIGRORITY TO AVOID NEW ATTACKS LIKE ALGECIRAS? [[File number 180/001138]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u12	Question by Mr Santiago Abascal Conde, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u13	Good morning, Mr. Sanchez. Will your Government change its immigration policies to prevent further jihadist attacks, such as that of Algeciras, or will you continue to sponsor illegal immigration, denying the problems of coexistence, unprotecting police and civilian guards at our borders, unprotecting women, unprotecting our people in general and retaliation of public servants, such as Colonel Melilla, who only sought to defend the integrity of their guards, their legal security and defend our borders? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u14	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, my first words must be of remembrance to Diego Valencia and, indeed, his murder in Algeciras, and to the victims of this criminal act. Listen to these words, Mr.Abascal: 'We cannot lay fire to fire, we cannot fall into demagogies and we cannot identify terrorism with any religion or faith'. This I have not said, the Episcopal Conference has said. [[Rumors]] The Episcopal Conference has said so. It is true that you are opening the way to see if it hangs, and there are others who are encouraged to follow your speech of intolerance and xenophobia. And on this occasion, you were lucky, weren't you, Miss Gamarra? Finally, some cardan the wool and others take the fame. In any case, Mr. Abascal, I have to tell you not to be surprised, at least you go forward, you go face-to-face. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u17	It is true that you have recently surprised us with a pre-candidate to the motion of censure, which is a former communist. It is not surprising that a former member of the Communist Party is going to lead the motion of censure of a party that wants to illegalize that, the Communist Party. But, finally, this is Spanish politics today, thanks to the contribution of the far right. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u18	Mr. Abascal.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u19	As always, Mr Sánchez, you do not answer the questions and you go for the branches. You haven't answered us. You sponsor illegal immigration with a perverse system of effect called through social aid, government complicity with NGOs working with human trafficking, unprotected our borders, and expulsion orders that end up piled up thousands in a drawer. You provoke with your effect called a humanitarian drama in the Mediterranean and in the Strait, causing many people to die drowned, and bring problems of coexistence and security to our neighborhoods. The example of Algeciras is perfect to illustrate his policies: an individual who enters Spain illegally, who is not prevented from doing so, who radicalizes himself in jihadism and who has an unprocessed expulsion order, according to Morocco, who has taken the colors back from you. The data of the National Statistical Institute are indisputable. I do not know what you will say, but, in 2021, 491 people were convicted in Spain for sexual assaults, of which 46% were foreigners - of whom they are Spanish - of whom 52% were foreigners - and of whom they were convicted that same year for rape -46-. What is this lady's ministry for? What are your laws for? To put them on the street. You were responsible for protecting us from jihadist terrorism, and you have become guilty of unprotecting us. Today we know that a Spaniard, whom you mentioned, Diego Valencia, would still live quietly, and live in Algeciras, if you had fulfilled your obligation to expel the person who murdered him, and that is so. [[Applauds]] You were responsible for protecting women and have become responsible for unprotecting by bringing half of the sex offenders to Spain, not explaining them and then releasing themselves with unacceptable ideological laws. They were responsible for protecting us and have become the culprits. You're the culprits. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u20	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u21	Thank you, Madam President. You call us murderers, anyway, of all kinds... yes, you have done it again here, and you also said it in the motion of censure, in the first one you presented, Your Honor. [[Rumors]] In this motion of censure you're not a suspense master, nor Hitchcock, huh? Not even Hitchcock. You, Your Honor, in your first motion of censure, the one you presented, in the exhibit, accuse us of murderers as a result of the confinements that we were adopting to defend precisely lives. By the way, they also said that you would prefer a Francoist Government rather than this Government. Your Honor, what I want to tell you with this is that you should begin to reveal what you are going to do. Are you going to keep Mr. Tamames as a pre-candidate or a candidate for the motion of censure? Yes or no? [[Rumors]] Your Honor, Mr. Tamames...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u22	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u23	Would Mr. Tamames of 2023 be able to imprison Mr. Tamames of 1973, as Franco did with him? [[Applauds]] Because that's the point, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] We started tying up some ropes. You say that you prefer Franco's governments to a democratic government like this. You say you would also prefer to imprison those who Franco... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Rumors.-A honourable Member: He's dead.]] I'm asking you to be quiet, please. Mr. Echaniz, silence, please. [[Mr. Zaragoza Alonso: Why do you say he's dead? That's very serious.-Rumors]] Mr. Zaragoza silence, please. [[Rumors]] I ask you to remain silent. [[Rumors]] Mr. Hispan Churches of Ussel, silence, please. - OF THE DEVELOPED GABRIEL RUFIAN ROMERO, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WHAT TYPE OF POLITICAL MODEL DOES THE GOVERNMENT DEFEND? [[File number 180/001133]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u25	Question by Mr Gabriel Rufián Romero, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group. [[Pause]] Mr. Ruffian Romero, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. President. What kind of police model does your government stand for? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u27	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u28	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The police model defended by this Government is one that guarantees the safe exercise of our rights and freedoms, with State security forces and bodies trained and prepared to face the threats and challenges we face. So, what have we done? We have worked intensively in this House to reform the Citizens' Security Act of 2015, the colloquially called gag law. In that sense, in this first intervention, I would like to appreciate the work of the presentation, because it means that we can continue to move forward on the issues that are still pending. Things remain to be closed, your parliamentary group knows it well, but I would like to point out that, to this day, the paper has already corrected all those aspects that caused the majority rejection of the groups in this House and of the Spanish society as a whole, and that it was worth that qualification to be the law gag. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u29	Mr. Rufián.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u30	Thank you. Mr. President, I wasn't asking you what you answered, we'll talk about the law gag, because it has fabric too. I'm going to read you something: terrorism, kidnapping, trafficking, sale of explosives, sale of nuclear material, prostitution and drug trafficking Do you know what they are? These are the offences that justify police infiltration under section 282 bis of the Criminal Procedure Act. So the question, Mr President, is: which of these crimes were they pursuing when they leaked a national police force for three years into couples, in splais and in neighboring movements in Barcelona? Which ones? What crimes were they pursuing? I repeat, in couples, in esplais and in neighboring movements of Barcelona. What criminals did you investigate? I ask, above all, because none - none - of these spaces have been closed, none of the people who had been involved with that undercover national police force for three years have even been imprisoned. I am commenting, especially, because if there is no crime and if there is no criminal prosecuted or investigated, why have they rewarded this national police in an embassy with five complaints - I repeat, five complaints - for sexual abuse? [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Calm down. I'd be ashamed to applaud, but they're VOX, so I totally get it. I ask you: where is your moral limit?, where is your ethical limit? Because this is no longer only a threat to political and ideological freedoms, but also, it seems, sexual. One piece of advice: if you continue like this, these who applaud, come. Second advice: the next time you want to infiltrate someone in a criminal organization, I give you ideas: Popular Party, Francisco Franco Foundation or Zarzuela. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u31	Mr. President of the Government. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u32	First of all, your question allows me to defend the good work and the good work of the state security forces and bodies in our country. Secondly, I would like to say to you, Your Honor, that last year you reproach the fact that Spain will fall in the index of democratic quality published annually by a prestigious international magazine, such as The Economist, it would be good that you also recognize that Spain has climbed positions during this year and that today it is described as a full democracy. And we're not even anymore because there's some other party that does what it does is block the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary. I will not go into this issue, Your Honor, but I do think it is important to pick up your question to say the following. We are committed to reforming the gag law; to eliminating, as we have already done from the point of view of the parliamentary agreement with other political formations, the most damaging aspects of the gag law. We will facilitate the processing, as we did with the proposed law of the Basque Nationalist Party, and we are already working, together with the rest of the groups, on more than fifty amendments. Of the fifty-four articles of the law we have made progress in more than forty; of the fifty-one amendments tabled by your group we have agreed twenty-one. Finally, our point, ladies and gentlemen, in this matter, which is so important, is that we cannot leave without a framework of adequate coverage for the National Police, the Civil Guard and the Mossos d'Esquadra, and that is why I am convinced that we will continue to dialogue in order to advance a rule, which I believe can balance the full and free exercise of rights and freedoms and the preservation of public order and the security of citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF CARLOS ROJAS GARCIA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHAT PRODUCTS HAVE YOU DISPOSED WHEN YOU'RE PURCHASING? [[File number 180/001142]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u33	Questions to the first Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economic Affairs and Digital Transformation. Question by Mr Carlos Rojas García, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, please explain why you are refusing to accept the proposal by the People's Party to lower the VAT on meat, fish and cans. Correct now and listen to the People's Party. You can't waste any more time, ladies and gentlemen. January has hit us again with inflation, and the underlying, the structural, has gone to the highest figure since 1986. We Spaniards suffer from this increase in prices and we also suffer from a government that has raised more than 31 billion euros extra to all Spaniards and refuses to deflate the IRPF to the Spanish families who need it most, as the People's Party is asking. Madam Vice-President, return those extra income back to the Spanish families who need it the most. The shopping basket - you know - is fired. Well, you know you have to question him, because the other day he said that when he went to the supermarket he saw that prices were going down. Your Honor, I assure you it must be a unique case, but explain to us, illustrating us with your example. Where's that? Where are the prices going down in Spain? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u35	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u36	Thank you, President. Indeed, inflation has been the most serious problem from an economic point of view last year, and from the Government we have taken measures that have been very effective in containing it. Inflation dropped five points in five months last year. In fact, the January advance figure indicates a fall in the price index for general consumption and also in the underlying price index. What we have to see is the impact of the last package of measures we adopted in December, which entered into force on 1 January. We do not yet have the detailed data on how the price of food has evolved in January, but, indeed, your honor, the purchase of my house already reflects that drop in prices. It's true that, like all Spaniards, I'm looking for offers... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u37	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u38	...,I buy seasonal fruit and I have seen that in those products where VAT has fallen, prices have fallen. That is the information that the distribution groups also transmit to us. But we have to stay on the same line. Last week we adopted an important package of aid to farmers to compensate for the increase in fertilizers, which is one of the cost factors leading to an increase in food, in the same way that we have also strengthened aid and food programmes for the most vulnerable groups. From the government we have not stopped acting, and I hope at some point the People's Party will support us in this fight against inflation, which, as I say, is already bearing fruit. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u39	Mr. Rojas.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u40	They're coming down for you. Sugar is 50 % more expensive, butter 42 %, milk 37 % and oil 35 %. The shopping basket is in the clouds, prices are not falling and legal uncertainty is being triggered. Your government is chaos, your government is ruin, Your Honor. We are the last in employment across Europe, we double the youth unemployment rate in Europe, we double the unemployment rate in women across Europe with their government, we are the last in Europe in economic recovery by their government. That is true, you are the first in Europe to impose the plastic tax, you are the first to break social dialogue with job creators, you are the first to suffocate and suffocate at quotas to the self-employed, by the way, with bad legislation and sometimes even dangerous legislation. You - I remind you - are responsible for coordinating government policies and you are also responsible for the failure of the yes is yes, as is President Sánchez and his entire government. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Don't ever forget, Your Honor. His government is a major failure: 70,000 more unemployed in January, 20,000 fewer self-employed, the shopping basket, I insist, is fired and mortgages are rising. Solutions must be put in place to help Spanish families, which the Government has to do and does not do. I assure you that this is not the government that the Spaniards wanted, nor the one that their voters wanted. Legitimacy of origin, yes, ladies and gentlemen; legitimacy in exercise, no. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Rojas. Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u42	Thank you, President. The truth is that when I was talking about peaks of unemployment, youth unemployment, women's unemployment and so on, I thought I was talking about data from the People's Party governments. [[Applauds]] The truth is that his strategy of alarm and catastrophe is not supported by the data. The truth is that the leader of his party - I remember - here, in parliamentary office, said that Spain was on the verge of bankruptcy in 2021, and the economy grew by 5.5%; last year, its new leader, Mr. Feijóo, who by the way has not changed the brown tone of Wednesday morning here, said that we were back on the verge of bankruptcy, and the economy grows by 5.5%. [[rumors]] Inflation is in Spain at the very least in the European Union and at the very least in the euro area - you will have to recognise this - thanks to the measures we adopted last year, and the fact is that the trend is positive in this area, as in the rest. We have minimal levels of unemployment, minimum levels of youth unemployment, has significantly increased since 2018 the number of households that have all their members employed, more than a million, and since they do not work the argument of the economy, because the economy is going well, they use something so horrific... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u43	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IVAN SPINOSIS OF THE SIMON MONTERS, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: WHY DOES THE SUBJECTLY HIGHEST INFLATION OF THE LAST THREE AND SEVEN YEARS SPANISH? [[File number 180/001139]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u44	Question by Mr Iván Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, that inflation is in the clouds is empirical evidence. The price of the shopping basket rose in December to record levels of 15.7%, the highest level since the start of the statistical series in 1994. There is inflation in fuels and there is inflation in perishable products, such as fruits, vegetables or high socialist prices. But even if we exclude these fresh ones and therefore measure only the underlying inflation, we do not find any truly alarming data, and it is that the underlying inflation in December was at 7%, the highest rate since 1992. [[laughs]] Why does Spain have the highest underlying inflation rate in more than thirty years?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u46	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u47	Thank you very much, President. As I have had occasion to explain on numerous occasions and this very morning, the fact is that the phenomenon of inflation does not refer to Spain, it is a phenomenon of global scope, resulting from the rise in energy prices, from the restrictions on raw materials, in the agricultural field from the rise of fertilizers and other costs of production by the cuts in the global supply chains. Last year, in fact since 2012, we started taking measures that have had a very significant impact, they have allowed us to lower inflation by five points in five months in 2022. The latest package of measures, for the January advanced data, is already having a positive effect, since both the general CPI and the underlying CPI, which, as you know well, excludes fresh food and energy, these two indices, have fallen with respect to December, despite the fact that important measures, such as the general improvement of fuels, have been eliminated, and there has been a significant methodological change. And all this points to a Government that acts with determination and a President of the Government that faces the face, as he pointed out this morning, and that addresses the problems and solves them. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u48	Señor Espinosa de los Monteros.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u49	Madam Minister, it is surprising that I have just told you that you have the highest data in the last thirty years on the price of the shopping basket and on the underlying inflation and you are trying to say that things are better. What is true is that you have said a certain thing, and that is that you have changed the methodology, and I refer to what a former socialist minister said: the data are not yours, they are from the citizens; at least you should publish what the CPI data would be with the old methodology so that we can link the series. Miguel Sebastián, former minister of the PSOE. It was addressed to you, Minister, because you cheat on everything, you have not left a statistic behind or an institution without manipulating. The three economic ministries of this Government have changed the way in which their data are processed and published. Yolanda Díaz has done so with the fixed discontinuous, which excludes unemployment statistics to half a million inactive. We told him, you said no and now you can't deny it and you say you're separating them. The Ministry of Social Security has done so by inventing a new deseasonalized method that artificially improves unemployment data for this government by the time of the elections. And you, minister, let's remember that in summer the president of the INE changed because he didn't like how the data worked, he also did. But still, there is no manipulation that can conceal the truth; and the truth, Minister, is that the Spanish economy remains below the pre-pandemic level and that Spain remains a country that destroys employment, especially in the private sector, no matter how much you try to compensate it by artificially creating jobs in the public sector. Unemployment continues to rise and inflation, Minister, which you said for months was a cyclical phenomenon, is not only a structural phenomenon since you are the government, but, as I say, is at the highest rates in the last 30 years. Minister, you can manipulate the data and strangle it until you sing what you want, but you no longer deceive the Spaniards. The Spanish every time they go to the purchase - and they do go to the purchase, not like you-know that they are going up the shopping basket more than 15%. The Spaniards know it, minister, and they will remember it in the next election. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u50	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u51	Thank you very much, President. I'd call her to cover the file. It has no way of explaining that they voted against the labour reform which has had an absolutely spectacular result in the labour market in terms of job creation, reducing unemployment and improving the quality and stability of employment, especially for women and young people. They cannot explain that they have voted against all the measures that have allowed us to lower inflation 5 points in five months and that they will continue to allow us to have a path of sustained, sustainable and fairer economic growth for the future. And since they have no arguments, what do they do? Attack and question democratic institutions. Man, coming from VOX, I'm not even surprised. Mr Espinosa de los Monteros seeks better arguments to try to explain the inexplicable, and that is that they never, by mistake, defend the interest of the Spaniards. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE GIRL INES ARRIMED GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, FORMULATING THE VICE-President OF THE AND MINISTER OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS AND DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION: DO YOU THINK THE ECONOMIC ROUND OF THE GOVERNMENT IS PROTECTING IN THE JOINT OF THE SPANISH FAMILIES? [[File number 180/001147]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u52	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u53	Mrs. Calviño, I'm going to give you a real example. Manuel is a self-employed person in a private company, earns around 1600 euros a month and has two children. With your partner's salary you have to pay mortgage, car, gasoline, out-of-school activities, someone to help you at home, the shopping basket - which is in the clouds - and many more things. I ask you: do you consider that your Government's economic measures are protecting the families who are in Manuel's situation?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u54	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u55	Thank you, President. Yes, Your Honor, from the very beginning, since 2018, we have carried out an economic policy that, with the three axes fiscal responsibility, social justice and structural reforms, is leading to an improvement in the quality of life of the Spaniards and allowing us to respond in the best possible way to the extraordinary situations that we have experienced. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u56	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u57	I have set this example because I want to talk about the Spaniards most forgotten by your government, of Spain invisible to you, because you see rich everywhere, but they are not, because charging 1600, 1700 or even 1800 euros in a city like Madrid or Barcelona - or any other great city of Spain - is not to be rich. They are people who get up at six or seven in the morning, who work very long days, have probably studied a career and have a job of responsibility and, despite everything, have no time for anything, and have very difficult to reconcile. These people wonder every day whether it is worth trying so hard to always be the ones who pay the most and those who receive the least. You will now be able to come with a few measures, but what I want to tell you is that there are many families that hardly rub none. They have raised the minimum income and the minimum wage, but Manuel does not benefit, it is up to him to pay. What you have done for the rise of the mortgages, it is not up to him, it is up to him to pay. You have raised all pensions by 9%, those of 3000 euros too, but Manuel is not pensioners, it is up to him to pay. Staff salaries have risen by 8.5 per cent over three years, but Manuel is not a staff member, he has to pay; he would have liked to have been paid by 9 per cent. And don't tell me, please, that Manuel's VAT has been reduced by not knowing how many products or' that for a few months he had a discount bonus on gasoline, because the shopping basket and gasoline have gone up a lot more than that, and you know it; and I guess today he won't want to talk to me about trains that don't fit through the tunnels. Think that the taxes paid by people like him are paid for all the aid he does not receive and also the most expensive government in history, including the Ministry of Equality, headed by the Minister of Equality, who continues to take the law out of her own hands today. Finally, on this subject, I only tell you one thing, please stop fighting each other, recognize once and for all the bottle error and settle this law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u58	Madam First Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u59	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Arrimadas, there have been many questions in which I have been able to unravel all the measures that have benefited citizens as a whole since 2018 and, in particular, that middle class to which you refer, which is the priority objective of all the measures, starting with the protection of the productive fabric, the employment and the incomes of families during the pandemic period; following the various tax breaks that benefit particularly the lower incomes and the support checks. But, in addition, all the measures of those 45 billion euros that we have mobilised from public resources benefit the Spanish families. Do not trivialize the decrease of VAT, it is a very important measure to lower food prices, as was the bonus of fuels. And the gratuitousness of public transport, or is it that Manuel or that family to which you refer - which is to which we govern - does not benefit from public transport? You constantly try to invisible something that is fundamental, that is public services, that security network that makes us stronger and that allows us to face in the best possible way challenges like those that have hit us in recent years, and will also help us to have strong, sustainable and just growth for the future. I'm talking to you about public health, education, infrastructure. Aren't taxes the ones that pay for all these public services? Mrs Arrimadas, why do you always try to make visible what unites us, the social fabric, the social infrastructure of our country, which is one of the elements that makes us stronger for the past and, above all, will make us stronger for the future? I ask you, Mrs Arrimadas, to try, moreover, to avoid facing some classes with others, some citizens with others, one type of family with another, young people against the elderly, because the rise of pensions, the minimum living income, the revaluation of non-contributory pensions and everything that helps the most vulnerable groups makes us stronger and benefits all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY INES MARIA CAÑIZARES PACHECO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMULATES THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND Vice-President: WHY DIDN'T YOU WANT TO Attend THE HIGH-LEVEL MEETING WITH MARRUECOS? [[File number 180/001140]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u60	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u61	Thank you, President. Minister, why did you not want to attend the High-level Meeting with Morocco? With regard to that meeting, I have to say that there are two people who have taken the same position against Mr Sánchez: the king of Morocco, with his tyrant refusal to receive him who was heard up to Cincinnati, and you, Madam Second Vice-President of the Government, who, despite having been invited to that meeting, refused to accompany the President of a Government of which you are Vice-President Second. From this we can infer that we are before a split government and not a coalition government. However, we went to check your official agenda to see if in those days of February you had it full of events and meetings, question that could justify your absence in Rabat, but - oh surprise!- your agenda was like this, like this leaflet, blank. [[shows a leaf]] Only a reference was made to a meeting or meeting with trade unions - the shellfishmen, surely - with the aim of perhaps wanting to force the legitimate decisions of a coalition government that does work, the Government of Castile and León, of which, as you know, is part VOX, and which has taken the courageous decision to prioritize the rights of workers to fill their allowances, instead of filling the pockets of the trade union caste that takes advantage of the money of employment policies and does not return the stolen ones. [[Rumors]] And it is that, despite the legacy of precarious work received from these forty years - and to which you yourself alluded yesterday in the Senate - the Government of Castile and León, just seven months after its formation, has placed this region as the third of Spain with the lowest unemployment rate, 8.83 %, reducing unemployment five times more than the national average, especially among the youngest women in the region. Therefore, their strategy of plotting and manipulation does not work because policies are not measured by their intentions, but by their results, and these show with real data how VOX fights where it governs superfluous spending and how the 20.5 million euros that the Employment Council - with VOX at the head - has cut subsidies to trade unions have served to promote effective policies that already generate employment. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u62	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u63	Your Honor, thank you for your question, but since you question me about international politics, I will talk about your party's conception of international politics. I am going to recover a few statements from Mr Abascal telling all the Spanish and Spanish that he had no convictions in international politics, and I am going to ask him a question. Your Honor, what decent policy can be pursued without conviction? It seems to me that my position on Sahara and Morocco is well known: we would like to see a fair exit within the framework of the United Nations and respecting human rights. I believe that this is what thousands of Spanish families want who welcome Saharan children every summer, care for them and ensure their rights. Your Honor, I will recall some of VOX's international policy prescriptions. The first one you have given us is the great idea that you have had to raise a wall in Ceuta and Melilla paid for by Morocco. The second occurrence you have had, ladies and gentlemen, is to send warships - that is, frigates - to the Canary Islands. I believe that international policy is serious and deserves rigour. It is true that you emulate the various hate parties in the world, from the first, we already know the great idea: to raise a wall in Mexico. The second, indeed, is Hungary and Orban, emulating anti-abortion laws and now they also want to be unconstitutional by making social dialogue disappear in Castile and León and violating women's rights in our country. Your Honor, I do not think you are serious about your proposals for international policy. I am convinced that citizens want to abandon the policy of force and threat that you make. And I know that Mr Aznar has now become fashionable again in the People's Party, they have rescued him, but it seems to me that the summary of the international policy of VOX and of the violation of women's fundamental rights can be found in a photo: that of Aznar's ridiculousness in Perejil. That is his international policy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u64	Mrs Cañizares, would you like to intervene again? [[Denials]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARGARITE PROHENS RIGO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: WHY HAS THE GOVERNMENT APPROVED THE DRAFT LAW OF 'YES' TO KNOW THAT IT WOULD REDUCE THE PENUS OF SEXUAL AGRICTORS? [[File number 180/001144]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u65	Question addressed to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mrs Margarita Prohens Rigo, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u66	Thank you, Madam President. There are 415 beneficiaries, 40 released; undesirable effects. Let's see if they understand it better. In November 2002 in Campos, my hometown, a twenty-four-year-old man took his ex-girlfriend in his car, with whom he maintained a friendly relationship, and forced her to have sex. Weeks later, the same man offers to take a known woman to his home and in the course of the road stops and forces her to practice a blowjob; do not say anything or you will see yourself in the cemetery, threatened her. Weeks later, he was arrested. He was convicted in 2009, but on 16 February he was released before serving the sentence; undesirable effects. It is the published story of one of the three aggressors released in Balearic Islands. Four out of ten aggressors have benefited, while the PSOE continues to defend the law. Why did the Government adopt the bill of yes yes knowing that it would benefit sexual aggressors? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u67	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u68	Thank you, President. Your Honor, this government defends the law, because it is a real novelty in our system to address the preventive aspects of protection and prosecution of crimes from an integral perspective. The model followed by the comprehensive protection law against gender-based violence is a very positive one and has also been highly valued by countries in our environment and by civil society agencies. What you tell, personally and as a professional, reaches my soul. I say this because it is not something I have seen in the news or read in the newspapers, but because they are cases, they are women, they are boys and girls, they are aggressors whom I have had to see face to face, whom I have had to look into my eyes in my other life, in my professional life when I was a judge, and I sincerely recognize the seriousness of this situation. I think it's something very serious and we have to act for the victims. Obviously, the law has had effects that were not the desired ones. We have acted from the very beginning. [[Rumors]] Since the first sale we have been studying the resolutions and analyzing what was said in them, what was the reaction also of the Attorney General's Office and how it was being resolved by the Supreme Court. Precisely, in the face of these reactions and the rulings issued by the courts, we understand the focus of the problem. The focus of the problem was the reduction of penalties, and that is where we have acted, in the reduction of penalties. We have started to work from the very beginning, trying to do so in the best possible way to shield the rights of the victims, their freedom and their security, because I can assure you that what moves this Government is the victims, Your Honor. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u69	Mrs. Prohens.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u70	Mrs. Llop, I'm glad you feel responsible because this is your law. This is the law Sanchez, it's the law Diaz, it's the law Marlaska and it's the law Llop, but it's also the law Paige, it's the law Vara, it's the law Andreu and it's the law Armengol. [[Applauds]] This is the law of the PSOE. You said it as Minister of Justice, but as a judge you had a double responsibility and, whatever you say today, you chose to shut up. He shut up when Mr. Sánchez said it was a feminist milestone, he shut up when the secretary of state laughed at the victims, he shut up when the government insulted his comrades and called them toga slices, he shut up when Patxi López said that the judges had to be touched and he shut up when they were all praised and he rejected the reform offered by the People's Party in December to end up copying it two months later and an endless amount of pain later. But the damage is irreversible and you, as a judge, also know it. The horror caused is irreparable and you have not even asked for forgiveness. Can you imagine how many women like Zamora will have to flee to the threats of their aggressors? Or how are the fifty-six victims of Andalusia who have sought psychological and legal help from the Board? You're gonna change the law... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u71	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prohens. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, all I want to say is that, of course, I feel absolutely responsible for this reform and I assume firsthand what can happen. I believe that we must act to protect the rights and freedoms of victims and their security. An adequate penalty, a proportionate penalty, morally repays the victims, of which there is no doubt, but I also wonder, with all this you have said, where was the People's Party every time this Government has adopted any measures in favour of women? [[A honourable Member: Yes, calm, calm]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GALVAN ERJON, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC SERVICE: WHAT TAX MEASURES WILL THE GOVERNMENT TAKE TO GUARANTEE THE FINANCING OF PUBLIC HEALTH? [[File number 180/001134]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u73	Questions to the Minister for Finance and Public Service. Question by Mr Íñigo Errejón Galván, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, what fiscal measures will the government take to ensure sufficient funding for public health?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u75	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Errejón, I think you are perfectly aware of how resources are distributed among the different territorial administrations. For a long time now, the autonomous financing system has ceased to be a finalist for any particular item. This means that the autonomy of the territories is respected so that they can devote the percentage they understand and that their parliaments decide on public health, dependence or social services. He also knows that this government from day one, contrary to what the People's Party did during the financial crisis, did not abandon to its fate the armoring of the public services that provide health, education and dependence in the hands of the autonomous communities; quite the contrary. Since President Pedro Sánchez arrived in Moncloa, 34% more funding has been made available to the Autonomous Communities, which means, in cumulative terms, more than EUR 100 billion more than they received the previous year. In addition, Mr Errejón, at the toughest moments, when the Spanish Government had to pursue a policy that allowed for a fair distribution of resources, chose to shield public health and did so through the COVID funds, which provided more than 40 billion euros that allowed us to double the beds of UCI and care for the necessary professionals to the people who were coming. In short, we have always emphasized public health. So, it is the autonomous governments that are to allocate those resources definitively to the end that we pursue. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u77	Mr. Errejón.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u78	Minister, neoliberalism is an ideology, basically, psychopath, that has told us for too long that we could never be fragile and that we always had to be selfish, proud and self-sufficient; that we neither need the other nor ever take care of anyone. [[a Member of Parliament: Hala!]] But this is a huge lie because everyone is vulnerable and because everyone breaks down at some point, and when that happens nobody saves themselves. What guarantees the freedom of the frail is not to pretend that we are self-sufficient, but to recognize ourselves as frail and to establish institutions that care for each other and thus make us strong. Public health is perhaps the best example of this. An institution that allows us to live free from fear of falling sick or to be indebted for life by a transplant. Some people are going to shock me, but public health is a piece of socialism, a community in which everyone contributes according to their abilities and everyone receives according to their needs. The date sounds the same to them. This system works and educates in citizenship, in which cooperating we can live better. That is why the right has at the heart of its ideological project to dismantle public health. This is not just for your friends to do business, it's deeper; it's to transform your consciences and turn your citizens into customers, erasing any idea of the common good, changing it to save anyone. Minister, I live in Madrid, where the demolition of public health carried out by the PP is not an error or neglect, it is its model. It is a cruel model and, moreover, it happens now that it is an obsolete model, now that everywhere the idea of the entrepreneurial and responsible State is returning. This new consensus, Minister, we have to take advantage of, and take advantage of, is to make it irreversible. How? Supported social, cultural and legal rights. We must take advantage of this new correlation of forces in order, from now on, to make untouchable what really matters: public health. That is why, Minister, I urge you to establish a minimum state level of health expenditure that guarantees the right to health in all autonomous communities. This Sunday, hundreds of thousands of Madridns will go out on the street to defend public health. Citizenship is already doing its part, now the state has to do its part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u79	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u80	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. I can only share that COVID has - in my opinion - been a lesson of humility for society as a whole, so that it knows that it is vulnerable, that it is not, of course, alien to the fact that a virus can change everything in a matter of days and can even lead us to total confinement. Likewise, the National Health System has been the great achievement - you will understand that you say this for my profession - that this country has made in terms of redistribution of wealth, in terms of, if there is a health solution, being able to provide it to anyone regardless of their income. Finally, Mr Errejón, I collect your contribution towards autonomous financing on the basis that there may be some items... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. - the Joint Parliamentary Group, which forms the Government: what urgent measures will it adopt? THE GOVERNMENT TO REFORM THE SYSTEM OF AUTONOMIC FINANCING AND CORREGING THE SERIOUS DEPARTMENTS THAT INSTITUTION SOME AUTONOMOUS COMMUNITIES - IN THE CASE OF ASTORIES - CAN TAKE CARE OF THE PRIORITY BASIC SERVICES IN HEALTH, EDUCATION, SOCIAL SERVICES AND DEPENDENCE? [[File number 180/001135]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u82	Question by Mr Isidro Manuel Martínez Oblanca, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. Some information from the last few days gives us the opportunity to formulate interesting and important questions concerning Asturias. It could be the case of the tragic and unfortunate episode of trains that do not fit in the tunnels of the railway network of metric width or the umpteenth mockery about the timing of commissioning of the variant of Pajares. It could also be the disastrous data from the 2022 Labour Force Survey, with unemployment in Asturias. But after listening last week to the Socialist President of the Principality here in Madrid, arguing with five ministers that the Finance Ministers should turn their backs on faquir, he asked the government whether it intends to mortify itself by reforming the autonomous financing system on which health care and other essential basic services depend.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u84	Minister of Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u85	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say, Mr Martínez Oblanca, that your intervention has been incomprehensible. Don't I know if you want to mess with Mr. Barbon, if you want to mess with the government or are you just making points for the People's Party? The truth is, I haven't been able to get the tone of what you came to claim. If you want to talk about autonomous financing, which is the content of the question, I will give you some data. In Asturias, since Pedro Sánchez is President of the Government, more than EUR 2 billion more has been received in terms of autonomous financing than was received when the People's Party ruled, in accumulated terms. If you refer to extraordinary funds, Asturias had an additional €1 billion, regardless of the model, which was provided to you during the toughest moments of the pandemic. And if you are referring to how health, education, dependency or social services are being managed in Asturias, I want to say that I am personally proud of the management that is being done in Asturias because health services are being shielded, has been exemplary in the management of the pandemic and, ultimately, is proving to be an autonomous community capable of developing a policy with the sole interest of protecting its citizens. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u86	Mr. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u87	It would be appropriate, Mrs Montero, for you to explain the tone and the pretexts to those responsible for the autonomous communities, including those of your own party, who are complaining that the system is not being reformed. One of the main commitments of the government coalition was the reform of the autonomous financing system, which has expired, Mrs Montero, for more than eight years. In particular, Mr Sánchez in his investiture here proclaimed that this would be the legislature of autonomous financing, but it has proved another colossal deception. The current model, approved at the stage of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, is unfair, unequal, insolidary and very harmful to adequately meet the essential basic services of millions of Spaniards, specific case of health or care for the elderly. You see, Minister of Finance, now that time is up and running for some people, the electoral troubles come in the face of poor health, the growing discontent of users with waiting lists and deficiencies in health centres, hence the fierce competition to hire the insufficient and poorly paid doctors and nurses, and, in any case, to meet the priorities arising from aging, which in the case of Asturias is one of the most...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, of course, we have been working - and you should know this - with the Autonomous Communities on the reform of the funding system. There have been different meetings, proposals made by the Central Executive, something that had never happened in the reform of a funding model, and the aim of the Government of Spain is to continue to make progress. You were wondering what happened during this legislature. Mr Martínez Oblanca must be the only one who does not know that there has been a pandemic and that the Government has provided the autonomous communities with additional resources, precisely because of this absence of reform by the previous executive; there has been a war in Ukraine that has obviously focused the attention of all public administrations to solving the problem of citizens, and we continue to work towards a new funding that will allow all territories, which have different interests during this debate, to aspire to the best possible resources. I hope, Mr Martínez Oblanca, that you will contribute to this model and, therefore, that we will be able to know your proposals, which to date have been... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DONA ANA BELEN VÁZQUEZ BLANCO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE LORD MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR: WHY DID THE MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR DEVELOPED TO THE CHIEF OF THE COMMANDANCE OF CIVIL GUARD IN MELLIA? [[File number 180/001145]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u91	Question to the Minister for the Interior. Question by Mrs Ana Belén Vázquez Blanco, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u92	Thank you, Madam President. To the absent Minister of Justice I want to tell you where the People's Party was: before passing the law of yes or yes, warning her that it was a chaff; then, voting against, and, once that law was passed, chaffing out sexual rapists and aggressors, presenting a bill to reform it, which you, by the way, have paralyzed. [[applause]] And do you know what the Spanish are asking themselves? Where were the three magistrates sitting on the Council of Ministers, including Mr Marlaska, watching how he was going to release rapists? Where were you, Mr. Marlaska, watching the victims go through hell? [[several ladies and gentlemen: very well!-Applause]] But, look, can you explain to us - since you must have been so busy - why did you stop Colonel Melilla? And I tell you one thing: it didn't stop behind the chain of command, because the chain of command is you, and so it was proved in the oral trial at Colonel Pérez de los Cobos' National High Court. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u93	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. I see it hasn't changed since Christmas. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] I would just like to say that the Socialist Party and the socialist governments are the governments of the rights and freedoms of the women's collective as a whole, the LGBT collective, etc. [[Applauds]] And you, on the other hand, are the champions filing unconstitutionality appeals against progress in rights and freedoms, and I refer directly to history. [[Rumors]] With regard to the cessation of Colonel Melilla, I, of course, in the chain of command, am the one who is above it, but that decision is taken by the commanders, their direct leaders, on the understanding that the criteria of effectiveness and efficiency that the security policy should address advised their transfer to the Head of Education; a decision that I, of course, support and respect. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u95	Mrs. Vazquez.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u96	Is it true that he stopped the colonel because he was asking for a protocol for the assaults on Melilla's fence? Is it true that the colonel stopped asking that, like the civilian guards were being investigated, the immigrants who had assaulted those civilian guards should be investigated? Or was it that you were demanding that the civilian guards look elsewhere, that they fail to comply with the law, and that if they were assaulted by immigrants, they would not initiate proceedings? If Colonel Torresano was appointed two months earlier by the Secretary of State because he met the conditions, will you cease the Secretary of State? Or do you just stop crowning, Mr. Marlaska? Mr. Marlaska, you have no doubts, like Sanchez, as to whether it's going to happen to history. You are going to happen, you have it guaranteed. You will pass into history because you have all the associations of the Civil Guard against you, because you are the minister of lies, because you leave the civil guards in Melilla abandoned; you will pass through your sectarianism, through the record of unjust and unjustified cessations; you will pass through playing with the professionals of the Civil Guard and the police, who fall at your will; you will pass as the Minister of the Interior of the kick to the Civil Guard; you will pass through the Minister of the Interior who was most loved by those who violate the law than by those who dedicate their lives to defending it. You, Mr. Marlaska, and not Colonel Torresano, are the ones who do not meet the personal and professional conditions to remain in office! You, Mr. Marlaska, leave the security forces alone and leave now! [[Applause. - Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u97	Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Vazquez. Not by yelling more - I've told you a thousand times - you're more right. [[Applauds]] You have to be aware that in politics you can do anything but ridicule. And today you are doing, as on other occasions, the ridiculous. [[Rumors]] And I'll explain it to him, if I'm allowed to explain it to him. Obviously, it was a cessation of the chain of command, which support and respect, for circumstances of effectiveness and efficiency. That's right, don't be ridiculous anymore. You spoke of the National Court; other cessations that have occurred in my ministry have been endorsed by the National Court and the Supreme Court. Don't be ridiculous. With regard to the Civil Guard in Melilla, it was this minister who at all times supported the performance of the Civil Guard by standing in front of it, not behind it, and being confirmed by the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. Yesterday the BBC rectified a report that you gave more validity to than you gave to the Civil Guard reports. Look, this Minister of the Interior has been and will always be before the Civil Guard, because he acts according to the criteria, as I have always said, of legality and proportionality. Not like other ministers of the People's Party, who in October 2017 said in the trial, regarding the men and women who were there working, that they knew nothing, that they did not give orders, that they did not; that is, as always, leaving them alone. As they left them in the Piolin, and you neither for one nor for another... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs. ALICIA GARCIA RODRIGUEZ, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHEN THE SPAIN WILL RECOVER THE RAILWAY FRUITS BEFORE THE PANDEMIA? [[File number 180/001146]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u100	Questions to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mrs Garcia Rodríguez, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u101	Minister, ridicule is what you do every day with your scandals. You, minister, are unable to recover pre-pandemic frequencies, but you are able to hire trains that do not fit through the tunnels. This is not a joke, this is a splash of sanchismo and company. [[Applauds]] This is the reality of a ministry that wants to dismantle and end the railway in Spain. This is the result of the incompetence of a government that only eats with citizens, because it is impossible to make it worse. How much more damage are they going to do to Spain? [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u102	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs García, look, during these days I think I have given the explanations, I have assumed responsibility and, moreover, I have recognized that I am the first angry and outraged at this situation, with that error that has occurred. But, after the heat, it is precisely that, to apologize, to give face, to purify responsibilities and I assure you that the corresponding responsibilities will be resolved, one by one, to its ultimate consequences. We must do what we are doing, what it is to commission an audit, both to Renfe and to ADIF, to know what has happened and, of course, to make available to the citizens all the resources so that this delay, which is obviously due to be caused by a redesign of the trains to be carried out, is done as soon as possible. But cry out to heaven that it be you who speak of shame, that it be you who speak of wantonness, when you have used power to serve the culture of corruption. [[Protests]] It is you who have never recognized a mistake, and I give you an example of the case of the radials: we are still waiting for you to apologize for the disaster in the planning and for the error of the radials, whose rescue will cost us the Spanish millions of euros. But what are we going to expect from a People's Party that, four years after this government won the elections, does not recognize that Spain has a legitimate and democratic government! Obviously, this would never have happened to you. And you know why it wouldn't have happened to them? Because during their years of government they did not buy a single train destined for the network of closenesses, not because you do things right, but because you do not allocate a single euro to the purchase of trains. [[applause]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u104	Mrs. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u105	Minister, while President Sánchez is eager to pass on to history, you have moved on to the worst history of the Ministry of Transport by hiring thirty-one trains that do not fit through the tunnels of Asturias and Cantabria You are also in your tunnel, from which neither the president of Cantabria nor the president of Asturias will take it out; that tunnel of ignorance and disability, that tunnel that accumulates ministers who take no responsibility or mistakes. [[Applauds]] Of course, it's a government full of mistakes. It is justified to say that it will not cost money, but that this project is financed with European funds whose commitment to completion is on 31 December 2024. [[Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, Sánchez Jiménez: No, no]] They will not meet deadlines, with the risk of losing funding and delays. It parapets on the ceses of two gentlemen passing by. Since you are not going to resign because you prefer to be the mockery of the Spaniards, stop who was then the president of ADIF, who today in his secretary of state, who has hidden it for two years [[Applauds]] I am going to talk about my land, Avila, where you, in five years of government, have eliminated services, suppressed frequencies and closed stations. I don't know if you know that more than a year ago we manifested 4000 Abulenses asking for a 21st century train Madam Minister, on Sunday the station was a chaos, of six scheduled trains, four had delays of more than an hour. [[shows a photograph]] Meet the Railway Table, invest in the Abulense railway line, buy trains and, if you do, take a good look at them. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u106	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Garcia, you, no matter how loud you scream, are not credible. This case can serve them to attack the government by generating social unrest, because, moreover - I insist - we recognize the error and we will put all the means to remedy it. But I would also like to make it clear that trains, infrastructure and investments will reach the cantabres and the cantabres, they will reach the Asturians and the Asturians, because this Government, despite the mistakes, is trying to correct the problems that in most cases have inherited from a disastrous management of the party's government... [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u108	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN BALDOVI RODA, OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT VALUE THE SITUATION OF THE CERCANIA SERVICE IN THE VALENTIAN TERRITORY? [[File number 180/001131]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u109	Question by Mr Baldoví Roda, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u110	Thank you very much, President. Minister, how does the Government assess the situation of the service of proximity in Valencian territory?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u111	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Baldoví, I have said this on some occasion, but I must remind you that the services in our country have a satisfactory average punctuality, above the punctuality of the main European capitals, such as Paris, London or Brussels. Of course there may be incidents, and there are, and in the case of Valencia many of them are produced by works that affect the Mediterranean Corridor, works that are necessary but that, as I said, sometimes cause incidents. From the Government we are committed to improving the infrastructure network and, of course, to improving the timeliness and reliability of services. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u113	Mr. Baldoví.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u114	In response to a question from Compromís we were answered that the demand for services in the neighbourhood core, from January to November 2022, had fallen by 11% in Valencia compared to 2019, and by 22% in Alicante also compared to 2019. Admitting this in a parliamentary response is admitting that we have a problem, and if we have a problem we have to look for the causes, and the causes are often reflected in the headlines of the media: discomfort, indignation, delays, cancellations, suppressions. The discomfort is expressed with the formation of citizen platforms; I tell you only three that there are in Valencian territory, Indignats amb Renfe, Trains Dignes al Maestrat or Salvem el Tren. Only in January each day have there been cancellations in the vicinity, and within those trains there are people who work, who study, who have medical appointments, who will buy or do tourism, in short, who arrive late where they want to get to. We are already reaching the point where there are frequencies of the AVE that already exceed those of proximity in some lines; for example, the line Valencia-Gandía, which is one of the most popular and profitable that has proximity and that is below those frequencies. Problems are not solved only with good words. Sincerely, minister, the Valencians have the feeling that here we think little about our needs, and I say this not only because of this, but because the financing has not been resolved, the illegitimate debt has not been resolved, civil law will not be solved, the coastal train has not been made. As the People's Party did, by the way, I mean that the blame is shared. And, on the other hand, they're very diligent when it comes to approving others...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. As I was saying, I think we are showing that we are making a very important effort in investment in neighbourhoods in the Valencian Community. This year, 2023, we approved budgets for which we have allocated 360 million euros to these neighbourhoods of the Valencian Community, a budget which we, of course, approved with the support of Compromís, and which includes, thanks to these agreements, an additional 15 million euros. This will enable us to comply with this close-up plan for a total amount of EUR 1500 million, and I would also like to recall that at the beginning of last year we launched the one known as the Sentinel Plan, precisely in order to make a detailed follow-up of the problems that had been detected in the operation of the close-ups in the Valencian Community. I think there was a problem, we were conscious, we acted, we worked hand in hand, side by side with the Valencian Generalitat, and today we can say that the functioning of the services - although there are still incidents - has improved substantially. We have recovered services to 100 per cent, we have improved punctuality by two points compared to the previous year, cancellations of services have significantly decreased, fifty-five drivers have been incorporated and, of course, citizens continue to benefit from these discounts, from that gratuity in the vicinity and the middle distance. This same week I had the opportunity to give the exit gun to the opening works of the access channel of the remodeling of Joaquín Sorolla... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u117	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF THE DEVELOPED DON IÑAKI RUIZ DE PINEDO UDIANO, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMS THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: IS THE MINISTER AWARE OF THE DAMAGE PRODUCED BY TAV WORKS IN THE COVER OF GREAT ARCHEOLOGICAL AND CULTURAL VALUE LEZETXIKI? [[File number 180/001137]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u118	Question by Mr Iñaki Ruiz from Pinedo Undiano, from the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u119	Good morning, Minister. I suppose you will be aware of the serious damage caused by the works of the high-speed train in the cave of Lezetxiki, a cave of Gipuzkoa in a karstic system of enormous value. In this cave, for example, the oldest human remains of the Western Pyrenees are being found. It is a place already classified as a cultural good of special protection. The damage has occurred in an area that has not yet been studied and appears to have occurred some two years ago. The situation has been hidden and made public now because some speleologists have discovered it. So far, ADIF and the Basque Government - you will probably also say - say that these tunnels have not caused damage to the site, in the area already excavated and studied, without taking into account, of course, the whole cave. Minister, my question is whether you are aware of the damage caused by the works of the high-speed train in this area of great archaeological value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u120	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo, according to the information I have, the works are being carried out in accordance with the legislation and the regulations in force and there has been no damage. In any case, they have our commitment that we will continue to invest in the high-speed train, since it is essential, but taking all the necessary precautions to preserve the cultural and archaeological heritage. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u122	Mr. Ruiz de Pinedo.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u123	Minister, these precautions, so far, have not worked. The problem is that action has not been stopped at the time, the consequences of which have not been investigated, which at the time have not been made public and which have been minimized and hidden. So far, you say yourself that, according to the reports you have, there has been no damage. Minister, have you asked for a report on the scope of these conditions, a report that is technical and rigorous? The Town Council of Arrasate and different social actors are asking for a report, clarifications and responsibilities. That's the demand I'm moving here today. In general, the works being carried out are being carried out ahead of karstic zones, dozens of aquifers, protected zones, caves of high archaeological value, and all with total obscurantism. Madam Minister, we must avoid further destruction. All this damage is already irremediable, although we hope that the responsibilities will be clarified and cleared, but what we ask you to do is to reconsider the project in its new features where it is still possible to bet and enable a more social and environment-friendly railway. Please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u124	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo, as I told you, we always perform the works - this and any other work - as set out in the declaration of corresponding environmental impact for the conservation of the natural space, of the fauna and, of course, also of the cultural and archaeological heritage. In this particular case, of course, we have carried out a thorough archaeological follow-up. Not only has this follow-up been carried out, and these reports have been prepared by ADIF technicians, but also, as is mandatory, by the technicians of the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council. These technicians, who have overseen the execution of both departments, indicate that the archaeological site of the Lezetxiki cave has not suffered any damage. Specifically, I want to say that the karst system located in that cave has a development of several kilometers of galleries that are not catalogued or registered because they are not accessible. During the excavation of the Karraskal tunnels, a karstic branch was discovered without cataloging, which is located on the edge of the general karstic system and at a good distance from the Lezetxiki deposit, more than 300 meters away. The technicians of ADIF and the foral council, in close collaboration, decided to carry out a thorough research of the branch through archaeology and speleology teams. These determined, in their preceptive report, that the general state of the cave is good, that no archaeological and paleontological remains have been found, so that the cavities were part of the natural environment and had no protection as heritage. Therefore, the implementation work continued and ended according to the project and has not been affected, I would like to make it clear, in no case the archaeological site of the Lezetxiki cave. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO Parliamentary Group, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCE, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: HAS THE GOVERNMENT CARPETIZED THE SPECIFICATION SANDAL TO THE PEGASUS PROGRAM? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/001136]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u126	Question to the Minister for the Presidency: Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, Member of the Basque Parliamentary Group [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u127	Mr. Minister, has the government given a folder to the espionage scandal through the Pegasus programme? I ask because it was a serious matter - which I understood had been taken seriously - and the truth is that it would be a mistake to close the crisis caused by listening to ministers and the president or by the exaggerated, in my opinion, listening authorized to Catalan politicians and authorities. The President of the Government, dated 26 May, said that they were of course committed - and this is from the official Government page - to a reform of the regulation of the judicial control of the CNI in order to strengthen their guarantees, in order to ensure maximum respect for the political and individual rights of the people. We present a proposal for a law to amend it. On December 13 you voted against and the reason - as the socialist spokesman, Mrs Cantera de Castro, explained - was that the PNV presents a peremptory need for modification and updating, given the serious events that occurred with the spyware of Pegasus. We agree, it is a necessity that is manifest and must be curtailed. The President of the Government already said so on the 26th. It is therefore desirable that the Government of the State submit a draft law and then be able to make amendments. We have recently seen that the legislative timetable presented by the Government makes absolutely no mention of this amendment. I mean, has the president forgotten? Don't you dare change it? Why have you changed your mind in a month? Where is the President's commitment, Minister?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u128	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. If you will allow me, Mr Esteban, before answering your question, I would like to condemn the words of the ultra-rightist leader, Mr Abascal, this very morning, a xenophobic speech of hatred, so dangerous for the coexistence of our country that it cannot go unpunished before anyone who has the slightest democratic sensitivity. [[Applauds]] I deeply regret that Mr Abascal is not here to hear it, but when the ultra-right dawns, he takes a nap soon. [[Laughter]] From here, Mr Esteban, I answer your question. When we heard The New Yorker's information in April last year, in this very House and publicly the Government undertook to carry out various actions to clarify what was reported there, and all the actions we announced were carried out. Internal control was carried out at the National Intelligence Centre itself. An investigation was initiated within the Ombudsman, which already ended with a report in May of the same year. Of course, all the judicial proceedings that have taken place as a result of these events have been assisted. And in this same House the Committee on Official Secrets, which was neither constituted nor constituted, was set up, and the director of the CNI reported to her ladies and gentlemen - to the representatives of all the groups - what the CNI's actions had been. I therefore believe that all those commitments publicly made by the Government, and also by the President of the Government at his appearance here on 26 May, all of them, are fulfilled to clarify the facts we have known through the New Yorker newspaper. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u130	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u131	Will the government, yes or no, submit an amendment to the CNI's control law through the judges? Because today there is no real control; real control is not possible. And besides, there is no ex post control; once authorized, no one knows whether it has been done correctly or not. Minister, there is a democratic commitment on the part of the President of the Government, why does he not appear on the legislative programme? By the way, there is information, complementing this, in the newspaper El País which says that the Official Secrets Act is postponed again. Can you confirm this information? Because it would be scandalous, too. We passed the legislature without changing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u132	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that the democratic commitment of the government is unquestionable and, indeed, the policies of democratic regeneration that this government has carried out since 2018 are already bearing fruit. The ranking of The Economist magazine, which we met this week, shows that Spanish democracy is increasingly quality and is rising in that ranking. Unfortunately, it does not go up all it could because the People's Party continues to violate the Constitution every day. [[Protests]] Every day you fail to comply with the Constitution. [[Addressing the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] They are a non-compliance party with the Constitution. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Aitor Esteban, what I say to you is that the Government's commitment to the democratic regeneration of our country, to democracy, to quality, to the institutions and to the functioning of the rule of law, is an absolutely undisputed commitment and in this respect we will continue to walk. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JAIME EDUARDO DE OLANO VELA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF INCLUSION, SOCIAL SECURITY AND MIGRATION: WHY DOES THE AUTONOMS PURSUANT? [[File number 180/001143]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u134	Question to the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Question by Mr Jaime Eduardo de Olano Vela of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u135	Thank you, President. Mr Escrivá, thousands of self-employed people started the year with a government-poisoned gift: they received an extra 220 euros in their monthly share. I wonder, Mr. Escrivá, whether it was due to insolvency or bad faith. For the same insolvency as with its failed management of minimum living income or with the design of trains that do not fit the tunnels and which portrays its entire Government. Or are we talking about bad faith? As the rise, also in January, of 8,5 % of the contribution bases to all self-employed with automatic renewal. And they do - you have done - apart from the agreement that you had reached with the autonomous. What have the autonomous done to you, Mr Escrivá? Why do you pursue the self-employed? [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u136	Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u137	Thank you, President. Your Honor, of course, I'm after the self-employed. And, because I pursue the self-employed, for the past two years I have signed - the ministry and myself - six consecutive agreements with all the self-employed associations, for which they have been given a protection that had never existed to a million and a half self-employed, to more than half of the self-employed in Spain! [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Indeed, it will be because of that, because I persecute them. And that is why, because I am persecuting you, that just less than a year ago, after decades of trying, I have signed with all self-employed people a new contribution scheme that will allow two out of three self-employed people to contribute less. We signed it with all the associations. That's exactly why I'm chasing them, of course. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u138	Mr. Olano.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u139	Thank you, President. Mr. Escrivá, you haven't told us if you're going to give the self-employed back the extra money. In addition, I will tell you one thing: between believing you and believing the self-governing, you will understand that the People's Party is on the side of the self-governing. [[Several Members: Very well!]] Eighty per cent of the self-employed declare that they have not received a single aid from public administrations and the 20 per cent that have received it says that they were mostly from the self-employed communities. Self-employed people have experienced a 25% increase in costs, but you leave them out of the aid, for example, the 20 cent reduction in fuel or the aid to lower the price of light. Mr Escrivá, in front of his triumphalist account, like that of Mr Sánchez, are the data that disassemble that account. Last year 111 000 self-employed persons ceased their activity, according to the EPA. Last month, 20,800 self-employed people have closed down; 671 self-employed people have stopped working every day in January, Mr Escrivá. Thank God you were the good manager of this broad government! In the face of your obvious lack of management, you apply the cuisine to the purest style of Mr. Tezanos. Only in January have you managed to move from losing 215,000 jobs in the original series to creating 55,000 jobs after applying your new deseasonalisation model. Another deception, Mr.Written; you are true specialists. His Government was always entangled in its own lies, as with the law of yes or yes. Thanks to Mrs. Carmen Calvo we knew that they knew everything: that there were going to be releases of rapists and pederasts and that there were going to be hundreds of discounts of penalties. Everything, they knew everything and everyone knew it, from Mr Sánchez to you, Mr Escrivá. But their lies, of course, do not protect women nor do they protect the self-employed. [[Several ladies and gentlemen: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u140	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u141	Thank you, President. Are you referring, Mr De Olano, to the 400,000 self-employed people who lost their jobs during the crisis until 2018, when you were in the government? Are those 400,000 self-employed people telling you that? Please! [[Applauds.-Protests]] And the virtual reality that you want to create is based on two amazing data. The first is an administrative error - which is already being corrected - for 8000 new self-employed people who have been discharged between 1 and 9 January and who had to be given the super-reduced quota, which will be given in February. Is that the big problem, those 8,000 self-employed? The chaos! What do you tell me, with the new RETA that we are creating after twenty years! Man, please! And the second is the January data. You know perfectly well - or you should know - that in January employment always falls, a few more years and other years less. It's true. Let's look at the data, see what year it was that fell the most: the year 2012. [[Laughs.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u142	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u143	In 2012, 27,000 jobs fell. Here's the thing, taking the fall of every January to counter the fact that the self-employed... Look, ATA was telling us in October 2020 that 400,000 jobs would be destroyed again, but we have more jobs and more self-reliant lives than before the pandemic. [[Applauds.-Protests.-Mr.Hispan Churches of Ussel: Low level!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u144	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. [[Strong Rumors]] I'm asking you for silence, please, and a little education. [[Applauds]] Urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos, into the Government's criteria for intensive and extensive livestock farming and, in particular, the problem of the elimination of purines. For your defense, Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor. [[Rumors]] Mr. Mazon, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u145	Thank you very much. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as you may have noticed when reading the question, we are giving you an opportunity to explain and explain the overall position of your ministry for a sector, such as the farmer, which is fundamental in the country not only economically, but also from a social point of view. [[The Lord]] I know that you are well aware of the position of the Regionalist Party of Cantabria, PRC, in this matter. You have also had the opportunity to listen to the Rural Minister of the Government of Cantabria at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, where Cantabria acted as a representative of the autonomous communities of Spain, as the coordinator within the autonomous sphere. We all agree that the primary sector is fundamental to the country, within it also the livestock sector, and we all say that we must defend it. There is also unanimous practice in which reforms are needed and must be adapted to the new times. Young farmers, the next farmers, will have a different mentality than their parents and grandparents, especially in terms of technology and their concern for the environment. But this does not prevent these objectives, which are medium- and long-term objectives, not immediate, from having to be nuanced. In the meantime, we have to keep the sector alive with all its peculiarities, because it has its virtues but it also has defects that need to be corrected, although they cannot be corrected at the expense of ending the sector. It is clear that the world is progressing, but there are millions of people in the world who go hungry, who die of hunger - it is true that, in progress, there is less and less - and more and more natural resources are needed to consume. For this to be sustainable, a new science, bioeconomy, is being developed. In this regard, I would like to say that Cantabria, as you will surely know, is committed to what is called the strategy of bioeconomy or 'circular economy', which is currently being developed. It is expected that in March the document will be prepared for the strategic environmental assessment, in which all the actors involved in the preparation - and also those who did not - will be pulsed again, and with the result of these procedures it is expected that the strategy will be ready for adoption in the second half of this year, 2023. In general, to understand the situation of this sector, it is very interesting the report that the ministry developed in 2017 and that you know perfectly well, which was commissioned precisely to study the situation of extensive livestock farming in Spain. This report shows the kindness he has and the need for support he needs. We all know that in the fight for competition against intensive livestock farming it does not lead to winning and that it cannot be left alone in this battle, because, if not, the intensive livestock industries will end up monopolising the sector. However, this does not mean, as the report also points out, that facilities that are not socially sustainable need to be upgraded and that they can at best be converted into transitional and artificially viable in a context of total support. On the contrary, it is intended to encourage farms which generate complementary environmental services and which may currently face problems of socio-economic viability due to this competition, but which can be very viable in every sense in the future. I believe that these principles can be shared, although sometimes they do not fit well with the protection of the livestock sector today, of the real sector that feeds us day by day and that has to continue to do so for a long time; this is not happening. That is why, Mr Planas, I would like you to clarify today how the ministry intends to empower these extensive livestock farmers. Nor does it need to be taught a masterly lesson, but it is an opportunity for us to see clearly what the ministry's view is on how to get to the ranchers today, here and now. I would also like to raise a number of very specific questions for you to make a clear statement on. The first, which is present in the title of the inquiry, refers to purines. If one of your ladies is unclear, purines is the word that is used to refer to the set of residues produced by animals - that is, urine, faeces and manure - which then return to the earth and re-enter the natural cycle and, at the same time, are used for fertilizer in fodder production and in other areas. I have already had the opportunity to warn in this rostrum about the danger that the decree that was being processed to establish the rules concerning the sustainable nutrition of agricultural soils could have for the adverse consequences that it could have for the livestock sector, which is a priority and fundamental in Cantabria and in some regions of Spain, especially in all regions of the cantabrian cornice. The cantabrian agricultural sector is eminently livestock and has mainly family farms closely linked to the territory, with a structure of composition of farms with a high degree of dispersion and being enclaved much of them in mountain areas or with natural limitations, to which must be added rather harsh climatic conditions. Faced with this scenario, the demands contained in the regulatory proposal in some cases will be almost impossible to comply with and can also contribute to the abandonment of activity and territory, with consequences for a community that also has parts affected by rural depopulation. This draft regulation generated a great alarm in the sector and came to be debated in the Regional Parliament, where all groups - including the Socialist Group - unanimously adopted a non-legislative proposal calling for the necessary changes to the standards for nutrition. Literally, it was urged, first, that the autonomous communities could establish alternatives for the application of purines and manure, as well as the storage of manure according to climatic characteristics, orographical characteristics, the model of family exploitation and the structure of the minifundist property. However, they have made only a small change in orographical matters in the matter of land slopes. Secondly, with regard to the minimum data to be collected in the farm logbook, they were requested to be modulated according to the economic size of the farm and the type of soil, paying particular attention to the conditions of mountain and communal pastures. Thirdly, it was requested that the requirement of the certificate on agronomic quality be exempted from the uses of the manure on the areas themselves. Except for this and part of the transitional period that I have mentioned, they have hardly changed and the decree remains unsatisfactory. For this reason, we said that here the righteous were punished for sinners, because it was designed to solve problems of highly polluting autonomous communities as a result of a great intensification in pig and avian production. They were even able to get the European Union to sanction the Kingdom of Spain as a result of the contamination of soil nitrates of agricultural origin, and now a model table for all the autonomous communities was applied. Look, here I bring you maps of nitrate contamination throughout Spain, although you don't see them from there, where you see that the condition is very different in different areas of Spain and, in particular, that in the north you are barely a problem. [[shows a map]] Thus, a community like Cantabria, which has no pollution problem, is forced to force its producers to change production practices, to increase costs to pay for soil analysis and to complicate the management of livestock with the carrying of compulsory books that are still very complicated for today's farmers. As a result, traditional practices, such as manure stacking or the use of purines in the family farm itself to fertilize areas, will be very limited. In this case, the circular economy had already been invented by farmers long ago, that is, the exploitation of their own waste in a new production. At a time when, moreover, there is a very serious concern about the lack of fertilizers and the increase in prices as a result of the decrease in ammonia production, it is really incomprehensible that the exploitation of these products from the farm itself is limited. As we said in a previous intervention, this is killing fleas with cannons. Another great damage is extensive livestock farming in large areas, extensive but not in small farms, which also have to comply with this. I'd like to know what the ministry is going to do. Since it has not established in the decree many of the measures requested by the sector, we want to know whether an exception could be made for livestock farming in small livestock farms which cannot meet these requirements of the decree. Another concrete aspect I wanted to comment on is that of the burning of rattles. As you know, the Senate's amendments on the management of the CAP have returned and there was a reference to the burning of traces, with a compromise adopted on an amendment by the Socialist Group which had finally tabled the Republican Left of Catalonia; they were absolutely compatible but with a very poor wording, since in point 3 there was a paragraph with two 'yet'. Sometimes it happens when a short stick is made, but I made it very clear here that I interpreted the Socialist Group's amendment and what Esquerra had said was absolutely compatible; that was very clear and in the Autonomous Community of Cantabria they share this criterion, which is logical if the genesis of the transactional is analysed. Now they tell me that the Ministry of Ecological Transition has drawn a note with an interpretation that does not fit all this, that is, that they are binding it again in this respect. That is why I would like to hear you say to yourself whether you share that interpretation, which was very clear: agricultural micro-farms are exempted from the ban and, in the rest, they are allowed with administrative authorization for phytosanitary reasons or with the aim of preventing fires. It would be very good if it were pronounced here and the ministry officially pronounced.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u146	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u147	Okay. In addition, it is key to fire prevention and it is common sense. I'm waiting for your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u148	I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u149	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mazón, thank you very much for raising this question at this new session. The fact that the subject that this House is dealing with is precisely that of livestock farming seems to me to be very relevant. As you indicated at the beginning of your words, it is a key sector for the Spanish economy as a whole and a key sector for Spain. It is certainly a priority in the action of the Government to which I am honoured to be a party and, obviously, in this context, it is also a priority of my action as Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, especially bearing in mind what is undoubtedly not only the basic livelihood, but also the very axis of the Spanish livestock sector, which is the model of professional and family livestock, a model that combines economic activity with sustainability, tradition and roots, and which is so important for the whole of our country. In fact, between 35% and 40% of the value of agricultural production - some 25.5 billion euros, for example, in 2022 - correspond to this sector and, in the case of Cantabria - for which you are interested - this weight accounts for almost 70% in the production of cattle, sheep and equine animals, and under particular conditions positive for the abundance of pastures and also for the existence of fodder crops, which are very important. Livestock farming is an activity - like all economic activities, but particularly this - in continuous transformation. We have new challenges, new challenges, new needs for economic and social sustainability, but also for environmental sustainability. We have international commitments in the European Union as well as in the United Nations, such as the 2030 Agenda or the Paris Agreement. The fact that more attention is being paid to environmental and animal welfare issues is therefore perfectly in line with this strategy, which is what we in Europe call the Green Pact or the farm strategy to the Bureau. I believe that this does not help to minimize the role of the livestock sector; on the contrary, I believe it strengthens the role of the livestock sector and its image from the point of view of multifunctionality, that is, in all its aspects, not only the productive, but also the environmental, which is positive. That is why we are working with the industry to adapt to the new challenges and the new conditions of production. This is a response to a normative package that I am very proud of and that is my management since June 2018, which is the management of the livestock sector to incorporate the commitments we have at national level and the health, environmental and animal welfare commitments in livestock production. The aim is to make livestock more economically and environmentally sustainable and, in addition, to be competitive both in the internal market and in access to strategic export markets. The export sector, as you well know, is fundamental for Spain; within the €66.5 billion that exports the agri-food sector, the livestock sector plays a fundamental role. We therefore have health priorities. For example, improving the biosecurity conditions of farms, to quote the most relevant; there are also many other environmental issues - emissions and waste, air, water and soil quality - as well as documentaries and regulatory compliance, such as the incorporation of self-controls. To this end, we adopted three decrees which I brought to the Council of Ministers: the first on the pig sector in February 2020, the second on the poultry sector in July 2021 and the third on the bovine sector in December 2022. There was no management standard in the cattle sector and it is very important. Why? Because these conditions allow us to support agriculture and professional and family livestock, for example by setting up a roof for the new facilities of 850 larger livestock units, i.e. on a dairy farm, 725 dairy cows with their calves and herds. This has therefore been a fundamental element that we have complemented in the CAP Strategic Plan, which entered into force on 1 January after its adoption by the European Commission, and in the decree you mentioned on sustainable soil nutrition. We have taken very much into account the differential characteristics of the cantabrian cornice, the orographic and agroclimatic conditions and the productive model, but we obviously have to consider that there are environmental conditions and objectives to which we cannot give up; for example, the reduction of excess nutrients to soils by 50% by 2030 and also compliance with the emission limits agreed in the so-called national emission ceilings directive for certain air pollutants. Therefore, we have to limit ammonia emissions, we have to properly manage manure and its application to the soil, as you mentioned a moment ago - in particular, in relation to purines, to reduce that polluting activity. That is not a question of restriction, but it can become a subject of support and, in fact, we are working on it. If we fertilize with manure and purines, applying them effectively and sustainably to the soil - obviously, properly treated - we will have a by-product with which we will be able to complete the circularity of our economy and, in a context like that which you have mentioned of dearth of the price of fertilizers, we will be able to incorporate another supplementary mechanism of support to the activity of our primary sector. We are strongly supporting him. Spain and the Netherlands are leading this in the European Union because we think it is extremely important, with projects such as RENURE, which I believe is an essential model. We are also doing this in a concrete way, for example, with the help of the Renove Plan for the renovation of machinery, since we have declared the purchase of machinery for the local application of purines a priority, contributing to the improvement of air quality and the effective valorization of manure. Also in the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan there is a section of 83 million that we have now supplemented with 20 million more, that is, 103 million, for the management of manure and purines, and we hope that all applications for aid will be covered; also in precision agriculture, with 79 million more that we will extend up to 135 million. There is another very important issue, to which your honor has not referred. The honourable Member referred to the presence of the Councillor in Cantabria, my good friend Guillermo Blanco, as an observer at the last European Council of Ministers, where we discussed something very important, the Industrial Emissions Directive. I must say that Spain's position is firm in this respect. We do not agree with the proposal put forward by the European Commission. We want the exclusion of extensive livestock farming and, of course, the discussion, according to the productive modalities, of the ceilings proposed for the reports and the environmental limitations, of the number of livestock heads. In the CAP Strategic Plan, to which I referred earlier, there are a number of direct aids, as you know, for farmers and the livestock sector. We have sought and designed an echo pasture regime for extensive grazing that is closely linked to the model that Cantabria and other autonomous communities of the cantabrian cornice raised in the discussion that we had between the ministry and autonomous communities. We have taken into account those wetlands of pastures for the improvement of biodiversity. We have increased the support by 17%, the so-called aid coupled with the whole livestock sector, particularly in milk cows by 30% and in sheep by 11%, and all this means benefits which I believe are very important. Then, as you are well aware, with regard to the extraordinary and urgent measures that we have adopted over the past year as a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, there are very concrete measures: 169 million for the dairy sector; 193 million for the livestock sectors, basically, but also for the citrus sector, amen to the other measures that, logically, for example, in the area of fuels and diesel, we have approved and which, of course, remain in force at this date. Therefore, we are strong advocates of extensive livestock farming, are the policies we have been developing. We believe that the environmental management of farms must be progressively and proportionately incorporated, and all this in support of a livestock farm that is social, productive and that supports that family dimension, which is undoubtedly absolutely fundamental, prepared for the challenges of the future, and we are working on that. In fact, here I would conclude my intervention in relation to the subject under consideration. But, since this is an inquiry and I do not want to fail to respond to the things that your honor has raised for me, I have no problem in answering the question that you pointed out to me in relation to prunings, which do not trace them. The traces have been covered by the conditionality of the CAP since 2006 or 2007, if I remember correctly the date, and what we are talking about is the prunes. In fact, a solution was finally included in the process of the common agricultural policy law in the Senate, which I found interesting, and which effectively excludes small and micro-farms in general cases and, subject to the regulation of the autonomous communities, in cases where there is a phytosanitary or fire risk. I think it is a clear answer to a request from the agricultural sector, which, fortunately, was a consensus in the Senate and which must now, logically, be implemented in a way that I believe is proportional and positive. And the resolution adopted by the Ministry of Ecological Transition in this regard, let us say that it represents a much broader and more flexible reading, which should allow our farmers to carry out their activity and, at the same time, not to have those restrictions that the radical elimination of the obligation contained in the Waste Law was raised at the time. I am prepared to give you, if you will, Your Honor, as well as the agricultural and cooperative organisations, all the indications that are necessary.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u150	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your benevolence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u152	Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u153	Thank you very much, Minister, for the answers. Indeed, what I was thinking would be very good if it were to be translated into a document to avoid different interpretations within the Government itself. Anyway, here's everything: I can give one of lime and one of sand. Yes, it is true that we agree quite with the ministry. As it represented most of the autonomous communities, almost all agreed with the advisor on industrial emissions and with some kind of exception. So, we agree on that. Furthermore, we all agree that food security is fundamental to a country. Let it not happen to us as with gas, oil or even cereals and everything that has come with the war in Ukraine: that we are getting so dependent that then we have no wheat and we have to bring it from Romania. On the subject of industrial emissions, as I know, there is also no clear regulation in the beef sector, as there is in other sectors; this is what I have been told. But the decree law you mentioned has a very important lack of aid for fertilizers, because they are forgetting about wet farming. In particular, in Cantabria, at least 25% of the fertilizers that are imported are directly to pay for the meadows, and these are excluded from the aid of the Decree-Law, something that has been said from the sector to the ministry, and the ministry has heard very little. As he has also heard very little about other issues where it does not seem to coincide with society, for example with the laws that will be passed tomorrow on ill-treatment and animal welfare, on which, in the end, there have not been meetings with the representatives of the autonomous communities, as they have been required to do, and where expenses are incorporated for the municipalities that will not be able to assume for some kind of demands. In short, there are many issues I do not have time to talk about, but, of course, with these two laws, there seems to be a persecution of the rural world. In Spain today the rural world is very concerned about this government. And I do not want to talk about the wolf, because we have the minister here and I suppose she is not very sensitive in that sense, but that is another issue that has also been done without the agreement of all those who have to apply it. When a rule is made against all or most of those affected, it has very little track, and that is what is happening with all these issues that I am commenting on. But, in general, as far as the questions I have asked you, I agree. With regard to pruning, it is clear that it refers rather to these small farms, as is the case in many cases. I would like you to clarify a little more which farms you would define with regard to the improvement of the techniques for the exploitation of cattle. And, moreover, we are waiting for the motion, in which we raise some questions with this House to see if we can have a good agreement with the Government, because the reality, Mr Planas, is that you may not be the worst government in this regard, but, in general, this government is very poorly seen in rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u154	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has the floor to conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Mazón, that depends on everyone's opinion. Of course, citizens judge when it is appropriate, i.e. in elections, and decide what they think about the general action of a government in one or another sector. I said this at first and I repeat it to you: I believe that there is tangible evidence in relation to the law of the food chain, agricultural insurance, the new common agricultural policy or the measures adopted in four packages throughout the year 2022 supporting the primary sector that this is a government committed to farmers, farmers, fishermen and the whole food chain. And in relation to the issues you raised, telegraphically, Spain is in a good position in terms of food security. Indeed, we have a country that not only produces the food and drink we need, but exports - it has done so in the last 12 months - EUR 66.5 billion. We are an agri-food power, the fourth in the European Union and the seventh in the world. With regard to the industrial emissions directive - you have not raised it, but I have raised it myself - the position is clear. We want extensive livestock farming out of the field of competence. We are against setting the minimum application limit on 150 livestock units and believe that it should be raised substantively. And, with regard to the issue of manure and purines, the problem is that they have to be treated and applied, that is to say, to be buried, and not to use techniques such as those used previously, and to be dispersed, because that is what, of course, causes these emissions, which we are fighting against - you will agree with that - and which, of course, constitute one of the environmental risks that we face in the future. And all this in the direction of primary production that has to be necessarily more sustainable. There is no sustainability if there is no profitability, and that is the key to incorporating young farmers, farmers and livestock, who are actually doing so under conditions that are often complicated, with the support of the European Union's national and also autonomous public aid, and to which we have to give a chance for the future. Obviously, the work of his grandparents and his parents was an honest job, but the world changes and we have to change, and also here the farmer, like other sectors, is changing very deeply. I believe that in that change what needs to be done is to help and support these transition processes, which is what we are doing right now from the Spanish Government. Indeed, the rural world has many problems, but it certainly also has very strong elements, and agri-food production is one of the fundamental elements. That this production is compatible with the preservation of the environment, the soil, the water, the air, the biodiversity, the landscape is absolutely fundamental. Today, all citizens are asking us for food that has not only quality, but also safety conditions, which occur in this sector, particularly in the livestock sector, which is subject to the highest standards, and, precisely because of this, they can be proud of the work they do. There are risks and difficulties, no doubt, but I believe that those risks and difficulties can only be solved if we do so together, if, in the face of problems that are not of Spain or of the European Union, but of global problems, we seek answers that necessarily also have to be global. All the issues that you have raised - and I thank you again - precisely in relation to the manure and prunes of livestock activity have to do with it, and they certainly have a resolution within the framework of that sustainability orientation, which I believe is the only one possible for the future. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u156	Thank you very much, Minister. - OF PARLIAMENTARY GROUP VOX, TO THE VICE-President THIRD GOVERNMENT AND MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE ON POLICIES TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY THE GOVERNMENT TO GUARANTEE THAT ALL SPAIN CAN ACCESS TO WATER IN EQUAL CONDITIONS IN ALL NATIONAL TERRITORY. [[File number 172/000264]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u157	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group into the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge, on the policies that the Government is going to push to ensure that all Spaniards have equal access to water throughout the national territory. For your defence, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u158	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, I'm not going to ride rodeos. Today I come to expose one of the pieces or essential elements of the plan Spain decides. [[Show a brochure entitled Spain decides]] It is a plan which VOX has put forward and which says something as simple as that in certain matters which are fundamental, essential for the Spaniards - be it economic policy, agricultural policy or food policy - you are acting clearly against the interests of the Spaniards and we ask you to ask them. [[Applauds]] You are sure of your position and cling to your ideas, talk about them and expose them with stubbornness and dogmatism. They are convinced that this is God's word and that, in view of his approaches, there is no discussion, there is no possible answer. On the contrary, we believe that the reasonable Spaniards, the normal Spaniards, the working Spaniards realize that their measures are totally contrary to their interests, and what we ask them to do is to consult them, to let Spain decide. If things are as you see them - and in your head this dogmatism reaches all the Spaniards -, this referendum, this consultation will give you the reason, but if, on the contrary, as we say, these matters of common sense are seen by the Spaniards as genuinely absurd, we will see that we were right and you will have the opportunity to take the course of those policies that are really ruining Spain. [[Applauds]] Today, in particular, I would like to ask you, Minister of Ecological Transition, to address the Spanish and ask them whether they agree with the policy you are carrying out on water. Why do you want to leave half of Spain without water? Why do you want to close the tap to the Valencian Community, Murcia, some area of Almería or La Mancha? Why do you want to cut them off? It is a question which, in my opinion, has very difficult to explain, beyond spurious interests, how to benefit Morocco's agriculture, which you are doing through subsidies, or perhaps through this plot of corruption in the European Parliament of socialist politicians bribed with Moroccan money. I do not know what the explanation is, but the reality is that your policy is harming a very important portion of Spain, a productive sector essential for Spain, not only because of the number of jobs, but also because it is the sector that feeds us, Minister. You, impassive in the adamán, want to cut the water, want to prevent it from watering in Murcia, Valencia or La Mancha, so we ask you to please consult the Spaniards, ask them if they agree with your zero water policy. Consult us, because the truth is that another policy would be possible, and, basically, that is the proposal we offer you to assume as your own. As you have already done on some occasion, renew your political action and we will again find a government in Spain that defends the interests of the Spaniards, not the interests of third parties. [[Applauds]] In Spain a lot of water is lost every year. The Ebro pours into the sea about 13,000 cubic metres a year and the Tagus, about 17,000 cubic metres. You tell me about the Albufeira Treaty. The Treaty of Albufeira, for those who listen to us, is a treaty between Spain and Portugal by those border rivers, which are the Duero and the Tagus, according to which Spain undertakes to send a certain flow to Portugal. Imagine, it wouldn't make sense to cut water to Portugal, obviously. Thus, according to this Treaty of Albufeira, Spain has to send 3000 cubic hectometers per year for the Duero and 2700 cubic hectometers per year for the Tagus. However, in the last ten years, Spain has exceeded this amount by around 16,000 cubic hectares per year on average. We found that we're wasting our water. As I tell you, the Ebro pours about 13,000 cubic hectometres a year. We find almost 30,000 cubic hectometers that are dumped into the sea for no reason. And here comes the only explanation you give us. What's your justification? The ecological flow rate. You have invented a concept according to which you have the obligation to throw the water that the Spaniards could use, because that is the truly ecological thing according to you. This concept of the ecological flow is the one that has motivated you to cut the Tajo-Segura transfer, which allowed watering to the Valencian Community, Murcia and La Mancha. In fact, the VOX Parliamentary Group has raised a question from the stand to those Socialist Members, to those Members of Podemos Manchegos, Murcianos and Alicantes: Do you really support a government that is cutting its voters' water? Who do you defend? It's really incomprehensible. As I say, this concept of ecological flow is taken up by you, Minister, from the 2000 Water Quality Framework Directive. By transposing it, they introduce this concept, when the directive in its translation into Spanish does not mention the word caudal not once; no longer ecological caudal, but the word caudal. It is not explained that you, based on a concept that does not appear in that directive, have decided to close the tap to Murcia or Alicante; I cannot find the explanation. You come and tell us about the quality of the water. Again, to be understood by those who listen to us, the framework directive does talk about water quality. It says that the waters of the Spanish rivers - although it refers to the whole of the Union - will have to have a certain level of quality, of health, and it is very understandable. But what this socialist government intends to do, instead of cleaning water - would be logical, right? - is to add clean water to compensate and mediate dirt and thus get water that, on average, is cleaner. [[Applauds]] So, instead of being efficient in the sanitation, purification, cleaning and treatment of urban waters, ultimately, they are the ones that are spilled - by the way, mainly to the Tagus, because it is the densest urban environments that pour into this river -; you, instead of doing your job, what you intend to do is to steal water from our farmers or our industry to mix it with that dirty water and that the resulting cocktail gives you the numbers of that purity of water. Madam Minister, it is a veritable waste, it is a mismanagement of Spain's natural and public resources, it is an anti-environmental attitude. You, who are Minister of Ecological Transition, should worry about cleaning up the dirt, not trying to cover it, which is what you are doing in the background. [[Applauds]] And, in addition, you should be concerned about the well-being of the Spaniards. I come back to the initial conclusion, and that is that you defend a position that is absolutely inexplicable, unless you are regulating in favour of Morocco or third-party food importers to Spain or in favour of third countries of the Union who intend to overcome the irrigation and primary sector of Spain or any other matter; if not, I do not find the explanation. If we manage the water from all of Spain, nationally, without spurious interests - call this false ecological flow, call it concrete regionalist interests - we would have a lot of benefits, which can basically be grouped into three blocks: first, irrigation, food sovereignty, food prices fall, feed prices fall, less inflation, less dependence on the outside; second, the energy issue, since water is one of the major energy-generating elements, of which, by the way, Spain has a competitive advantage vis-à-vis all the countries of the European environment, and let us not say from northern Africa, and finally, the ecological issue, which you are obsessed with, because it would also be good in managing water at national level. In Spain we use about 10,000 cubic hectares per year for irrigation, and this allows us to have about 3 million hectares for irrigation. With this management that we propose you, you could easily manage for the interests of the whole of Spain about 20,000 additional cubic hectometers. Making a rule of three very simple, we will get almost six million additional hectares in irrigation. If we do the simple calculation, in Murcia, with 60 000 hectares of irrigation, 180 000 people work; if you introduced six new million hectares of irrigation, you would get about 18 million jobs. It is clear that this rule of three is not so simple, but, for you to come up with an idea of what the order of magnitudes is, that would be the potential that Spain would have and that you are denying the Spaniards for no obvious reason, and all because of their encroachment and for not consulting them. Minister, it's simple. [[Shows the document entitled Spain decides]] Consult the Spaniards and listen to VOX, because, when you listen to us, you tend to be right. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u159	Thank you. I now give the floor on behalf of the Government to the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u160	Good morning, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that it does not cease to surprise some of the interventions that are heard from this rostrum. Today I understand that Mr Figaredo calls for keen interests to understand how ecosystems work, how nature works and its functional limits, which demonstrates his lack of knowledge and his lack of capacity to manage any public decision responsibly. What is more, I am deeply surprised that, being its soul mater the Jesuit university, it has not yet understood that water is not thrown into the sea, that ecosystems and coexistence and the use - by the way, coming from the same Genesis - of natural resources for the benefit of man have their limits, or that the encyclical of Pope Laudato did 'emphasize precisely in not squandering, in not depredating - as you seem to show in the defense you have made from this rostrum - the resources to the detriment not only of future generations, but also of the most vulnerable of the present generations. [[Applauds]] But I'm going to make a recommendation to you: Ask your pre-candidate, Mr. Tamames, what do you think of climate change, because they might take a surprise and look for another candidate. [[Applauds]] Instead of this sort of sorcery and witchcraft that you have done here, I will try to respond to the intervention with which you called your inquiry because, honestly, I am convinced that everyone, inside and outside this Chamber, has the utmost interest in preserving and facilitating access to something so fundamental, so basic for the well-being of people and the functioning of the economy, such as water. Water saves, water for everyone and water forever, but also knowing what water we have and that we have difficulty guaranteeing water simply by resorting to Manitu, Manitu, to see if it rains', which is what seems to emerge from his intervention. That is why I like the fact that in its inquiry it cites equal access to water because, in fact, water is considered to be a public domain by our legal system, the Constitution and the laws. Look, I think you can discuss a lot of things, but the basic rules are, first, to respect and understand how nature works; second, to respect and understand the rules of which we have been endowed, if it is not very difficult, I think we speak different languages. And when we speak of water for all, I speak of water for the neighbors of Alicante, today and tomorrow; water for the neighbors of the coastal populations of Entrepeñas and Buendía, which seems to have been forgotten; water for the small farmer of the peninsular southeast; water without contamination and with all guarantees of health for all uses; water to preserve our natural spaces without evading them, like Doñana, the Sea Minor or Daimiel; groundwater and surface water in good condition so as not to witness again, as has happened with its indifference and the connivance of the People's Party, the agony of a mass of water converted into green soup. Therefore, it is surprising that under this motto you then make a kind of claim that responds to an unequal, unjust, scientific proposal, contrary to the evolution of availability, indifferent to data, indifferent to flow or pollution and regressive, deeply regressive, from the point of view of small domestic and agricultural consumers. Because, truly, you live in a reality that does not exist. We cannot think that there will always be the same water availability when the observed data, contrasted data, show that this is no longer the case for a long time. In Spain, the average reduction in contributions since the 1980s is 12% less available water, and in basins such as Tagus or Guadiana this amounts to 22%. Models show that this decrease in available water can reach up to 40% in 2050. So, tell me how you will guarantee water for everyone, if it is not with processions and prayers to the Virgin, with that model that you propose. In our opinion, looking the other way makes no sense. On the contrary, we must really work to ensure that there is water for everyone, water forever and in good condition. Or do you think we should bring water to Alicante's neighbours by boat, as happened in Barcelona in 2008, when prolonged periods of drought occur? I say that it will be better to articulate new solutions, because what we are already living - and this summer has been a good example - are prolonged droughts and dramatic floods. Therefore, it is better for us, rather than taking out pamphlets - like the one you have taken us out here today - to work through dialogue, as we have been doing for the last three years about the new planning cycle with all the actors, and to find, anticipate different solutions based on science, not on the premises that you invent here from the rostrum. This means a sufficient reduction of losses, modernisation of infrastructures, reduction of demand, excellent management of the infrastructures we have, also obviously of the Tajo-Segura transfer, which nobody has said will be closed, except you; I do not know why you are committed to shutting it down. In order to meet the demand for water for all in quantity and quality, we must pay attention to various things. Let's start with the quality parameters. 25% of our urban agglomerations do not meet the parameters required by Community legislation. When we arrived at the Government, Spain had to pay coercive fines for failing to comply with the Water Framework Directive at a rate of EUR 11 million per semester, a figure which we have reduced to EUR 3 million thanks to an important investment plan in order to be able to recover, modernise the most dramatic purification situations. But I'm going to tell you one thing, get closer to Aranjuez, get closer to Toledo, because you don't need to be a hydraulic engineer to be worried about the quality, the poor state of purification of the waters of Madrid. Today we already have an agreement for the improvement of the purification of Madrid, but it has been this government that has had to take a step forward and anticipate the financing to the Canal de Isabel II ; a shame, a truth, a shame! [[applause]] We have changed the policy of the People's Party in this respect and we have done so because we believe not only that we must comply with the rules - which you see as not sharing - but that we must do so for our citizens, for responsibility towards the Spaniards, which you clearly do not share either; on the contrary, you laugh, you mock the Spaniards. The solutions are not made with banners or pamphlets, but with good management, with sense of responsibility and with the data in front, on the table. The pollution of urban agglomerations is not the only pressure, more than 20% of groundwater masses are in poor conservation by accumulation of nitrates and pesticides, and 44% of surface water is in poor condition. How do we guarantee water for everyone of sufficient quality if we do not address these issues and solve the starting conditions? To this is added an increasing presence of microplastics, medicines and other substances with potential serious effects on our health. These are the problems of water: quantity and quality. And to both we dedicate our effort and to both we want to offer answers, anticipating the worrying trends that are divined on the horizon. And this explains why all the work of the Government during these years has been, precisely, oriented in this direction. Or do you think that it is better to comply with scientific forecasts and put at risk and without alternatives to domestic and agricultural consumers? He is unsympathetic with the presentation of his inquiry. We think that no, that we are in time to plan and invest to solve this circumstance and, in fact, there will never have been so many resources available to invest in the hydraulic infrastructures we need. We need to work on different fronts, we also need to pay attention to the sustainable management of groundwater - which you have not mentioned - because it is not possible to extract water from illegal wells for thousands of hectares of irrigation without this having consequences. It's impossible that it doesn't have consequences. We know that the users who respect the rules in the Sea Minor in the environment of Doñana know that those who value quality, the environmental parameters of these two environments, but that to act against illegality is to protect the right of farmers who do comply with the law and guarantee the possibility of providing water for all; exactly the opposite of what you propose, exactly the same argument that leads us to think that tax fraudsters should be prosecuted or that any conduct or non-compliance with the rules that harm the general interest and the common goods should be prosecuted. There is another thing I would like to say loud and clear because you have repeated it a few times. Mr Moreno Bonilla also said that yesterday, by the way, surprisingly. The water is not thrown into the sea, I was going to say that it is perhaps first of all of the paraphernalia - which no longer exists -, but you can recycle it in the new education system. You don't throw yourself into the sea, you can repeat it with me many times. It is not thrown into the sea, it is the rivers; it is the rivers that need that water, which is a fundamental environmental good, facilitates river ecosystems, facilitates activity on their shores. By the way, I will tell you that we do have a problem of non-compliance with the flows we have committed to the rivers we share with Portugal, and that the updating of that Albufeira Convention is, by the way, with the utmost respect from the administrations and from the managers and users on both sides of the border. Second very important consideration: the rivers are not owned by any autonomous community, are the public domain of all and their management and responsible enjoyment is the responsibility of the Government. Third very important comment: there are no surplus or deficit basins, in all the basins demand always exceeds availability. Therefore, it is important to arbitrate in the planning cycle solutions for all. If we do not, we will find ourselves - as has already happened - with a mismanagement of the rules of the transfer, for which for eleven months, eleven long months, the transfer Tajo-Segura had to be stopped. In fact, the prudent management we have made of water resources has made it possible to guarantee volumes for supply over the period 20082022, far above - almost 50% above in favour of the basins of the southeast peninsula - what happened in the period 2014-2018. So, less wolves, caperucita, less Chinese tales, less lies, like the ones you are sowing over and over again, more responsibility from institutions, more investment, more management and more guarantees for citizens. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u161	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u162	Minister, you will give lessons to members of your party, who sit down and applaud as seals. [[Protests]] That you come here to say that it is first of all a puppet, when above you are lying to the Spaniards in the face, it is a veritable shamelessness As a bad school teacher who has no arguments to bear the dogmas that he throws at us and, without going further, you open your intervention quoting the Pope, you have quoted the Virgin on two occasions and Manitu in third place. [[applause]] Surrealist that you come here to talk about science and yet you have to go to various deities. Anyone would say that you are the true papisa of the climate, who comes to defend with dogma the truths that you are not able to justify. [[applause]] The Mar Menor - which you have mentioned twice - is grossed out, and it is grossed out because the municipalities of the PSOE and the PP do not clean the faecal waters that pour into the sea. The municipality of Toledo - ruled by the Socialist Party - has been sanctioned up to two times for pouring faecal waters without purifying the Tagus River. That is what destroys everyone's water, that is precisely what prevents that water from being used for human consumption or for irrigation. [[applause]] Therefore, what you have to do is focus on cleaning water; you have to focus on a purification plan; you have to focus on a national use plan. Because you say: water for everyone. Water for everyone, except you're a bat, because we just cut off the Tajo-Secure transvase, so you won't get a drop. Water for everyone, except you're Alicante, who won't get a drop either. Why? Because Toledo-ruled by socialists - is dedicated to throwing their countries and their poops at the Tagus River. That's right, Minister. So, if you want to come here and talk about truths, you talk about truths, but honestly, not with those dogmatic arguments that you keep repeating like a cockatoo. [[Rumors]] Let's go back to the question and the practical example so that all the Spaniards understand us, let's put things in place. You say the water doesn't pour into the sea. He repeated: "Don't pull off. I think he's using the typical captivating argument that it's not that he throws himself but that he brings himself to the sea. Well, I don't know what reality will look like, but the truth is, that water isn't taking advantage of. And without going any further, the Rules dam, in Granada, for disputes between the hydrographic confederations of one community and another, simply releases the water in it stored and pours it out, throws it out, brings - call it whatever you want - to the sea. That water is not taken advantage of The utility for the Spaniards of that infrastructure, which is designed to store water, repeat, store... [[applause]] The very concept of storage comes very far away - and since you quote parveros, the tale of Cigarette and Ant -, consists in storing when there is much, when there is too much, for when there is less use. The Rules dam no longer serves as storage, but it is the same with Spain's water infrastructure. You're talking about building infrastructure. Well, in your PNIEB, your five-year five-year plan, the investment in water storage infrastructure is zero, I insist, zero. You have not planned to invest in water storage or a single euro. Why don't you guys build new water pipes? Why don't you allow the coastal neighbours - let's think of the river Ebro, whose neighbours suffer floods and laughter every year - to clean up the coastal lines? Why don't you allow you to build new infrastructures to regulate these floods of water that can't be controlled today? Why don't you allow it? Because in this Tower of Babel of hydrographic confederations that you have built it is impossible for one to understand one another. That is really the problem, that intestinal struggle that you promote and in which you try to obtain electoral benefits, always thinking about the short term, always thinking about your seat and your chair, and never thinking about the interests of the Spanish Because you come and tell us that: transfer, no; purifiers, no, but desalinations, yes. [[applause]] Desalinators, who cracks in the desalinators? The Socialist Party of Ximo Puig, which put its boots and filled its pockets in a plot of corruption that affects a very high percentage of all the desalinators that were installed on the Spanish Levantine coast. [[applause]] Maybe that's his interest. Is it possible that this is the reason why you are closing the faucet to the bats, the Alicantes and the mangroves, because your goal is to put down desalinators and then...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u163	Your Honor, you must finish, please, your time is over.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u164	...how do you get used to us? In short: pamphlets, no. Ask the Spaniards, who are the ones who can decide about the fate of their water. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u165	To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the third Vice-President and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u166	Mr Figaredo, you can go to scientific documentation, to science books of the nature of basic education or to the Pope's Encyclical. What is very difficult is that it serves as an argument for the pamphlet that you have shown here from this rostrum; it is very difficult. I really hope for a bad future for Spain if we go from pamphlet to pamphlet of the VOX party. [[A honourable Member: What a level!]] What a level!, indeed, that is what has surprised me, the level of a gentleman who is supposed to be educated, licensed and expert in standards, expert in laws and back with the example. [[applause]] Do you think we should run the risk of Alicante running out of water and taking it by boat? Or is it better to reinforce, to ensure that there is water in scenarios of dramatic reduction in the availability of rain water? With warehouse and no warehouse, because if it doesn't rain even the warehouses of Entrepeñas and Buendía are enough, as Mrs. Tejerina very well knows. Next consideration that seems important to me: this government, which works as a responsible ant all the time, has facilitated a much larger volume of transvasted water in the four years in which we have had the opportunity to manage the Tajo Segura transfer than the one that was made available in the four years immediately before, and has never said that the transfer will be closed. If you have warned - because you have to look at the reality at the front and not apply the ostrich policy - that the tendency to diminish the resource is enormously worrying, and that is why you have to invest more. Moreover, we must anticipate, as happened to us this past year 2022. In March, thanks to the adoption of drought plans and the introduction of additional management measures, we anticipate a series of solutions that have allowed Seville and Guadalquivir not to have suffered water cuts, which have allowed the management of Guadiana and Segura to survive one of the warmest, driest summers that has suffered from the Iberian peninsula in a long time. I believe that these are the things that matter and, therefore, because we do not want to find ourselves again in similar situations, we have adopted a series of important forecasts, both in terms of sanitation, purification, efficiency and water saving, with a forecast of a volume of resources earmarked for this purpose of more than EUR 6 billion over the next four years,20232027; forecasts for improvements in pipelines, supply and infrastructure so that there is no water loss and to boost efficiency in the final use of water both high and low. Thanks to the digitalised water leak and the correction and modernisation of supply infrastructures, we plan to devote more than EUR 5 billion to improving irrigation infrastructures, more than EUR 18 billion to flood risk management, but also a very important volume to desalination and reuse of water, as well as to the interconnection of the various infrastructures, precisely to ensure that this resource is available to all. In fact, in 2008 there were 40 cubic hectares of desalinated water production in Torrevieja, but in 2022 there were 80 and in 2026 there will be 120; thus, in each of the desalinators that exist in the southeast basins, 37 additional cubic hectares for reuse, and being fully aware that, in view of the availability of water resources for farmers, not only quantity and quality but price matter. We have made a very important commitment, a commitment that already has the first steps both in the change of rules and in the budget availability and in the management of contracts that allow this to happen. It is a remarkable investment so that the energy consumed in the desalination plants, in the pumping of the connection infrastructures and in the purification and reuse plants can be connected to renewable energy - investment in more photovoltaics - and have energy efficiency programs. Until this is fully operational, we have made a double commitment to the regents and to the beneficiaries of the transfer. Firstly, as regards the ecological flow of the Tagus, on which there were five convictions against the Government of Spain, it has not been applied linearly since the first day. There are three years of lack that will allow the effects of these investments to produce a greater supply of water and therefore ensure that this water for all does not depend, as I said before, on whether it does not rain in Entrepeñas and Buendia. Meanwhile, we have also reached an agreement to offer an average price of 34 euros per cubic hectometer of desalinated water, an agreement that we are finalizing and that will be effective before the end of the month. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u167	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, to address the shortcomings in the service provided to citizens by the administration of social security. [[File number 172/000265]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u168	Urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress to address the shortcomings in the service provided to citizens by the Social Security Administration. For your defence, Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u169	Thank you, President. Minister, Social Security has collapsed. Your offices are blocked. It is more difficult to get an appointment than the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, is to tell a truth. Recalling Mariano José de Larra and the Decemononic Administration, Social Security is telling workers who are asking for the conditions to be able to retire to do the favor of retiring tomorrow, next month or you will know when'. I'm not saying it, I'm just reading it. They are the subtitles of an article called The collapse of Social Security, which signs a classic of the subject in the salmon newspaper of the most national edition this last Monday. We have all been able to see on the national television stations, on the highest audience, as a citizen of Zaragoza, who wanted and had the right to retire, ended up calling the police to ask for help and get an appointment with Social Security after three months trying on the phone, online and showing up at the offices, in his CAISS. I am giving two examples of the alarm over the malfunctioning of the offices of the ministry that you head, but the problems come from afar. You've been a minister for over three years. I've known him a lot longer. He always seemed to me to be a responsible person in his previous duties, but now it seems that he has imbued himself with the irresponsibility of this Government in virtually all areas, in all, and I do not want to talk about the unfortunate classic of the last few weeks, the law of yes is, as the best of examples. Minister, do a simple exercise: take your mobile, enter the browser, put'social security malfunction' and press news. There are them along and wide throughout Spain and from quite behind. There is even one in which you blame the situation on the previous government, but in three years you have been unable to do anything? What have the previous socialist ministers done in this field? Were you referring to your predecessor, Magdalena Valerio, now awarded with the Presidency of the Council of State? As I said, we found information from 2020, 2021 and 2022, and look at how we started 2023: there is no month in which news about the very poor service provided by the social security offices, for which you are responsible, is not published in the press. I'll give you some examples. I have them here, you know them for sure: Castellón, December 2022, jams and delays in Social Security; Salamanca, December 2022, endless waiting to be attended to in Social Security; Álava, July 2022, mission impossible to get appointment in Social Security; Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, August 2022, months waiting to collect the pension and impossible to talk to the offices of Social Security; also in Las Palmas, January 2022, days and days trying to get appointment in an office and the only answer is: sorry, there is no availability in the next few days for the requested service; Zaragoza, January 2023 - the news to what he referred earlier - a neighbor of this city called the police after three months trying to get a previous appointment; or the closure without further explanations of offices, such as that of Betanzos, sending to the neighbors, with a paper in the glass, to La Coruña to carry out his procedures, and, to conclude, yesterday we knew that, according to the information of the Portal de Transplement has been the two years for retirement. [[shows a document]] [[a Member of Parliament: What a barbarity!]] When we control the Government, in support of citizens, we are often called anything: irresponsible, alarmist, undocumented and anti-patriots. I do not know how he will focus his answer, but I want to make it clear that it is not a question of ours or of political opportunism, but that in an Administration that has always enjoyed the preaching of the citizens, things are getting worse and worse with regard to their attention to the Spaniards. And we are not just saying this, neither are the journalists or televisions who have scandalous headlines, but it is also reproached by the Ombudsman, who on 4 January insisted on the need to overcome the perceived shortcomings in the services of care for citizens, a situation which is far removed from the necessary provision of an effective and quality public service, incompatible with the right of good administration, stressing that this is an objective and direct breach of the obligation set out in article 103.1 of the Constitution. The Ombudsman urges them to resolve delays in the granting of appointments in the various social security offices and denounces the lack of availability of face-to-face appointments. Minister, as you know, this report is preceded by a first communication to the Secretary of State, in August 2022, due to the incessant number of complaints received related to citizens' difficulties in obtaining a prior appointment in any province of the national territory; a previous appointment that allows them to receive direct attention in the services of care and information to the public alternative to the telematic communication of Social Security, noting also that telematic communication also has an effectiveness that leaves much to be desired. Last September, the Secretary of State announced the creation of 1615 jobs to strengthen citizen care, which would be occupied in the first instance by interim officials. Temporaries, Minister? By the way, neither in 2022 nor in 2023, according to the general budgets of the State, the Social Security Administration is a priority sector for the purposes of the public offer of employment. However, the Ombudsman considers that these measures are insufficient to receive effective and efficient care in order to directly manage citizens' needs, especially those of the group affected by the digital divide and in a vulnerable situation for which face-to-face care is a preferred need. This is evident in citizens' complaints, when they point out that they are forced to make multiple phone calls in different hours and days in their desire to obtain a prior appointment, as well as in successive Internet procedures, mostly without positive results, and also complain that the situation affects the freeness of the administrative procedure, as many are engaged in the hiring of advisory services in order to be able to successfully carry out their administrative procedures. Who do they think they work for, Minister? Who's paying them their wages? All Spaniards, Mr Escrivá. It's because of them, but it doesn't seem like it. [[Applauds]] The bad thing is that you know it, or you should know it much better than other of your colleagues who don't have the slightest experience in the public thing, or in the private thing to be exact, but it seems you've forgotten it. In these days, the Law on Customer Care Services is being processed in Congress, which imposes very demanding obligations for customer care services in the private sector, such as responding to 95% of consultations, complaints, complaints and incidents in less than three minutes, and reducing the time or resolution of complaints to a maximum of fifteen days. Why don't you apply this to the administration? Why do they leave it outside the scope of this law? [[Applauds]] We would like to know your opinion on this, because the citizen, the evil called administrator - I do not like this denomination because of the connotations it has - is the true customer of public institutions. They are the ones who pay, the ones who have rights and who must be cared for. This government, of which you are a part, is a specialist in imposing obligations on others, but, for itself, it is broad Castile, as the popular saying goes. The most notable example is temporary employment, to which I referred earlier, which falls radically in the private sector, even if only by changing its name and conditions, but clearly rises in the public sector, to which prohibitions do not apply, according to the latest data from SEPE. Mr Minister, we are not bringing you here today an administrative problem, but a real citizen problem which you, so concerned with posture, should be aware of. This is not a pin in the flap; this is a real responsibility. [[Applauds]] Sustainable Development Goal 16, one of those that lists in their reports of any kind, aims to promote just, peaceful and inclusive societies - does it ring a bell? - and it aims to create and promote effective institutions. Do you think he's doing it? Finally, I cannot finish this first intervention without referring to two specific issues that have much to do with the quality of the services that citizens are providing. The first refers to the question my colleague Jaime de Olano asked you earlier. Does it seem to you to be an effective and efficient administration that charges up to 220 euros more to almost 8000 autonomous? Well, you do, because that's what my partner has been told, and then we'll talk about 2012. Have they put in place mechanisms for their prompt return or for the rejection of receipts not to have undesirable consequences for those affected? There's no situation, minister, so they're paying them these extra amounts. Eight thousand still seem a lot to me. The second is the status of the processing of the minimum living income benefit. In July 2022, the AIReF confirmed that four hundred thousand households out of the seven hundred thousand who could receive this benefit elude it, despite being entitled to it, among other reasons, for discouragement before the bureaucracy or waiting times. Is this what you mean by Efficient Management? Remember your answer: Start the IMV bus, to carry out an advertising campaign and make it known. I'm sorry to tell you, but you qualify yourself. More recently, last month, we also knew, in this case by the press, that poor management was leading to the denial of eight out of ten files, and that more than 100,000 are stuck in the offices, covering, in turn, the management of other aids and benefits, according to their own officials. It is denounced by civil servants and trade unions, minister. In October of last year, UGT, Workers' Commissions and CSIF issued a joint communiqué, qualifying the management of the ministry as failure, in addition to other qualifications in which I will not affect because it is strong enough. But yesterday we learned that they seem to have found their philosophical stone: to reduce to 15 minutes, or rather to ten, the time of attention to citizens in their face-to-face appointments. Is that all you can offer us?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u170	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u171	It's over. For all these issues, we present this urgent inquiry before which we hope you will hold us to account. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u172	Next, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u173	Thank you, President. Your Honor, in March 2020 it was when the wretched pandemic broke out. There are two institutions in Spain that I believe must be put on a pedestal for what they have provided: one, clearly, is the health services of the autonomous communities and their very clear contribution to all the health effects of the pandemic, and the other institution that must be put on a pedestal is Social Security. Social Security in an extraordinarily complicated situation - and I will now go into details - from the point of view of its human resources, maintained the welfare state and protected the fabric of millions of workers and hundreds of thousands of businesses. [[Applauds]] Social Security - which had lost between 2012 and 2018 between a fifth and a quarter of its workforce and which was 25 % fewer and an average age of 57 - at that time protected three and a half million workers with ERTE, protected one and a half million self-employed persons with extraordinary benefits and created and implemented the minimum living income, after years and years of insistence by the European authorities on the Government of the People's Party how it did not create a minimum income in Spain and left it in the hands of the autonomous communities. [[Applauds]] That was done by Social Security with that 25% less officials who left us in 2018. Therefore, if there is an institution to be put on a pedestal when it is discussed, it is Social Security, because it has made an extraordinary effort for our welfare state to expand and do so in a most complicated situation. That is the first thing to be said when we talk about social security because it is about justice and, above all, it is about justice for its officials, so self-sacrificing, that for years and years they saw how their places were reduced and not covered. Between 2012 and 2018 1500 places were created; from 2019 until now, We have created 5000 more, this year 2000 more, to which we must add 2000 additional interims. I mean, it's ten times more squares created a year. Of course, the starting problem is that the hole was huge. Let's talk about minimum living income. For decades and decades - this was recommended by the European Commission - minimum incomes were the responsibility of the autonomous communities. They had the opportunity to extend to the various autonomous communities what had to be done later, after much insistence from the European authorities. After twenty-five years, all the minimum incomes of the autonomous communities of the common system as a whole were scarcely 200 000 families. In two years, since Social Security assumed it, it has increased to 550,000 families, more than twice as much as the autonomous communities have done in twenty years. These are the references that need to be made, and that was done by Social Security with these so-dimmed officials. These are the numbers. I'm going to give you the Madrid numbers, since you're a Member of Parliament for Madrid. In Madrid, in 2020, when the minimum living income was raised, there were about 20,000 families protected by Madrid income; in just two years, at the moment, Social Security reaches double, 40,000 families. If we want to be rigorous, we have to take references. And if we want to be rigorous about how social security works, we have to say that the fundamental thing about social security is the provision of disability, widowhood and, above all, retirement benefits. In other words, the main principle of social security is income continuity. On average, in all places - there may be some exception, I look at the statistics continuously - there is continuity of income. What does income continuity mean? That when a person retires, he knows that the next month he has his pension and that there is not a period in which he is not receiving income. Let's get a reference, Mrs. Rodriguez. We have it very easily because contributory pensions are paid by Social Security, but non-contributory pensions are paid by the Autonomous Communities. What's the middle period? If you have the bad luck of not having a contributory pension and of having a non-contributory pension, what happens to you? Do you have income continuity? Do you know that? Do you have income continuity? If you are lucky enough to have a non-contributory disability pension, how long do you have to wait? How long on average do you expect? How much? Six months. The waiting time for non-contributory pensions of the autonomous communities is six months on average compared to those of Spain. There are some who do it better and others who do it worse. In his community, that of Madrid, it is six months - six months -. If a person is entitled to a non-contributory pension, he has to wait six months for it to be transferred to the Community of Madrid. This is a reference to whether social security works well or not, and not with anecdotes taken from newspapers here and there. This is the legal way to have rigour: six months, non-contributory pensions; income continuity, Social Security. And he does it with 25% less officials than he had. In addition, it has to make the minimum living income and it has had to develop all the new benefits to sustain the productive tissue during the pandemic, which has been so important for us now to have the levels of employment we have in Spain and with the support of all economic sectors. This does not mean that there are no management problems, of course there are. It gives me the feeling that you have not read the Ombudsman's reports. I've read them, obviously, but, not only have I read them. Since the pandemic ended and we were able to travel, I have personally visited 26 provincial addresses of Social Security. In each of those visits, which have not been protocol, I met with the steering committee and the Social Security employees in two meetings, and I have been touching with them where they had problems and how management problems progressed. The majority, in virtually all places, the first thing they have told me is: the Prime Minister we see in a provisional direction, and even more so at a working meeting. I could therefore give you a lot of details of what is being done, what we have told the Ombudsman. What happens is that this takes time, but, of course, the starting situation is what it is. If the Ombudsman's report is read correctly a few months later, he acknowledges what is progressing, even if there are issues that will take longer to do so. As for human resources, obviously, if you have 25% less - you know perfectly well how the opposition works in the Administration and how long it takes, two or three years on average -, if you leave with a hole like the one we had, all these places that we have created will be seeing over time. In addition, we are reducing the times in which oppositions are generated. For seven years, the People's Party practically did not convene oppositions or were minimum places, In those 1500 places in seven years the need to reduce the time of incorporation was not felt, but we are doing so. We can reduce up to 30% and we are already doing so with the first oppositions. We're going to do it, we're going to reduce execution times. Then, we have a problem with the remuneration of social security officials, which is a continuing claim to the Ministry of Finance. These social security officials, those officials who have maintained the welfare state and the productive fabric throughout the pandemic, have on average far lower salaries than those of the officials of the autonomous communities, and I will not tell you about the officials of the Ministry of Finance, especially those of the tax inspectors and State officials. That is the problem we have in some autonomous communities. In addition, Social Security is the State institution that is present in all autonomous communities. Your pay system needs to be improved if we are to be competitive with other officials, and we are not. We're not, and no one's fixed it for a long time. We're trying to fix it, but the reality is that Social Security collects EUR 170 billion in social contributions, which is almost as much as the Tax Agency, earning half of its officials; they earn half, and that's why they don't stop working. They have managed to increase social security collection by 17% in two years, with low wages and 20% less employment. We're trying to get better. There are aspects, in what is the Social Security Treasury, where progress is being made in a very decisive way because digitization is much easier and there are fewer limits, and the pilots are doing very well. You were talking about autonomous people. It is obvious that these 8,000 new self-employed people are going to see the problem they had in February corrected, because Social Security is very fast recognizing mistakes and redoing the work. There are 8000 new self-employed people who were entitled to a new super-reduced fee of 80 euros and to whom the normal was applied due to a computer and administrative error, like many of those in the Administration. You can make a bomb out of that, but that's gonna be corrected in days, like Social Security always does. With regard to the self-employed and the digital import application, 50 % of the self-employed, one in two, use the Imported application for discharge and discharge, which reduces the administrative costs of the managers a barbarity. There are limits in the INSS, of course there are limits, and that's why we're testing pilots. For example, we already have five provinces with video calls, and let's see how they work, let's see if older people get in through the video call or not before extending it, because it would be an advantage for them not to have to move if it's comfortable for them. We're doing telephone pilots and all kinds of activities. We are specialising in social security work and there are already six or seven different initiatives recognised by the Ombudsman. All of them I've been discussing in those twenty-five or twenty-six meetings I've had with the provincial directorates. Of course we're moving forward, but the starting point was so deteriorated, so surprisingly deteriorated, it's going to take a little time. That said, despite this deterioration, if anyone has created a fundamental contribution from the General Administration of the State to the maintenance of the welfare state and to the maintenance of the productive fabric of this country, it has been Social Security, with all the new benefits that it has had to develop due to this weakness of human resources. The first thing to do when talking about Social Security is to recognize that, and then we're going to be constructive in the solutions, and I'm already prepared to discuss all of them. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u174	Thank you. Mrs Rodríguez Herrer has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u175	What a disappointment, Minister! I've told you before that I thought you were responsible for your previous duties; now I'm going to tell you that I've always said you were smart, but going up here to pose your answer to an urgent inquiry with sophisticated arguments, it's worth it, it's worth it, and you know what that is. Let's see, if it's our fault, because even if it's been tens of years, we have it, because we already know it's a mantra that they use and sometimes slip, as you did this morning in the reply to my partner, talking about that the job loss of January 2012 was ours. No, it was yours because there was still no People's Party government, that is, we're going to see how things were going, how they were left and how they evolved, the first question. Second question. Officials, I'd miss more. I didn't mess with the Social Security Administration in its human capital because they've done enough. We have all recognized the hard work they had to do with the pandemic and the ERTEs. How we won't recognize it, of course. But the officials at the moment are saying the same thing I am saying, and today they are going out on the street: yours and those of Mrs Díaz, that SEPE is also taking part in yours. I know they don't get away, but the problem is that in the end they're brother cousins and they used to be together. This debate, Minister, is not about benefits, but about functioning. I have not talked about whether the communities gave the minimum living income or not, I am saying that the Spaniards who pay their taxes, when they go to their administration, in this case, that of Social Security, do not find it. I would do a contest here - which I don't do because you're not going to talk about - which one of you doesn't know a friend, a relative or a relative who hasn't had a problem with these? Everyone. They've all had it because this is absolutely extended. Third question. Madrid, another mantra. If Madrid doesn't come out in a debate of yours, it's not worth it. Well, look, in Madrid things are going pretty well, and to the great honor of being Madrid. Sophisticated arguments. This is not about pay, minister, this is about a government-wide responsibility that has to solve this problem. What should be included in the Treasury? Are you going to tell me? Well, you'll have to deal with personnel costs. You will have to convince within the government - if you make any case - of the dramatic problem you have, which is a problem that reaches all Spaniards, because sooner or later, as I say, or we or our family members have to go through their offices. Do you know the desperation that you assume to require a prior appointment because, if not, you don't enter through the door and that you get into the computer and sometimes you have to get it at 6 in the morning and reject it with what you say the newspapers say, but that's true, that when we buy a suit they say 'we don't have your size, but we'll let you know when we have it and it's available', but you don't even say 'when I have the appointment available, I give it to you'? They just don't give it to you, or I'll come in at 6 in the morning or I'll come in at 12 in the evening or I don't know how to fix it, and that's their responsibility. It is not worth making very nice benefits that little success will have, when you have to take a bus out on the street. Workers' Commissions is out there - I was going to say a barbarity, they're going to forgive me - laughing at the measure, because that's not a solution. When you have to sell a benefit it is because the benefit is not solving a problem that there is, because otherwise, you wouldn't have to sell it. In the end, what do we find? Like I said, you think you can make circles like the last one, saying you don't care for people who go, you get the non-date - well, the date, because you're supposed to - and you don't care for them for more than fifteen minutes, and you better if you care for ten? Do you know what you missed saying? If you take care of them in ten days, I'm gonna pay you a productivity paycheck. That's what this is about, we're going to Social Security and we're facing a kind of barrier that we can't go on with. It's over. I believe, Minister - I do not know if he will now - that he has missed an opportunity in this House, and it is to have told us something that gives us a guarantee that these services and their customer service will be fixed. But the truth, after what he has told us and how he has built his intervention, has given us little hope. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u176	Thank you. To conclude the debate, the Minister for Inclusion, Social Security and Migration has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u177	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Rodríguez, why is it so important to talk about social security benefits and how you lend them? Because if all this exaggerated, anecdotal, vision of the collapse of Social Security was true, how is it possible that Social Security would continue to give all benefits in time, far above any public administration, and that it would also be giving many more benefits than before with many fewer officials? How is that possible? How is it possible to maintain income continuity? Minimum vital income: 550,000 families who have received the minimum vital income. I don't know if they seem to you many or few, but it's twice as much of the income that autonomous communities gave when they were responsible for decades. And not only is it double, but we've sent - you can tell the story you want - a hundred thousand SMS messages to families we thought might need the minimum living income and they hadn't asked us. We've done a survey, to which we've been answered. From there we have decided, on the basis of that survey, that there are people who are telling us that they are struggling to go to social security offices, they are extraordinarily vulnerable people to whom it is very difficult to interact with the Administration. Our minimum income advisor, the Nobel Prize-winning Banerjee, has asked us: please approach the places where these people live, where food is distributed, where they have social eateries, where they are given clothes. There's the bus going, and not only is the bus going, there are several NGOs going on several pilot projects, because we've realized that there's the fault, and we've done it after doing surveys and using the best possible analysis techniques. That's the important thing. All services in the world targeting the most vulnerable have a very important coverage quality problem, which is called non-take up. We are in a relatively low part for the short time we have been doing, but we are doing completely new things in that sense, because our goal is to improve the quality of coverage far beyond expected, of course yes. We are not only doing these activities that I have said. For example, for the first time in Spain social services of municipalities or non-governmental organizations, such as the Red Cross or Caritas, can certify particular situations of vulnerability, and thus we are increasing the coverage of minimum living income. The minimum living income has extraordinary results, and we are being told in all parts of Europe, where we discussed it, for having done in two and a half years what we have done. The problem is that we came from scratch, because nobody did anything at state level for years and years. [[Applauds]] That's the problem. The problem is that the vulnerable have not been concerned so far, that is the problem, and it is doing much better than any other public administration with very limited resources. Of course the issue is important. We have created since we are 5000 new places, 1500 in the previous period, plus another thousand and peak this year, plus another two thousand and peak interims. The problem is getting those places filled. That is why packages and remuneration are important, and they are particularly important in those autonomous communities where it is more difficult for officials to enter us by the standard of living or because there are other administrations that have higher salaries. It's very relevant in the diagnosis. If we want to get into the details, we have to get into the pay systems, and we are doing it systematically, because we do not cover enough places. We can continue to expand the number of oppositions, but if they don't come to the oppositions... We are taking initiatives in different areas. Then we continue to work in new areas, such as specialization or work sharing. We have managed to improve the situation in many autonomous communities, because there are now communities with many more officials available, especially in emptied Spain, which are resolving cases in areas such as Madrid, Catalonia or the islands. All this has never been done and we are improving the operating processes. It takes time, they're pilots, but I found a situation in which management initiatives, none; from 2012 to 2019, none. Everything that has been put into place has been based on an extremely deteriorated situation. This is part of the diagnosis. You will see, when we talk in a few years, how all these initiatives have yielded much more, but it will take a little time. In the meantime, there is no citizen who has an emergency in Social Security who is not taken care of immediately. All officials are instructed by all provincial directors to take immediate care of them in any urgent situation, and I have been able to verify this during all my visits. If it's not urgent, it's something else, but if the situation is peremptory, of course it's being dealt with, and we've been very analyzed and tested. Please, Social Security is an institution that has a...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u178	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u179	...coupling of directors at the provincial level that works reasonably well. It does not seem fair to me to use this data politically to denigrate an institution as important in our country as Social Security. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u181	We continue with the motion of urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to explain the events on the Melilla border last June 24th as a result of the avalanche produced by hundreds of people trying to enter Melilla, and the press reports on the number of dead and injured who claim a figure higher than the data offered by the minister. Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor for the initiative and for the defence of the motion and the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We again bring to debate a motion on the Melilla fence and the incidents that took place in it, on this occasion with painful results, on 24 June, in which twenty-three citizens were killed, seventy-seven injured and an indefinite number of disappeared. The previous inquiry - because we have repeatedly brought it - took place in March as a result of a previous jump on 2 and 3 March, in which 800 immigrants entered Melilla and ten civilian guards were injured. In June, the number of civilian guards injured was fifty-five, out of a hundred who became present at the time of the greatest presence of civilian guards at the point of access. In both appeals the result was the same: none, only disqualifications to the opposition, specifically to the People's Party, which was responsible for blaming, no more or less, than the State security forces and bodies for the outcome of the incident. In both cases, the questioner, of course, was the minister and not the state security forces and bodies. Once again, the People's Parliamentary Group expresses its utmost appreciation to the State security forces and bodies that provide their services at the borders of Ceuta and Melilla while preserving their security. The efforts made and the risks assumed by the individuals serving in these forces during these incidents will never be sufficiently grateful or valued by all of us. [[Applauds]] But what can be expected of a Government where responsibilities are never assumed? Neither by the massive reduction in convictions of sexual aggressors, which is now said to be undesirable effects, when the promoters of the initiative publicly reject punitiveism, i.e. that a policy based on penalties is a policy penalty or a policy of penalty, to say Mrs Rosell; nor by the design of trains that do not fit through the tunnels; nor by lying to the citizens about the circumstances surrounding an episode as serious as that recorded in the Melilla fence on 24 June. The culprits are always the others: either the Machist judges or the technicians of the Ministry of Transport or the civil guards, who in number of hundred are responsible for facing an avalanche of thousands of assailants and, moreover, they are not even given instructions on what to do in the case of massive overflow. When they ask for instructions, as the head of the Command of the Civil Guard of Melilla has done, he ceases and something else. In the first inquiry, on 9 March, the minister sent out that the Melilla fence in three months would be finished. On June 24, three and a half months later, it was not finished, which also did not happen until November. He also stated that the smart border, which should serve for the effective control of cross-border visitors by State security forces and bodies in Melilla, would be completed by the end of 2022. At the beginning of this year they have already said that it will be completed, if God wills, by the end of 2023. In summary, unfulfilled promises and growing challenges for State security forces and bodies, which are being pursued without the necessary human and material resources. In the second question, last December, more falsehoods. The minister came to say in parliamentary office that at the time of the assault there were no less than 120 civilian guards present, as if 120 were many to face thousands of assailants. At the time of the increased presence of civilian guards there were no more than one hundred, there were no more than one hundred available at that time, ladies and gentlemen. We said it in March, we said it throughout the whole legislature and we say it again now, the human resources and anti-disturbing materials present in the cities of Ceuta and Melilla are insufficient. And what about the so-bred and carried video images of the Ministry of the Interior. They show that the presence of State security forces at the time of the assaults was insufficient and the resources available to them were scarce. When the avalanche arrived at the border control point of the Chinese Quarter, inside the Spanish border point there were five civilian guards, who after making a little resistance - five of whom had no other alternative - left the installation, which was left in the hands of the Moroccan assailants and security forces. The Spanish facility was occupied by Moroccan assailants, gendarmes, soldiers and security forces. From that moment on, and without visibility of what was happening, how is it possible for the President of the Government to congratulate himself on the wonderful outcome and effective management of the assault by the Moroccan forces? How is it possible that the Minister of the Interior assured that there had been no deaths in Spanish territory, if there was no visibility and the checkpoint of the Chinese Quarter was not under the control of the Spanish security forces? For it is not possible to assure, but he assured that there has been no death in Spanish territory. I would like to point out at this point that the civil guards are people like all of us, who face their duties in situations and conditions of extreme risk, and are governed by moral codes that are consistent with those of the Spanish society they serve, and one of them is the Charter of the Civil Guard, which in its article 6, in its first chapter, says that the civil guard will always try to be a happy prognosis for the afflicted. [[Applauds]] In March I told the minister that the citizens of Ceuta and Melilla saw with resignation the management of the Ceuta and Melilla fences by the security forces and by the authorities, and that they did not understand how it was not possible for our authorities to predict and avoid the assaults and scandals that occur in both fences. After the High Level Meeting on 1 and 2 February, the citizens of Ceuta and Melilla, apart from with resignation, see it with concern and frustration: seventy-four points signed between the two Governments in which neither Ceuta nor Melilla nor, of course, Melilla's commercial customs, which has been open since the 19th century, but now it turns out that it is unilaterally closed by Morocco, and there is no reference; it is closed since 31 July 2018 and is not cited. The images of the climb of the Melilla fence on 24 June show that we do not have sufficient resources available, and that is not the responsibility of the state security forces and bodies, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister of the Interior. When will the minister assume the responsibility of equipping our security forces adequately to carry out their duties in the dignified and decent manner for which they are formed so that they can be, as they wish, a happy prognosis for the afflicted? If when the resources are requested, the messenger ceases, as has been done with Colonel Torresano, perhaps it is the one who leaves the post that should be him. We ask this House to reproach the minister for the innumerable number of lies made in this case. [[Applauds]] We have also added an amendment to request that the Government comply with the request of the Sudanese citizen, Basir, who was rejected in Melilla and who has not been served in Rabat to comply with his asylum request. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u183	Thank you. In defence of the amendments made by your groups, Mrs Pozueta Fernández is speaking first of all, by the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u184	President, let's go. Today we speak again of the tragedy and massacre that took place in Melilla on 24 June, and we do so in the week of the anniversary of another tragedy, the tragedy of the Tarajal, which took place nine years ago on the border of Ceuta. [[The lady]] Ladies and gentlemen of PSOE and PP, do you know what the problem is? That both have acted in the same way. Therefore, we asked the PSOE to be consistent and to demand the same measures and research that the PP requested in Tarajal and that he has now not wanted to carry out in Melilla. Melilla's tragedy could be avoided, managed from a humanitarian point of view, but the police were preferred. They preferred to let Morocco enter state territory and act brutally. And after that, about five hundred people were summarily expelled to Morocco. After the events, investigations are simulated, but they do not want to go further. Why? Why not disgust Morocco? Why not disgust the Spanish police unions? After the events, we have witnessed unfortunate statements, contradictory versions, concealment of data and facts and, worst of all, lies. The Minister of the Interior has been portrayed in opposition to journalistic investigations, the Ombudsman and human rights organizations. And today, again, he tried to manipulate a note from the BBC saying they had withdrawn, and that's not true. You, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, like the commissions of inquiry when you are in opposition or to investigate events in other legislatures, but now you do not want it and it would be extremely efficient. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen of the right, they are calling for clarity and transparency, but they are voting against a committee of inquiry. In fact, we would say that the substance of the matter does not matter to you, that you think the same as the PSOE, but that you have found an excuse to wear down the government, because if you intended to clarify the massacre and take action for the future, you yourself would have submitted a request for a committee of inquiry. Today, we have tabled an amendment to your motion asking the ministry for a thorough investigation that clarifies the involvement and responsibilities from the first - Mr Marlaska - to the last agent who participated in that performance. You will not accept it because you really don't care what happened, you don't care why you killed those people, you don't care to bring truth and justice to those victims and neither do you care to put mechanisms in place so that it never happens again, because you only care to close this case falsely, to bring down Minister Marlaska and to shield and maintain in impunity the actions of the state security forces and bodies. They do not seek to clarify, they seek to hide and forget, exactly like the PSOE. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of the Interior handled the situation in the worst way, and the worst is that during these months, with his versions and his lies, he has laughed at this House and at society, and that is why he deserves the criticism of this House, of course he does. But, on this case and at this time, now what matters and what is urgent is to clarify and investigate what happened, to determine what the facts were and what was responsible for them and, if there were, to debug and, above all, to take steps to ensure that something like this does not happen again. If after that it is necessary to ask for the cessations that are needed - of one or twenty-one - we will do it, but now the important thing is to investigate. Therefore, I ask you both, the PP and the PSOE, do we approve a commission of inquiry or do we continue to use this misfortune as an element of confrontation simply? In short, what is happening on the southern border is a humanitarian drama and it needs to take precedence over humanitarian measures, because if there are no events like those experienced in June in Melilla or Tarajal in 2014. We have to look for safe and legal ways for no one to play life for asylum. He ended up bringing to this Chamber the case of the young Sudanese Basir, a survivor of the Melilla tragedy, who was returned to Morocco and who has now applied for asylum at the Spanish embassy in Rabat. He must have left Sudan for religious reasons and is also in danger in Morocco.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u185	Mrs. Pozueta, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u186	Finished. We hope that the Government will resolve this case satisfactorily, join the demand for urgent international protection and hope that this will be done as soon as possible. A thousand esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u187	Thank you very much. Mrs López Álvarez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u188	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, our Queen Isabel I of Castile, the Catholic, said: I was born in Castile and I will die in Castile; and I here today, at the seat of national sovereignty, say to you: I was born in Ceuta and I will die in Ceuta, a Spanish city in North Africa together with Melilla, despite the many invasions and attacks that we suffer and the zero defense that this Government makes of our borders. [[applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u189	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u190	Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, of course we repudiate each and every effort made by the Minister of the Interior. We find that it has been sold to separatists, coups, communists and representatives of terrorist murderers; that it has handed over Spain with its approach of murderers to Basque prisons and its third degree to those same murderers; for ceding the powers of prisons to the Basque Government and for continuing to allow public tributes to prisoners of age. Also for giving in to the transfer of competences in the field of traffic to Navarra; for unprotecting the forces and security forces of the State before the next amendment of the law of citizen security, which are cooking under the permanent blackmail of its partners of government and of the separatist and terrorist misery; for continuing also in the abandonment of penal institutions since, with more than thirty extensions of the deadline of amendments, they are not able to convene the presentation of amendment of article 80 of the General Organic Prison Law to make agents of the authority to the officials of prisons. [[applause]] And also because Mr Marlaska has shown with a note cum laude that he is a zero on the left, and never better said, he is a zero on the left in defending our borders, in defending Spain's borders with Morocco and also in letting the Canary Islands suffer the invasion of thousands of illegal immigrants, such as the more than 20,000 who arrived in Arguineguin in the midst of the pandemic. Yes, there are reasons for the rejection of the Minister of the Interior, but the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party are mistaken in their arguments and in their motives. You in your motion are devoted to wandering about whether Moroccan gendarmes entered Spanish soil or whether it was an avalanche caused by Moroccan gendarmes and do not focus on what was important, in which it was an attack on our homeland. [[Applauds]] But of course, if it was the People's Party that joined those groups that want to destroy our nation by making a trip to Melilla to focus our Civil Guard's action on that massive, violent and organized assault on the Melilla fence of about 2,000 illegals on June 24. You went to accompany Bildu and Esquerra, to point out to the Civil Guard personnel for their performance that day, where there were fifty-five officers injured. Which side are you really on, ladies and gentlemen? Because you knew perfectly well that those parties promoted that visit for the criminalization, the attack and the contempt of the Civil Guard. So yes, we want the reprobation of the Minister of the Interior and his dismissal, but for this reason, because this is shameful and regrettable: 'Interior pressed for a month the Colonel of Melilla to dispatch the agents of the fence'. [[shows a press clipping]] And, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, a point. In the invasion of Ceuta in May 2021, the president of the city, the popular Juan Vivas, described the state of emergency, but it was Juan Vivas himself who joined Pedro Sánchez and welcomed him with open arms on that occasion and also when the president of the government unilaterally changed the position of Spain regarding the Sahara. Look: 'Sánchez finds in Vivas his only ally with Rabat'. [[Show another press clipping]] 'The president of Ceuta receives the chief executive with red carpet and promises absolute loyalty to the government'. Order up. You tell the Minister of the Interior to resign, out of decency and political dignity, but I remind you that whoever keeps the People's Party in Ceuta, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is the Socialist Party together with the localist parties of the Promoroquies, which has led Ceuta to become an insecure city that, like Melilla, has become a jihadist focus in Spain, according to the forces and security corps of the State, and has made Ceuta a city without Spanish or Western identity. [[applause]] [[shows another press clipping]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, say what you say, you are what you do, and your actions, like those of Marlaska, do not correspond to your words. From all this we conclude that dignity and honor is to defend our homeland without reinforcements and without means, for true love of the homeland,...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u191	Mrs. Lopez, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u192	... what do - yes, I finish, Madam President - with so few staff and means the Benemerita agents in Ceuta and Melilla. For this reason, the gratitude and recognition of the VOX Parliamentary Group to the Civil Guard, because for a true vocation of service to the homeland and despite the stonework not only in the fences, but the institutional that it receives with this Government, the Civil Guard continues to walk on foot defending Spain. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez. Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group in the position-setting round.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u194	Thank you, President. After two appearances at the Congress of the Minister of the Interior, we have not yet clarified the circumstances of what happened in Melilla, it has already been said, the person who died in the territory of the Kingdom of Spain, the lack of health care that could have occurred in the territory of the Kingdom of Spain, the hot returns that did not take into account whether people were asylum-seekers or not, and the disproportionate use of force. In addition, Interior ceases one of the Spanish Civil Guard's commanders in Melilla because, according to journalistic sources, it does not agree with the investigation of the Prosecutor's Office, and the Prosecutor's Office, for its part, files the investigation on what happened in Melilla, as happened with Tarajal. It is incredible, it is unlikely that the commission of inquiry will be banned, that the Office of the Prosecutor will close the investigation and that the Government will not address the imperative need to put order in the State security forces and bodies in general and at the border in particular. It is also incredible that the People's Party is taking advantage of this opportunity. You're the ones from Operation Catalonia, you're the ones from the patriotic police. That you talk to us about transparency and fundamental rights is curious; moreover, that you come to give us lessons of punitiveism is already from another planet and that VOX goes up to this rostrum to boast of Spanish colonialism in the 21st century, is already totally Martian. But let the People's Party and VOX behave unethically - to put it diplomatically - not exempt you, ladies and gentlemen of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and of the United We can, from what happened in Melilla. They are directly responsible because it is their Government and are their ministries. To talk about respect for fundamental rights and transparency is to talk about the Official Secrets Act, of which today the President of the Government in the control session has stated that there will be no reform; it is to talk about Pegasus, which, by the way, the European Parliament has already stated that it will send a commission of inquiry to the Kingdom of Spain, and it is also to talk about police infiltrations into social and political movements. Marlaska has given no explanation, Pedro Sánchez has today evaded the question of the Member of the Republican Left in the control session and we can do nothing but bring back to this House - we already did it at the time and Marlaska did not answer us - a report from the National Police Information Commissioner - I have it here - in which it is acknowledged that they infiltrate social and political movements of Catalan society with a legislative framework reserved for terrorism and organized crime. [[shows a report]] You spy on us in a calculated and meticulously planned way for being an organized society and for ideological reasons, for being or for supporting independence; and this has no place in a democratic society and this is indeed the responsibility of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party and of the United We Can. It is your Government and you should explain to society why you use methods that are neither democratic nor proper to a rule of law, as you defend every day you go up to this stage. This week another case has been made public, also by La Directa, another police infiltration. His Government, when it comes to civil and political rights, did the same policies as the People's Party they so much criticized. It is not worth making policies in social matters and then, on the hard issues of the State, on those issues related to fundamental rights at the border and civil and political rights, doing the same policy as the right.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u195	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u196	Thank you very much, President. Soon. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, we will not support your initiative for reasons of form and substance. So, because we believe that you are taking advantage of the Melilla tragedy to conclude the general adjustment of accounts that you, the People's Parliamentary Group, have been practicing with the Minister of the Interior for much of the parliamentary term on a number of issues on which we have already discussed on many occasions and on which our parliamentary group has not given its support to your initiatives. [[The Lord]] As to the substance of the matter, in particular the strict content of what is now being urged of the Government, I see this motion as the ink of the squid, and I explain it very briefly. They call for the rejection and cessation of the Minister of the Interior - then only the first - for his responsibility in the Melilla tragedy, jumping or hiding something that is in hand, within the reach of the votes of the People's Parliamentary Group and to what has not been lent so far, which is to add his votes to those of other parliamentary groups that we demand the setting up of a commission of inquiry to, where appropriate, determine the political responsibilities that might arise and, also, like any commission of inquiry, so that these facts, if they may be, never again pass the protocols of the rejections at the border. Secondly, also with regard to the strict content of what the Government is urged to do, we would have liked to be able to support the self-amendment they are submitting to his motion concerning the transfer from Morocco to Spain of the young Sudanese of the fictitious name Basir, expelled from Melilla during the tragic day of 24 June last for the processing of his asylum application, under article 38 of the Aliens Act. However, having submitted this complaint to the Government as an amendment prevents, according to the Rules of this House, that the motion may be debated by points and, therefore, it cannot be ruled out that the minister of the transfer to Spain of young Basir, a situation which you could have avoided if in the initial version of the motion you had included the case of young Basir and his protection or, in the self-amendment, only this point of the motion, the first thing - which was also within reach of your hand from the first moment, when you made use of it - in the first intervention of the inquiry, and also in detail, calling on the Minister of the Interior to guarantee the opening of the doors of Spain. If they have not, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, it is because they use - in our view - the case as a hostage to obtain the vote in favour of the one so sought for by their disapproval and/or cessation of the Minister of the Interior. And, ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group will not lend itself to this parliamentary constraint, to this, in our view, parliamentary blackmail. However, from this rostrum, I would like to ask the Government and the administration concerned, in this case the Ambassador of Spain to Morocco, to arrange for the transfer of young Basir to Spain in accordance with article 38 so that he can formalize his asylum application and preserve his security and his right to life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u197	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Gutiérrez Vivas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u198	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. This is the first debate on the sad events of 24 June, and I would like to start with a preliminary consideration. I understand that it is tempting to use this sort of thing to make electoral populism in the face of an upcoming election date like May's, but, gentlemen of VOX, please, we are talking about a tragedy with more than twenty deaths - which is known -, with a great many, with dozens of missing people. You can't do electoral strategy and electoral demagogy with a tragedy like this. If this is going to be the show and the stage that awaits us until the May elections, I would ask you for a reflection. I think it's sad to play with people's lives, especially the lives of people who have less. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party and ladies and gentlemen of the House, the debate before us is about whether Mr Marlaska's conduct is reprobable or not - because that is what we are going to vote on today - and I think he is inclined to do so, not only because of what happened to the events of 24 June, but also because of a lot of previous things. Or is it not reprehensible for a minister to lie to the House when he gives explanations about the events of June 24th? Because all the Spaniards have seen the images of the reality of what happened there, both the images that were taken from the Spanish side and those - which unfortunately we could not see in the Interior Committee - that were taken from the Moroccan side and that say a lot about what happened there, that say a lot about the lies of Minister Marlaska. Therefore, a minister who lies to all Spaniards is a reprehensible minister. And is it not reprehensible for a minister who twice refuses to appear before the European Parliament's Committee on Justice to explain this? Do you really not find this reprehensible, gentlemen of the Socialist Party? Do you believe that it is worthy of a state like Spanish to have a minister who is absent and does not want to attend, to give explanations in the European Parliament? Is that your European vocation? Is that what it seems to you that a Spanish state minister should do? Because if it were any other party, you'd be saying exactly the opposite of what you're going to tell us today. Mr Marlaska never wants to appear on a voluntary basis and, therefore, he does not go to the European Parliament, as he does not come to this House; he comes to this House when we force him and when there is a majority that compels him, of course, never when he is asked in an orderly manner. Is it not, moreover, reprehensible that a minister has ceased indiscriminately - and with total legitimacy in many cases - to many of the commands of the Ministry of the Interior, who are men who are at his command? Because we no longer speak only of the Corbí case or of Mr Pérez de los Cobos, we speak now also of Mr Torresano. But, listen, we are talking about Mr Marquez Salaverri, the director of the prison in Algeciras, who has also been stopped for refusing to give part of some of his prison officials when they had been precisely harassed and attacked. So, what are we talking about at the Ministry of the Interior? Does all this really seem morally sustainable to you? Because in the cases of other ministers who are not of the Socialist Party, like Mrs Montero, it no longer seems so bad to you that you have to change your opinion, that you have to change the law you brought here, it does not seem so bad to present a proposal for a law to modify that. That is, if the ministers of this government who are wrong are from another party, then yes, we are going to change things; but if the ministers who are wrong are from the Socialist Party, then no, we are not going to blame anything, we are not going to say anything and we are not going to hold Mr Marlaska responsible. Know that Mr. Marlaska, of the things he doesn't know, is probably the honor and companionship of the commanders necessary to act with his officials. We know very well what this is about ceasing officials because we have it here. We have a colleague who was also stopped by this socialist government precisely because he did his job, because he was a good official. Gentlemen of the PSOE, I believe that persevering in error is not good; it is not good for you, it is not good for Spain, above all, and it is not good for the Spaniards, of course not. In this case, you are only harming the forces and security forces of the State, the prison officials and, therefore, all the Spaniards. I ask you to reflect, please, on a case as clear as this, because if there is ever reason to reproach the minister - he has finished, President - it is precisely this. Don't act like those old hidalgos ready to hold it and never amend it.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u199	Your Honor, finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u200	It's over, President. Because Spain can't afford this anymore. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u201	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, Mrs Calvo Gómez.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u202	This very morning President Pedro Sánchez said: I give my face. No, because the members of his government do not. Where's Minister Grande-Marlaska? The massacre, the massacre, the Melilla tragedy, and seven months later we still do not know how many desperate stories ended up on the southern border of your Spain. We still do not know how many lives perished under the disproportion of Moroccan or Spanish border forces. And thanks to the Prosecutor's Office - which either tunes it to you, or files it to you - we will remain deprived of the truth. Because he bought the government's story: violent, disproportionate, uncontrolled, massive attacks by armed and dangerous people. They missed the riots. A prosecution that justifies up to 470 hot returns, their border rejections. We will remain deprived of knowing how Pedro Sánchez's well-resolved operation could end the drag of bodies from one side of the border to the other. Images that, perhaps, have seen these mothers whom I do not know but whom I have seen since the first second of this intervention. We still do not know if the dead were 23, 37 or 72, according to the testimonies gathered by some NGOs. From 23 to 37 there are 14 broken lives; from 23 to 72 there are 49 more mothers crying to their children from Chad or Sudan or in some land with no future. In a truly legal state, a prosecutor's office does not file such a flagrant violation of human rights without accountability, without adjusting them, without seeking justice until the last body killed. In a state of law the Melilla massacre is an immediate cessation of the Minister of the Interior; a minister who does not rectify after saying that there were no deaths in Spanish territory, who does not assist in explaining to the European Parliament, to the Committee on Civil Liberties. They're probably gonna invite him back, and you know what? This time it would be logical that it was not, but because it was no longer a minister; it does not deserve to follow a minute more in office, by Melilla, but also by so many other cases of violation of rights. [[Continue your speech in Catalan]] A few days ago - very timely - he ceased the colonel of the Guardia Civil Torresano Muñoz, after two months as head of the armed institute in Seville. Opacity has also kidnapped the truth in this ceasing. Forced transfer for service needs. Now! They say that they refused to open a disciplinary file to civilian guards throwing stones at migrants, a file that no one has, by the way, opened and intended to charge some of these migrants with an attack on authority. He's been assigned to the University School of the Civil Guard in Madrid. They must think their behavior is very educational. I'm sure he's not going to give the subject of human rights. As my colleague Mariona Illamola has already said, the externalisation of borders between Spain and the European Union cannot be the way to legitimise human rights violations either by a Member State or by a third State. Just in border control, where the migrant is most vulnerable, public international law must be applied with the utmost guarantees, and Spain does not comply with or respect international standards and hides violations of rights. We are going to vote in favour of the initiative that he wants to repudiate and call for the cessation of Minister Grande-Marlaska. We also support the amendments so that Basir, the Sudanese immigrant persecuted in his country for religious reasons, can receive international protection. I'm sure he's not - we know - the only one who needs that protection, but it's just that from Aquarius we see that there's nothing left, it's just a picture. Today, the most responsible for dozens of women continuing to mourn the death of their children, without having answers, without having justice, is Minister Grande-Marlaska, but also the president who holds him in office, President Sánchez. And whatever happens, the image of Melilla's massacre will always haunt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u203	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Carvalho Dantas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u204	Thank you, President. The impunity for the deaths of the Tarajal has set the precedent of the current Government in relation to the Melilla massacre of 24 June 2022; terrible images that would be a scandal in every rule if it were not to be treated as black bodies. Different political colors for the same criminal act. Lack of justice for victims and reparation for their families. Tarajal, never again! [[Applauds]] Minister Marlaska has once again lied here in Congress today. The BBC has not rectified its documentary on the Melilla tragedy, and this has to be said. Lie! By the way, we will vote on the motion, Mrs Vazquez. The Minister of the Interior has lied in this rostrum today, but before that too. He said - I open quotes -: 'To ask for international protection in Spain you have to knock on its doors. The asylum law clearly defines the areas where to apply for asylum.' I close quotes. He told us it was false and irresponsible to say that many of those who jumped the fences on the day of the Melilla massacre did so because they could not seek asylum otherwise. One example is the case of Amir, a young Sudanese who jumped that day and who was only able to register his asylum application after jumping the fence, because there are no safe and legal ways to seek protection without jumping the fence or scouring life at sea in a paw or in a coffin. Traveling to Spain on a regular basis is impossible for people of certain nationalities because they do not give visas. The minister was denied by every god: Acnur spokespersons, investigative journalists, the Ombudsman, Amnesty International, for ensuring that there were no rejections at the border - hot returns - but also for his lie about the application of article 38 of the asylum law, because if you are a black person, forget the legal and safe ways. This is the pure truth. Demos democrats, a legal study of human rights, met with parliamentary groups - by the way, they expect a response from the PSOE and the ministry - and explained to us the story of their client, Basir, a Sudanese refugee born in the state of South Kordofan, a survivor and internally displaced from the armed conflict that has plagued the country for years and particularly its home state. Moreover, he feared persecution because of his religion, in a country where religious differences were, together with ethnic groups, part of the reasons for the internal armed conflict, in a context of impunity and the absence of effective protection throughout the State. Basir has been subjected to torture, inhuman and degrading treatment by the Algerian and Moroccan police in their transit between Sudan and now Morocco. The Spanish State unjustifiably denied him his right to seek international protection when he was illegally returned to Morocco on the day of the Melilla massacre, where he was again tortured by the Moroccan authorities. On 13 December last year Basir, through his lawyers, attempted to request at the Spanish embassy in Rabat the urgent transfer to the Spanish State in order to be able to apply for international protection, under the famous article of which the minister speaks, 38 of the asylum law. And it is that the Government is obliged to resolve Basir's request urgently, because Basir has been subjected to torture by the Moroccan authorities; because Spain has responsibility for its physical integrity; because it did not allow Basir to have access to international protection; because the asylum law requires differentiated treatment in applications for international protection, and because the asylum law so recognizes. The Government must accept Basir's request for urgent transfer before diplomatic representation as a legal means of initiating the international protection procedure under the famous article 38, because the Minister stated this here, at this headquarters, when he assured that article 38 was an absolutely effective means of accessing Spanish territory and the international protection procedure.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u205	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. I end, Mr President, with this sentence: because if the Spanish State hinders or de facto prevents this possibility, it will be complicit in what happens to Basir. Justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u207	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u208	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the concern of the People's Party for the right to asylum is not very credible, and less so by using twenty-three people who died on 24 June. In Unity We have always defended the right to asylum, we have rejected the border returns of those fleeing humanitarian catastrophes. However, it did not happen the same in the Tarajal, where fourteen people died and twenty-three were returned hot when trying to enter Ceuta, and the People's Party has not assumed any responsibility, even denied the use of rubber balls against drowned people at first. We again transfer our solidarity and respect to all victims and their families for these events. The reparation of the victims is still pending, the exact number of dead, disappeared and injured remains to be clarified, the identification and transfer of the deceased to their places of origin and the release by Morocco of all immigrants, each sentenced to three years'imprisonment. What has happened is a tragedy repeated periodically on the southern border of Spain, because we are not complying with Spanish law or the law of the European Union to ensure that anyone who needs it can apply for asylum. On 24 June, as in the Tarajal, there were deaths without emergency medical assistance. Indeed, concrete measures are needed to ensure that this never happens again, because African refugees must have the same treatment as, for example, Ukrainian refugees. On 29 November, the Minister of the Interior undertook to ensure access to asylum-seekers' posts at the borders, preventing access to asylum-seekers' posts only through the procedure on national territory, i.e. once the fence has been jumped. It also undertook to allow embassies and consulates to receive asylum applications. The State Prosecutor's Office itself, on 22 December, has indicated - literally - that if the regulatory development of article 38 of the Asylum Act were promoted, if real access to the asylum office of the Melilla border post could be made possible, leaps to the fence or the number of participants in them could be reduced. And it is essential, of course, to move to Spain the young Sudanese Basir, who was returned at the border on 24 June and who on 13 December submitted his application for international protection at the Embassy of Spain in Rabat. Almost two months after having applied for asylum, he has not been transferred to Spain, which is what the law says, nor has he received a single communication from the Spanish authorities; therefore, we ask that he be immediately answered and transferred to our country. The Constitutional Court has established on the first final provision of the law on citizen security, which introduced into the Aliens Act by the People's Party the issue of treatment on return at the border, which is constitutional provided that the fulfilment of Spain's international obligations is guaranteed, i.e. the right to effective judicial protection, the right to free legal assistance and interpretation, the right to defence at the border, in particular, the formulation of allegations and the submission of remedies. These requirements laid down by the Constitutional Court and subsequently reiterated by the European Court of Human Rights state that it is the ministries that must implement the precise measures so that asylum and protection can be sought in the Spanish diplomatic or consular offices at the border posts of Ceuta and Melilla, so that those who try to access Spain by jumping from the fence do not have to do so because they can opt to go to the legally established system. We propose that the Ministry of the Interior make the necessary changes as soon as possible, as Minister Marlaska told us last November that we would proceed immediately. But we also ask the People's Party to be consistent with the content of its inquiry on 21 December. Mrs Vázquez, whom I regret she is not, literally said: to avoid new humanitarian tragedies - this has been the biggest on the Spanish border - to defend human rights, to guarantee the right to asylum. Well, all right, we've got the opportunity now. The debate on the citizens' security law is immediately going to go to the Committee on the Interior and the same final provision introduced by the People's Party continues. We call on the People's Party to join a great consensus so that, by amending that final provision, what Mrs Vázquez has asked for, human rights and the right of asylum are upheld...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u209	Your Honor, you must go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u210	...and that the necessary reforms be put in place so that this does not happen again. This is how the People's Party will demonstrate its commitment to the right of asylum. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u211	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Serrada Pariente has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, a preview, because there are people who will be watching us at home and perhaps they do not know very well what this debate is about or what the background is. I'll put them on record. The noise in this House today has continued. The noise is that the right and the independenceists have insulted each other again, they have said everything again, etc., that is, they have theatricalized a question and now we come here and we realize, as Mrs Dantas said, that it is a scandal. The scandal is what we are living here: the right of the People's Party by agreeing with the Republican Left of Catalonia an amendment that makes a self-amendment of the People's Party. This, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is something that we must all bear in mind. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, ladies and gentlemen of other parties, stability in democracy is a concept that is not volatile, it is a concept that is not interpretable. Perhaps we should see what happened a week ago in Catalonia and that criterion that we have followed of stability should also take into account today when making some decisions that we are taking, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen of the Republican Left and ladies and gentlemen of the Junts. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, who are you defending here today? What do you guys bring this here for? It's a basic question in politics. Why are you bringing this here? To defend the citizens of Melilla? No To defend the institutions of the State: Public Prosecutor, Ombudsman...? Neither. To defend the bodies and security forces? Neither. To defend NGOs? Neither. To defend the people who tried to enter our country? No, no, For seven years you have made a policy in the field of zero migration, scarce, without a single proposal, as you bring to this House today. What they bring to this House today is simply an element of the government's weariness, which has been joined by political forces who always aim to give moral lessons and which today the only thing they have done has been to join a right-wing initiative, which we will see if the extreme right also supports, because then today would make someone the most ridiculous after the disqualifications... [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas, standing up, shows a photo on a laptop]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u213	One second, Mr. Serrada. Mrs Carvalho, you have called her to order for the second time and I have to warn you that since this is the second time you have called her to order in this plenary session, if I have to do so a third time, you will be expelled from the Chamber. So I ask you, please, to omit and cease the permanent attitude, both yesterday and today, of showing both posters and the computer, which you already know is something that the Regulation strictly prohibits. I beg you not to do it again, because, if you repeat it again, Your Honor, unfortunately, I will have to expel you. [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas: Infamy!]] Any time, Mr. Serrada.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u214	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you were thinking exclusively of yourselves when you were writing this. And, look, if the police are to be used, they use it; if the law is to be twisted, they twist it; if the judiciary is to be fine-tuned, they try to fine-tuned, and if a humanitarian tragedy is to be used, they use it. The ridiculous and shameful thing about today is that there are also parties that have bought their bubble and their lie, that have bought the use of tragic facts that should never have happened, like those of Melilla, as part of the wear and tear of this government. [[applause]] That is what is happening today in this House. [[Applauds]] I'm going to give you four arguments, because your lie is not true, Your Honor. As much as you want to buy it from other parties in this House, your lie is not true. First, was it acting proportionally? Yes, of course I do. Was it done according to the law? Yes, of course I do. And, ladies and gentlemen, I want to make it very clear that we cannot allow these facts to happen again in Melilla. Secondly, transparency, you have spoken here of transparency. Someone was saying here, in this rostrum, that today is also the anniversary of El Tarajal. Difference: we have made available to all of you images, all images, ladies and gentlemen. What the People's Party did was edit the images and place them on their website to try to wash their conscience, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] They did not exercise transparency. All the information available from the Ministry had been made available to those who had to make it available: the Office of the Public Prosecutor, the Ombudsman and this House. Everything has been done according to the law. Everything has been done in accordance with the dictates of international bodies. All the operational decisions that were made that day were correct operational decisions to stop an attack that was suffering our border, and the Minister of the Interior has made more than forty public interventions to explain these facts. Another thing is that you don't want to or that you do an interpretation of what happened that day. I will also give you another comparative element, ladies and gentlemen, between what this Government is doing and what you have done. You have cut the state's security forces and forces into 13,000 officers. In 2023 we will have the historical record of agents in our country. More than EUR 1 billion has been invested in infrastructure, when you dropped barracks and police stations; an investment plan has been implemented on the southern border of Europe of EUR 34 million - you did nothing - and Spain today exercises the European international leadership in migration matters. As you see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group and other political forces, no matter how hard they try, your lie is not true. And I'm done, because I think we're having a very serious debate today on a tragic issue, like the one that happened in Melilla, like that cartoon series by Pierre Nodoyuna, Patan and the evil squad; I don't know if you remember it. I'm just telling you, ladies and gentlemen, that everyone today interprets the character they want to interpret. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u216	No, President, just the People's Group's self-amendment. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u217	Thank you. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ON THE ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN TO THE GOVERNMENT TO ENJOY PARTICULAR PARTICULARS CONCERNING NATIONAL Sovereignty TO CONDITION THE POLITICAL LIFE OF SPAIN. [[File number 173/000190]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u218	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the actions that the Government will take to prevent parties that violate national sovereignty being able to condition the political life of Spain. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. This motion, following urgent questioning by the VOX Parliamentary Group, brings here to the House, to the seat of national sovereignty, a crucial question, a fundamental question, because it reveals that the important thing is at risk: the survival of the nation, the constitutional order, democracy and, ultimately, the coexistence between the Spaniards. And we also bring here a subject that has been taboo for decades, that no one dared touch. You had to come VOX to put it on the table, to address the Spaniards from here and ask them a question: do we have to continue accepting the destructive and suicidal blackmail of separatism? We don't think so. For this reason, the interpellation we developed on 21 February called into question a relationship of examples that, without being numerus clausus, were significant enough to realize how perverse and destructive politics has been for decades, yielding to the blackmail of separatism. We plan how the Criminal Code has been amended to reduce the penalty of embezzlement to those who are members of the Government and how the crime of sedition has been repealed to satisfy the members of the Government. [[Butterflies]] Pardons had been approved without any legal basis to leave on the street those government partners who had been convicted by the Supreme Court. All kinds of omissions have been made to whitewash terrorism and its partners 2. [[Filoetatras]] Assignment of prison health competence has been carried out so that those with Government support can also decide on reports on which it is up to them to put into prison at an early age. It has been decided that the CNI should not investigate the violent groups of the CDRs. It has been decided that the Civil Traffic Guard had to leave Navarre. It has been decided to abandon the families who want to educate their children in the mother tongue, Spanish, so that they are not even protected by that sad and miserable 25% recognized by the courts. The history of parliamentarianism since the adoption of the 1978 Constitution leaves us with ample evidence that both the Socialist Party and the People's Party, both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, have protected themselves and have always relied on separatist groups because they needed them to reach the Government. Instead of being genuine parties of government and state, agreeing among them the great issues that affect all Spaniards, they have preferred to kneel before the separatisms of all colors and to yield always; of course, to yield to them what is not theirs: national sovereignty and the freedom of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] The question we ask ourselves is: can this be prevented? Can you take action? We say yes. VOX has put it before society. This brochure that we have called Spain decides has many of the questions that all Spaniards ask themselves day by day, questions of common sense that must be dared to ask the Spaniards, and not keep turning their backs and legislating against their interests without even listening to their opinion. [[shows the brochure]] We could ask, for example: shouldn't the Political Parties Act be reformed so that all political parties that openly, in their ideas and in their daily actions, aim to energize national sovereignty, break the Constitution and break the coexistence of the Spaniards are declared unconstitutional? Can we not ask the Spaniards whether they prefer that, instead of having seventeen ministers sharing scarce public resources, there be a Ministry of Health, a Ministry of Justice, a Ministry of the Interior or a Ministry of Education unique to all Spaniards, with equal rights, with equal opportunities, with equal obligations? Is not our nation so much stronger, that it is not cut and divided into seventeen competencies? [[Applauds]] 1 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. 2 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. We could ask them if we should not reform the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime for something as easy to understand for any Spanish as that each one of us who occupies one of these seats represents the same number of Spaniards. Because, when it comes to voting on the laws here, the vote of the Member who voted on the right and the vote on the left is worth one, but sometimes, as you know, the one on the right represents 80,000 or 100,000 Spaniards and the one on the left only 30,000. Why don't we give the same equality and representativeness to all Spaniards? Why don't we ask the Spaniards, for example, if they don't believe that the Criminal Code should protect important issues? For example, re-enactment of illegal referendums, re-enactment of the crime of sedition and worsening of rebellion and embezzlement should be criminalized. In short, issues affecting not only legislative policy, although important, but above all those affecting the essentials of the nation. Here you have to ask yourself and now I do it by looking at the People's Group that aspires to govern - I suppose you will understand that you will not get it alone and that you will certainly need the concert of our group - if you intend to continue to maintain the same policies. Because what the People's Party has taught us so far is that one thing it says when it's in the opposition and another thing it does when it's in the government, that one thing it says it's going to do and the omission of something it doesn't do, as it has done with laws of gender ideology, with laws of abortion, with laws of euthanasia, with the National Hydrological Plan, etc. In short, what I want to say to you - and that is what I am finishing, Mr President - is that you can and should ask the Spanish. But by the time one of the voices in this House...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u220	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u221	I'm on my way. ...say it's not possible, I beg you to look at our environment, at that Europe you like to point out... [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European ……]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u222	Your time is up. Thank you so much. As no amendments have been tabled to this initiative, we move on to position-setting. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u223	Thank you very much, President. To you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, it bothers you to call them 3; I do not know if it bothers you or pretends to bother you. [[Francoists or fascists]] However, today they bring us a motion that, first, starts from the fact that the unity of Spain presupposes political values, that is, that the unity of Spain is above democracy - by the way, this word, democracy, which appears only once, and because it is a quote from the Constitution, in its nine pages of motion -; second, it refers to us as enemies of the nation or enemies of Spain, and third, it proposes to illegalize the parties that, like ours, we do not defend such unity of Spain. Then there are also the typical discursive strategies that emulate the Francoist narrative that, after a coup d'état in 1936, called rebels to those who precisely defended the constitutional order. It is the equivalence to what you do today when referring to the October 1st coup, when that day of 2017 the only violence and the only weapons were on the side of those who tried to prevent our referendum. [[Applauds]] The lexicon, the tone and, above all, the ideology that transmits this motion are a transposition of Franco's speech. Look, if not, at these extracts from the motion. I quote: In recent times strategies and actions have been generalized with pretension and entity to subvert the constitutional order through the destruction of national sovereignty. These enemies of Spain act in a nearly sick way by disengaging from the national territory part of it. We are faced with a moment when the Government, far from its role as guardian of the interests of all Spaniards, acts as a mere puppet of the separatist parties that attack the unity of Spain and that seek its mutilation and annihilation. I read below two excerpts from Fascist Franco's late-year speech in 1954: 'As victims of the division of the Spanish into parties, which so many opportunities gave foreign intrigue to speculate with our disunity and accentuate and promote our weakness, we need 3 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. make unity between the Spaniards and jealous custody of our freedom and sovereignty an unbreakable principle of national politics'. And the fascist Franco followed: 'A tactic long awaited by the enemy of Spain, and for which he has always used unconscious Spanish agents, is to propagate species and create artificial concerns around them'. Wow, they could have written in 1954 this motion that today's game 4 VOX. [[fascist]] [[Rumors.-Applause.]] If we add to all this their sectarian, sexist and integrist Catholicism, and their constant disrespectful references to the outside world, we have the complete. You feel the heirs of the 1939 crusade and here are the separatist reds; term, by the way, that does not bother me at all, even knowing that it was the one you used to repress my ancestors and so many other antifascists. [[Applauds]] But I tell them in a language they understand: they will have neither captives nor unarmed. We are free and we will have the strength to achieve our independence. [[He finishes his speech in Catalan.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u224	Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Mrs. Nogueras i Camero and Mrs. Romero Vilches exchange words that are not perceived.- Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're not in a schoolyard. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: It seems so, because you tolerate it!]] Yes, yes, and also the expressions made by some of its members. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: Fascist President!]] So I ask both of you to stop, please, and we can continue the debate. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: Fascist President! You can say that, can't you?]] Let's move on. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u225	Eguerdi on guztioi. First of all, I would like to apologize to the working class; to those who do not arrive at the end of the month; to those who can barely afford the light, the rent or a mortgage; to those who suffer from xenophobia or misogynistic violence; to those who accumulate precarious contracts and live at risk of eviction or a step away from poverty. I apologize because today we should be talking about them, about the billion-dollar profits of the BBVA or the Santander, about a law that guarantees the right to housing, about the protection of victims of violence against women, about the working and wage conditions of the popular majority or about the incomprehensible pardon given by the National Court to the Spanish builders, who for twenty-five years have been making a cartel to profit from the money of everyone. But, once again, the errandmen, the scoundrels of the great capital, bring to this House their patriotism of shambles to try to cover up social injustice under a flag that disguises as a worldview, but, rather than a worldview, it is'scomber vision' what you have brought here today. Today forty-five years ago, in this same rostrum, Congressman Francisco Letamendia, Ortzi, had a debate with a former Francoist minister named Manuel Fraga. I would like to repeat here today the same as Letamendia, Ortzi, then said: We and we try to defend the unprotected, have the flag you have; you only defend the powerful and have only one flag, which is the flag of money. And, yes, we are red and separatist, we are the Basque independenceist left, the one who was, the one who is and the one who will be, despite you. But you don't even feel an apex of respect for the laws you claim to be defending; and I don't mean the deputy of VOX convicted of not paying for the works of his villa; nor the candidate of VOX in the Levante, condemned for macho violence; nor the former deputy of VOX in the Parliament of Andalusia, to whom Hacienda claims 2.5 million euros for aid to a project that he never executed. No, I mean this motion, where you show that you do not know or accept the law in force. They propose that the regions be deprived of their powers. I don't know what you mean by regions. Is this the region of the Salamanca neighborhood? To the region of the after that has become so famous these days? To the Abu Dhabi region perhaps? I say this because some Members are here as representatives of our respective nationalities, yes, nationalities. They read article 2 of the Spanish Constitution, which recognizes and guarantees the right to autonomy of nationalities. And I'm telling you as a representative of the Basque people, of Euskal Herria. Yes - there is Mr García Adanero to whom this would implode his head -, is called Euskal Herria, and it is not because I say it or because the Basque independenceist left says it, it is because the Organic Law 3/1979, of 18 December, says it, that you probably also do not know. 4 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. You come here to pose an absolutely false debate, because what you propose is that the Spanish State behaves as a militant democracy, but it is not; and not because Euskal Herria Bildu, the Basque independenceist left, wants it or wants it, is not because there are three Constitutional Court rulings of 2001, 2007 and 2008 that expressly tell you that the Spanish Constitution is not a militant Constitution. Moreover, they say that in our system there is no room for a model of militant democracy that imposes unwavering adherence to the Spanish Constitution and the rest of the legal system. But if this were so, if this were a militant democracy, the first to be illegalized would be you, who would pass through the arch of triumph all the social articles of the Spanish Constitution. [[Applauds]] But I'm going further, because it's funny. Spanish democracy is not a militant democracy because in the 1978 debate, in article 16 of the Spanish Constitution, which has to do with rights and duties, it was proposed that there should be the possibility of not declaring the religious creed of each one. That was so in article 16, but there was a Member who in 1978 suggested that, alongside the right not to declare the religious profession, the same right should be guaranteed for the ideological one. And do you know who that congressman was? For - this is wonderful - only VOX, culminating in incoherence, would think to introduce this Member who makes impossible what they want as a candidate in a motion of censure against the Government of the Spanish State. That gentleman was Ramon Tamames. [[Applauds]] It's over now. What you propose is to empty the autonomy and I invite the VOX gentlemen to preach with the example and empty the autonomy by taking their own deputies out of the autonomous parliaments. Aren't autonomies chiringuitos? Abandon autonomy! How do you explain that your vice president in Castile and León has to spend EUR 1 200 000 to manage a portfolio of EUR 112,000? This is wonderful. Get him to manage everyone's money.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u226	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u227	It's over now. Preach with the example, dislodge and deliver the high offices, because, if what you intend with this is to get the independent left out of the places where Basque citizenship puts it, I tell you that you can wait a lot longer... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u228	Thank you very much, your time is up. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u229	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We are in one of these non-legislative VOX initiatives where everything is mixed together. There are things that are fine and that our party shares. No one will have doubts about the colonization that Pedro Sánchez has made of state institutions, ceasing full officials, such as the director of the CNio like Diego Pérez de los Cobos; about that aberration that were the pardons to the trial or reforming to the letter in the Penal Code the crimes of rebellion and sedition; about the rapprochement of prisoners from ETA to the Basque Country, together with the transfer of competences precisely to the Basque Country; about the frauds that the Executive Power has committed in the ordinary legislative process within the Legislative Power; about the transfer of competences that has existed for forty years because of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, who prefer to bend the nationalists to reform the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime, as the intervener has said by VOX. Then, by the way, in case this were not enough, we also found the dismantling of the railway infrastructure. That is to say, everything nuclear is introduced here in this GNP to ask for a referendum for the Spanish to say whether separatist parties should be illegalized and, as they want to win that referendum - possibly as Franco won them, with 100 percent of the votes cast - then reform the Political Parties Act to that effect. For I have done many things in my professional life in the state's legal profession, but one of the things I am most proud of is that I have put my granite sand from 2003 to 2010 in the illegalization of the Basque political parties according to the party law. Why? Because they were the economic and social support of a terrorist gang, the ETA terrorist gang. They governed both the People's Party and the Socialist Party and we spent hours and hours in San Bernardo 45, in the Ministry of Justice, illegalizing these political parties, using intelligence reports from the Civil Guard and the National Police and crossing data, because these parties did what they did was to present genuine terrorists convicted on the electoral lists and in the end it turned out that, with subsidies to these political parties, it was financed that the terrorist gang killed innocent people. It seems that the Spanish government at the time of the Socialist Party negotiated with ETA in Switzerland - that was what the newspapers said at the time, I don't know - and the case is that the terrorist gang surrendered, the terrorist gang lost and surrendered. All those parties - Batasuna, Euskal Herritarrok, Herri Batasuna, Herritarren Zerrenda, Communist Party of the Basque Lands, Basque Nationalist Action, Askatasuna, AukeraGuztiak, Sozialist Abertzaleak - were part of a terrorist gang. We were winning the Attorney General's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office before the 61st Chamber of the Supreme Court and then before the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court said-it has also been said before - that Spain is not a militant democracy. We may agree or we may disagree, but a constitutionalist party abides by the rulings of the Constitutional Court. You, gentlemen, with this motion you become an anti-system party, you become the same thing that you intend to illegalize, exactly the same thing that you intend to illegalize. We must abide by what the Constitutional Court says. The Constitutional Court says that we do not have an article like 89 of the French Constitution or 289 of the Portuguese Constitution, and therefore parties whose ideas run counter to the Constitution are allowed in our system. We have the greatest margin of freedom possible within the framework of the Constitution, because political parties are admitted that what they intend to do is to end the Constitution, like these gentlemen of the Republican Left of Catalonia who are sitting here. Whether we like it or not, ideas are not illegal. What's going on? That's why these gentlemen can legitimately say they're independenceists; what they can't do is skip the law to achieve their goals. That is why you can defend that the autonomous communities should disappear, or that is why you can defend that madness of the plurinational republic. They have listened to Mr Matute: they are wishing to vote in favour of this motion, because if they vote in favour of this motion, what they intend to do is to illegalise VOX. Do you not realize that what you have raised is a motion so that anyone who governs can illegalize VOX, because you defend things that are contrary - as you say and I open quotes - to the true interests of the nation, which are those of the Spanish Constitution? We must reform the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime - the only serious proposal is that of my party, that of Citizens - and stop illegalizing ideas and political parties. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u230	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u231	Thank you, Mr. President. Galicia is a nation, we know it the Galicians and Galicians, and it was even recognized as such at the international level by the League of Nations, a precedent of the UN, in 1933. We are a people with language, culture, history and characteristics of our own, and also with the will to exercise as a free nation to achieve progress and well-being as well. That's why his uniforming and frank vision of 'Spain One' does not fit in the Galician people. Let me remind you of the representation of the ultra-Spanishist right in my country: zero mayors, as councillors, zero deputies. Meanwhile, the BNG is Galicia's second-largest political force, and is growing. Perhaps that is why you bring here an infamous proposal to illegalise yourself, which, in passing, demonstrates your deep anti-democratic character. We already know that many of you are left, that you are worth nothing that does not agree with your way of thinking. They declare themselves constitutionalists, but they are left with even the autonomy provided for in their Constitution. Look, they don't scare us, they won't push us back. No matter how much they weigh, we'll keep moving forward.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u232	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u233	Finished. You know what's gonna happen? That within a year the BNG will be ruling in Galicia and you in my country will remain what you are: nothing, absolutely nothing. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u234	Thank you. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u235	Thank you, President. New motion for a VOX teabeon. How many millions of citizens want to outlaw, ten million, twenty million, twenty-six million, as the retired general friend of you wanted? They illegalized Compromises, they illegalized me? Did you illegalize freedom of opinion? Did they legalize the ideas? Did they legalize democracy? Did they legalize the autonomies? If they don't want them, why do they charge for them? Why don't you leave? Why isn't your vice president, who charges so much, leaving? Why don't they have the nostrils to get away from the autonomies? You hypocrites! What if you illegalize yourselves and leave us all alone? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] This country would live so much better. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u237	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by reassuring the Members of the CUP, of Bildu, of Esquerra Republicana, of the BNG, of Together and of my group, because, if you have appreciated and listened carefully to Mr Ortega-Smith's statement, this is not a motion against us, it is a motion against the PP. They have not yet learned: this is an absolutely populist motion, with the sole aim of trying to take some votes not from the right, but from the far right and trying to drag the People's Party to the far right. My concern is that the People's Party is often falling into this trap; and then, we have what we have. You speak of enemies of Spain. When they speak of enemies of Spain they refer to me, to the deputies of Esquerra, to the CUP, to the PNV, to Bildu and also to the Communist Party. The reality is that, even if you do not know, you are much more enemies of Spain than any of the Members you call independenceists and we are in this House. They do much more harm to Spain than any of the Members who have come to this rostrum. In any case, regarding when the videos pass through their networks, with the only populist spirit, I would ask them to put among them the following fifteen seconds of my intervention: Don't fool them, that Spain, the Constitution, the autonomy to VOX matter a pepper; that it is simply a political strategy - I was going to say rude, perhaps not so rude - to try to scratch some votes and assume some quotas of power. Thank you so much for these fifteen seconds in the VOX video.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u238	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bassa Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u239	Thank you, President. Hitler did not run for election saying he was going to kill millions of people. He was talking about illegalizing parties, like you, and orchestrating hate speech by pointing to the enemies, whom they would then analyze, jail and murder. And today's fascists act in the same way and call themselves constitutionalists. The list of enemies pointed out by the fascists is long and well known. The only remaining doubt is about the order they will follow in their persecution and how their enemies will act. [[Applauds]] As Pastor Martín Niemöller recalled, 'the communists came first and, of course, I didn't say anything because I wasn't a communist'. As the pastor recalled, we also remember that the enemies of fascism continue to be the same as they were a hundred years ago: red and separatist, immigrants, feminists, abortionists, poor, gay, lesbian, transsexual, communist, socialist and anyone who thinks, lives or feels different from them, because, in essence, fascism is what it seeks to impose its way of seeing the world, repressing or liquidating any dissent. Today we, the independenceists, are the stated objective. Tomorrow will be any of you, because the path that follows with us will be the one that you will follow with others. And while the media and half of this House actively legitimise fascism and the other half passively legitimise it, future meetings of this Parliament must be held in prison, in a concentration camp or in a mass grave. So I want to address the Spanish parties that consider themselves progressive. If in the future Spain collects the fascist harvest that is sowing today, Catalans and Catalans do not wait for us at their side saying that defending Madrid is defending Catalonia. Our anti-fascist struggle is and will be to make us independent of a Spain in which from the media and political parties, fascism is cultivated and legitimized daily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u240	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Communo Podemos - Galicia in Communo, Mr Honrubia Hurtado has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u241	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, VOX presented us with a motion basically with three main demands: the first, illegalizing parties; the second, ending the state of autonomy; and the third, hardening the Criminal Code to put in prison anyone who considers the regime to be disaffected. Furthermore, when we come up to this rostrum, we present our arguments, we say and we describe exactly what they are proposing, which is a totalitarian measure, a measure that attacks any minimum expression of a democratic society worthy of that name, they get angry, they beat themselves up, they get mad and, in the end, it is clear that they want us imprisoned, they want us illegalized, and, in the meantime, in case they want us silent, and at this point the truth is that I remember Congressman Labordeta. I share with Mr Botran that when you read the motion, you obviously remember speeches that have been given in the past, as can be the speeches that you have quoted from the fascist Franco. I also remembered the speeches that, for example, Mr Blas Piñar gave in this House in the 1979 parliamentary term. Indeed, I was reviewing some of them and they were saying, word for word, some of the things that VOX defends in this motion. He spoke that Spain could not be a juxtaposition of regions, that with the statutes of autonomy of course it was going to end solidarity between the regions of Spain, denied the existence of nationalities, in line with what Mr Matute said about why they do not quote them - because, obviously, they do not believe in them -. It is an old-fashioned debate, and they, when they speak in those terms, simply remain stuck in that period. These claims that they have expressed at the beginning are exactly the same as those of these Francoist groups, which were against regime change and then were against autonomous development and political freedoms and which, fortunately, were not of great importance at the time, at least institutionally, although they were on the street, as we know, with the massacres and violence with which they were used. Moreover, as has also been said, they are quite hypocritical, because they claim to defend the Constitution, but there are a lot of constitutional assumptions, both at the level of the constitutional text and of judgments that have already been cited here, that are failing: article 6, on the role of political parties; full Title VIII; article 148, on the competences of the autonomous communities; the sentences that have been cited, in which it is alluded to that Spanish democracy is not a militant democracy; the sentences that limit the capacity of the state legislator to intervene in the division of competences between the State and the autonomous communities, etc. In short, they are attacking anything that has to do with political freedoms and they are attacking anything that has to do with a democratic system - I say again - worthy of that name. But I also say, in line with what Mr Bal said, that you should be careful because perhaps you are playing with fire. Perhaps you are playing with fire because, for starters, I think it is very clear that you are lucky that this is not a militant democracy, because, if it were, after presenting a text like the one you have presented, from this very moment you would remain out of constitutional legality, because what you have presented is a clear and direct attack on that constitutional legality. And with regard to the law of parties, a law of dubious democratic quality, in the end we also know that it is a law that was used instrumentally at a certain time, with a very specific objective, but that has not been used, with legal rigour, to judge the actions of other political parties that exist in the current political life. But I believe that a party that has the hate speech that you express, that has the macho proclamations that you manifest, that legitimizes or justifies gender-based violence, when it does not whitewash it, that has all these kinds of behaviors and feigns hatred, should be very careful, in particular, with the application of Article 9.2(a) of this law, it will not be that in the end you end up as your comrades of Golden Dawn in Greece. So, careful with what you want and careful with what you propose, it will not be that in the end it is you who end up illegalized. And I'm done. I do not share what Mr. Bel said, I do not share that this is a slippers to dispute the vote; no, they really believe it. I remember very well an interview with Mr Ortega Smith in El Intermedio, when VOX was not yet a party with institutional representation, where they practically wanted to mock him, and he said exactly the same things he said today, so I would be careful, because if these people ever get to the government he's going to do exactly what he's saying. And that's everyone's job, that doesn't happen, because, if they can, they're going to do it: they imprison us, they're going to illegalize us, and we're going to have to end up in exile, in jail, or even dead. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u242	For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u243	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that this debate has become a crossroads of disqualifications, because we are facing a major debate. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about the foundations of our democracy, political pluralism, freedom of ideas and the functions and limits of political parties, which are a key part of our constitutional architecture. Look, I've remembered it once. I had the honour of being rapporteur of the party law in 2002, a law that gave the parties the greatest possible space of freedom, following the integrative spirit of the constituent, establishing that in Spain any idea could be defended, but not by any method: only through the democratic method, by peaceful means, respecting the law and excluding all forms of violence. And this led to the illegalization of Batasuna. And that was not an act of repression, as you gentlemen of Bildu often say, but an act of justice, because it was shown that Batasuna was not a party, but the political arm of a terrorist organization, which Mr Letamendía belonged to, Mr Matute. Here are your freedom and democracy lessons, none. [[Applauds]] And, since it was an act of justice, that decision to illegalize Batasuna was endorsed by both the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights in judgments that I remind you are binding. And what does that doctrine of the Constitutional Court remind us of? First, that pluralism is a supreme value in democracy, that there is no democracy without pluralism; second, that our democracy is a tolerant democracy, that ideologies are free and that it is the illegal or violent means that are prohibited in our system, and, lastly - it has already been reiterated - that our democracy is not a militant democracy, which means that there is no duty of ideological adherence to the content of our Constitution, unlike other European constitutions that do have armored part of its foundations and precepts; ours, no. That is why, Mr de VOX, Mr Ortega, you know very well that your claim to illegalize the independence forces of this House for the mere fact of being so by amending the party law runs counter to our Constitution and the doctrine of the Constitutional Court in a number of judgments, including judgment 48/2003. [[Applauds]] That claim would be as unconstitutional as if someone wanted to illegalize you - you have already heard it - for example, because they are against the state of autonomy. They do not lack suitors in this House. But to prevent it is our Constitution, which is the great umbrella for all, so that no one can illegalize the letter to any party for its ideas, however annoying or disturbing it may seem to you, Mr Ortega, or to me. Should the secessionist parties be politically combated? Of course I do. What is required of them to comply with the law? Of course. What's to be done to defeat them? Of course, but in the ballot box, and there are many arguments for it. Never violating the Constitution, as you have asked us. By the way, after listening to him, I don't know why they want to run for autonomous elections if they don't believe in the territorial model, a model that has been a key factor in the progress that Spain has had in recent decades, a model that can't be called a failure just because some autonomous government challenges the law and behaves unfairly with the state. Or is education a problem in Madrid, Castile and León, La Rioja or Extremadura? Or did the Autonomous Communities not demonstrate their effectiveness, thanks to the magnificent health professionals we have, when the Spanish Government washed its hands and endorsed their management and response to the pandemic? No, ladies and gentlemen, our territorial model is not a failure, it is a good model. It is only necessary for some to comply with the principle of institutional loyalty and to manage their competences in favour of citizens, and not against the State. Does this require further strengthening of our rule of law? Of course. What must be vigilant in case any political force insists on the systematic and permanent violation of the democratic method in order to achieve its objectives? Well, too. But in that case it would not be necessary to modify the law of parties, it would be enough to apply. Should the crime of illegal convening of a referendum be recuperated? Look, so much in agreement with you that it is a commitment of the People's Party; of course, the road contrary to what you are doing with your continuous and unworthy divestments to the independenceists, with whom, in addition to supporting the Republican Left Government of Catalonia, we fear that you may be able to accept a call for a consultation that may jeopardize our territorial integrity. [[pointing out the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] And we warn you one thing: we are not going to look elsewhere, we are never going to accept that dialogue becomes an alternative to law enforcement. Faced with that - and with this I conclude - they will continue to face us, defending what we have always done: the unity of Spain, the unique sovereignty, the enforcement of the law, the equality of rights and solidarity between Spaniards.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u244	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u245	That is the Spain of freedom and harmony in which we believe, that is the constitutional Spain that we will always defend. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u246	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Zaragoza Alonso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u247	Gentlemen of the PP, to whom two referendums were made came to you; to us, none. So, the clear things. [[Applauds]] Secondly, 9N and 1 October, you consented and that is why we have the problem here today. [[Applauds]] But the truth is, I turn the script. When we see Mr Ortega-Smith coming here to ask the same thing as the independenceists, a referendum, we answer the same thing as the independenceists: no, there is not going to be a referendum. [[Applauds]] Neither yours nor theirs. [[Applauds]] And the rematch is when it comes to asking us to remove Members from empty Spain, that the Members of Soria represent worse than the Members of Madrid. What did you think? These Members of Parliament of Soria have the same right to represent their citizens as the gentlemen of Madrid. [[Applauds]] It is that when you go up to the rostrum you get drunk with chauvinist slogans, exalted slogans, cheap patriotism and hate speech. [[A Member of Parliament: Hala, hala!]] They bring us here a motion that is but another demonstration of their intolerance, of their rejection of the different, of going against those who do not think the same as you. They bring here a proposal to repeal the Constitution, just as they tried to do independence in the plenary sessions of 6 and 7 September 2017, the same. 'Pa' pissing and not dripping is what you do! [[Rumors]] They're his best allies. This proposal removes the gap, because it is a referendum to repeal the Constitution, to repeal its article 1, political pluralism; its article 3, languages; its article 6, political parties; its article 14, equality before the law; its article 16, ideological freedom, and its article 20, freedom of expression. It is an attack on our Constitution, it is an attack on Spain and its democracy. There's the reason why you didn't vote for the Constitution, for all these articles. [[Applauds]] Their defachation is clearly neo-rancist, but the Democrats no longer weep, the Democrats legislate. [[Applauds]] While you say this is a dictatorship, Spain is on the list of the full democracies of the world. And if it hasn't gone any further, it's because the People's Party is blocking justice. Moreover, if this were a dictatorship, you would be the first to applaud. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you do not believe that the conflict in Catalonia can be resolved, you have no confidence or hope. That is why they settle in their trenches, in going against what they think differently, in continually beating democracy, because democracy is coexistence and tolerance, and today in Catalonia coexistence and tolerance are recovering. Today Catalonia has become normal. And it has not been thanks to his speech of hatred or the inaction of the People's Party, it has been thanks to the socialists, that we have put the coexistence of the Spaniards ahead of any partisan interest. And it's just that you don't care about the interests of the Spaniards. They say they support the workers, but they want to take away their right to strike. They say they support women, but they want them silently. They say they support families, but they would eliminate the minimum wage. They say they protect the self-employed, but they want to privatize health care. They say they want to go back to compulsory military service, while their leader hasn't done the militia. They claim to protect young people, but it would suppress public education. They say they're against the referendum, and they bring us another referendum. [[Applauds]] Mr Espinosa de los Monteros says you are the real Spain. For real Spain, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, pays its bills. You are not real Spain, it is past Spain, the one that only dawns to resort to advances in rights and announce motions of censure that take months to register. By the way, speaking of the motion of censure, Mr.Abascal: So Trasquilado came out of his previous motion of censure that you dare not come forward? The far right is a coward! How bad are they in their ranks that they haven't found any candidates? Didn't anyone else think of that? Mrs. Olona, for example? [[Applauds]] Call her, see if she gets him. [[Laughter and applause]] Everything points to the sluggishness, the frustrated vanity of Tamames, who makes the game for them and passes to the dark side of the dictator's heirs. Numbers don't even give in their best dreams! Well, they always have Feijoo. They only serve the same purpose as citizens, to elect mayors and presidents of the PP, but cheaper. What do you want me to tell them? After their normalization, insult and lies, few things surprise us. You are the party of hate and fear...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u248	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u249	And in the face of hatred and fear, we are the socialists, the ones who are committed to equality, rights and coexistence. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-08-CD230208.u250	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that our Rules of Procedure specifically state that this Presidency must repress those offensive concepts which are expressed among the various political groups. I already told them in the November 23rd session what those concepts were that I was not going to accept while presiding. I would also like to remind you of the Constitutional Court's ruling, which says that this Presidency must not enter into the veracity or not the veracity of the terms used, but rather in the desire to offend and attack. For this reason, I will withdraw from the Journal of Sessions the qualifications given by the spokesman for VOX and by the spokesman for the CUP. Thank you very much. The meeting was suspended. It was two and thirty minutes in the afternoon.
