ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall proceed to the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution, in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Juan Bernardo Fuentes Curbelo, he asked Don José Francisco Duque Morán if he swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u2	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u3	Don José Francisco Duque Morán has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u4	In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude item 26, which corresponds to the urgent inquiry of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u5	We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the debate on the proposal for a law of the Republican Parliamentary Group on comprehensive regulation of cannabis. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u6	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. You all know someone who's ever used cannabis, maybe you're yourself, maybe you're your children, maybe you're a friend. You all know someone who has been addicted to cannabis, closer or farther away, but we all know more or less serious cases. Some of you will meet someone who has ever worked as a camel. Some will know them, but they will not be aware of it. The use of cannabis, Members of Parliament, has been, is and will be a reality, even though some intend to hide it under the carpet, even though they want to avoid the debate, even though they intend that this does not go with you or your own, even though they know that you are lying to yourselves. Pay attention to some data. Drug trafficking arrests have increased by 30% between 2006 and 2020, of which almost half are due to cannabis. The trafficking of marijuana is the third criminal activity in the Spanish State, behind the trafficking of hashish and cocaine. In 2020, approximately 3,800 arrests were made for cultivation and trafficking of cannabis plants. The Spanish State triples the Netherlands in the seizure of plants. Three out of every hundred students between the ages of fourteen and eighteen - that is, minors - have problematic cannabis use. Cannabis use is a clear reality and will not cease to be so as to put on a paper that this does not exist or should not exist. By the way, it is a reality with a special impact on the popular classes. Denying it, banning it, covering your eyes and ears won't make cannabis use go away. They know perfectly well that when there is no law, the law of the jungle is imposed, the law of the jungle is imposed, insecurity is imposed. There are precedents in relation to prohibitionism, and you know them. We could recall the dry law in the 1920s in the United States, which served some to enrich themselves indecently by selling adulterated alcohol and generally of very poor quality. All this, without the state going to tax a dollar, while the mafias watched their profits go off, with a worrying increase in sales, consumption and crime. Remember this every time you have the tendency to argue that regulation encourages consumption. This is what exists in the Spanish State today, a deregulation or, rather, a prohibitionism, which, since 1967 - in full frankness - has so far involved only more consumption, less quality, more addiction and more mafias. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our primary duty to regulate those aspects of society that, if they are not regulated, cause discontrol and insecurity, even though they are uncomfortable issues. And that is what we are proposing today, no more or less, to regulate the unregulated, to control the uncontrolled, to provide security to insecurity, and to do so with the empirical evidence that exists, alongside science, health and, above all, public health. Today we propose a comprehensive regulation of cannabis that will end the current prohibitionism, which has already demonstrated its ineffectiveness. We make them a proposal with the intention of getting less consumption, more control, less addiction and less mafia, and we even go a little further. In addition to reversing the effects of prohibitionism, we make them a proposal whose objectives are also more transparency, secure access, control of the age of majority, destigmatization, attribution of associated activities, an end to the legal insecurity of cannabic associations, better and greater prevention of addictions, and a significant reduction in the submerged economy, which must, of course, involve more public resources, resources for citizenship. We present this proposal with a mandate from the Parliament of Catalonia, with a mandate from the citizens of Catalonia, who, after collecting signatures to register an ILP, approved a law regulating the cannabis associations; a law regulating the consumption, cultivation and transport of cannabis; a law that... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u8	Thank you, President. ... intended to find a margin of legality, regulation, control, in a prohibited context; a law that was passed in 2017, with 118 votes in favour, including also the votes of the Partit dels Socialistes De Catalunya; a law that, like so many other progressive laws adopted in Catalonia, was laid down by the Constitutional Court. With this mandate, with the support of Catalan citizens, associations and institutions, we accept the challenge of drafting a bill that would allow the Catalan Parliament to legislate in accordance with the majority view of Catalan citizens and that would leave the door open to all institutions that wish to be able to fix it from their autonomy. And that is what we have done and what we are presenting to you today: a proposal worked with the organizations of the sector - to which we thank with all our heart for their constant struggle -, which have even put their personal interests always aside in order to be able to continue to fight for the regulation of cannabis, and which today accompany us - thanks very much - coordinated from different levels of competition, with the will to have a Catalan law of their own; a proposal in which, as I said, we put public health at the centre, in which to decriminalize cannabis, as different European states have already done. [[applause]] We consider cannabis a medicine, so citizenship that needs cannabis-based medical therapy will be able to access this substance in a pharmacy, provided it has a prescription. We put an end to the current situation in which they are forced to resort to illegal means of dealing with themselves. We promote safe access to cannabis for those citizens who want to make it a recreational use, focusing on the prevention and treatment of addictions, because it is not the same to consume without control or knowledge as to do it in a controlled way. In this recreational use we propose that cannabis can be accessed on a regulated basis, through individual or communal self-culture, i.e. through non-profit cannabic associations. We control the cannabis cycle, in order to end the mafia that has been profiting from this lack of regulation. We amend articles of the law gag, which by the way is slow to be repealed, and we sanction anything that is outside the law. We also define the legal limits of cultivation, transport, consumption and dispensation. And we regulate the process of cultivation, transportation, possession, consumption, marketing, dispensation and prevention of addictions. Let me therefore deny some of the noises and also explain to you what this proposal does not do. This proposal does not encourage consumption; in fact, it aims to reduce it. It does not legalize the advertising of marijuana or pots; in fact, it prohibits it. It does not legalize drug trafficking; in fact, as far as cannabis is concerned, it practically makes it impossible. It does not allow people to smoke or use drugs everywhere; in fact, what it does is clearly delineate. By the way, it is a proposal that is worked out, negotiated and thought by people who have been studying this problem for many years, such as entities, health professionals, lawyers, etc., but ultimately it is a proposal. A proposal to be discussed and negotiated. A proposal that expects counterproposals from those groups that have registered initiatives in a similar line, to which we also appreciate their involvement, and from those who want to make nuances from their ideological perspective. They're all invited to debate. For this there are parliaments. They will wonder why now, yes we already discussed a bill on the same issue a year and a half ago. For the answer is very simple: because it is still a necessity that has not dared to approve the Administration; because it is no longer worth the excuse of the medical and therapeutic cannabis subcommission, whose recommendations are not even being implemented; because we still have enough time to open a debate of amendments on this; because this was again requested last week by the Parliament of Catalonia, and because this should be the legislature of the left, and despite the fact that the PSOE has already shown on several occasions that the left has no place either in this state or in its party, some groups define ourselves as being foolish. We'll repeat it as many times as it takes. If the PSOE today approves this law, as it has done in autonomous parliaments, the current majority are in favour of the regulation of cannabis. And we know that it is better to promote this decriminalization on the left, with public policies promoted for the general benefit of citizens, than to do so on the right, with policies driven by and by economic lobbies. We know that sooner or later there will be a regulation, there is no doubt about it. The only doubt here is when and who will promote it. Ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, allow me to refer to you today. This decision again depends on your votes. Again on you depends on the security of the citizenry, on you depends on the regulation of cannabis. They're in time to rectify, we're giving them another chance today. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rosique. Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. For the second time in this XIV Legislature, the legalization of cannabis is promoted, a substance that, despite irresponsible praise for its properties, is a drug that enslaves, destroys and kills. Please don't wake people. Cannabis use, like all drugs, enslaves, destroys and kills. Therefore, in support of public health, I trust that the strong rejection of this pseudo-legislative threat that would open the doors to society to start in the hell of narcotics will be reiterated. It would be a historic failure that the immense social concern over which the creation of the Joint Commission for the Study of Addiction Problems in the General Courts of more than thirty years ago led us to conclude today in the face of the crazy effort to regularize cannabis use. It will not, of course, be with my vote. Mrs Rosique, in the presentation of this bill you have not explained that the subcommittee created here to analyze experiences of this drug for medicinal use has drawn conclusions that maintain broad limitations as a therapeutic remedy. However, you and other supporters of the legalization of marijuana, hashish and other variants of this psychotropic invoke that it is a matter of public health, but paradoxically hide and make up the severe damage it causes in the central nervous system, even more so in that of those adolescents who succumb to their consumption and enter the addiction circle, prelude to the escalation towards other substances. The colocons are prone to psychological, psychiatric, psychotic outbreaks and schizophrenia, as well as to depression or anxiety, among other pathologies, not to mention irreversible destruction in the family and social sphere. Ladies and gentlemen, the EDADES 22 survey has just been published, which fully analyses developments in alcohol and other drugs in Spain. Referring to cannabis, the study warns about the growing risk of problematic consumption among our young people. Before promoting senseless regulatory changes, its promoters should read these reports and also assess the diversion of resources for hospital care from complex consumption-related pathologies or visits to one of the centres where people trying to abandon the tragedy of drug addiction are helped. He concluded by pointing out that it is bluntly false that cannabis use is safe and even beneficial. Consideration of this initiative would mean a reversal of colossal dimensions, which would culminate in any prevention policy, which is to which good governance should be applied, rather than trivializing cannabis, promoting the business of the dangerous psychoactive substance THC and enshrining drug use in the State's Official Gazette itself. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u12	Thank you, President. With the issue of cannabis, we are again faced with a subject that in Catalonia enjoys a broad consensus, but that the lack of sovereignty makes it impossible for us to move forward and yet Spain does not or does not allow us to do so. In June 2017 a law on cannabic clubs was passed, promoted by the popular legislative initiative La Rosa Verda, which obtained 67,500 signatures, and there was virtually unanimity, with 118 votes in favour of Junts pel Si, Citizens, PPCataluya in Comú and CUP, and only 8 votes against the People's Party. My colleague Sergi Saladié then advanced that this law would only be possible if we achieved independence and, indeed, the law was suspended after three months by the Constitutional, resolving an appeal submitted by the Spanish Government, then in the hands of the People's Party. On Thursday last week, again in the Parliament of Catalonia, a resolution was adopted by a significant majority of Esquerra, Junts, CUP, Communes and Citizens, which affirmed the need to legislate on a part of what we are debating today. In its point 11 it said: The PSC at this point abstained by the same mechanism that makes them promise when they are in opposition to repeal the gags and labor reforms, but, once in the government, they tell us that it does not touch now. [[Continues your intervention in Catalan]] On cannabis, as, in general, on drugs, hypocrisy and double morality reign, imposing a non-metic ban, which is a greater risk to public health than its regulation. There will probably be arguments today that link cannabis with psychological disorders or even crime, confusing what the root causes are with risk factors. Mental health disorders often have social causes, such as loneliness or anxiety arising from social pressure. Don't blame the bastards for the problems caused by the system. Moreover, prohibitionism is often the screen of double morality, and the best test is to compare everything that is said today about cannabis with what is not said about alcohol, a substance that virtually all peoples of the world have been using for thousands of years for the same recreational and disinhibiting purpose as cannabis, which is also a risk factor for certain behaviors, which can be depressive, but whose access is regulated. This is the double moral of the post-Franquist right-wingers, who perhaps also ignore that the first importers of grifa were the thirds of the Legion based in Morocco and the regular troops who fought on the side of the uprisings on July 18, 1936. Unfortunately, this law will not prosper, nor will it allow Catalonia, the Catalan countries, to move forward with what creates broad social consensus in our country. So, I only have to finish as my partner Saladié did: Visca Catalunya lliure and cannabica! Thank you very much. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. For the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo Undiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u14	Pick it up on. Good afternoon. We, our group, support the initiative of Esquerra Republicana to launch this new framework, a framework that comes to regularize and decriminalize the use of cannabis. This does not mean trivializing the use or trivializing the possible consequences of the use of any kind of drug, but rather rationalizing the issue. It is high time for clear regulations on the production and consumption of cannabis, both for therapeutic and recreational use. The current situation of allegation, illegality and prohibition is not reception. That is why we believe that this proposal is still timely and also necessary. It is high time that we could address this issue and give it a logical, orderly and democratic solution. The maintenance of the current situation is unacceptable. To continue as we are today is to maintain a fundamentally unjust situation; to continue as we are so far means discontrol, neglect, insecurity, marginalization, repression, submerged economy and illegality. It is a situation that has been generated by a ban on marketing for its consumption, according to Law 17/1967, and a ban on street consumption, according to Organic Law 4/2015. Private consumption is not prohibited, but it is in a situation of alleged discrimination. Consumption and shared production are on the sidelines of the police and judges on duty, and therefore we find ourselves in this situation of total uncertainty affecting consumers, institutions, police forces and the judiciary. An uncertain situation that comes to strengthen a black market, illegal sales networks, as well as creating a cover for the market for other substances. It is a situation of uncertainty which, in addition, particularly affects the social associations of cannabis. These associations-clubs, in addition to being dedicated to the study, establish systems of cultivation and distribution for the consumption of people. In this regard, let me highlight these associations, which develop more responsible consumption patterns than the one that creates the black market, which create responsible markets, as well as self-control, and which create control precisely in order not to reach those most vulnerable profiles, which we are hearing about at the moment. In recent years, we have been witnessing the most arbitrary actions by the police and the courts, leading the Supreme Court to give sentences for trafficking offences to those responsible for these shared crops; sentences that expressly question the possibility of applying the doctrine of shared consumption, thus criminalizing associations. I insist that the management of this uncertainty cannot be left to the attention of the relevant police force or the judge. The autonomous governments of Navarre, Euskadi and Catalonia have tried to legislate in this respect, but they have not been left behind. The Constitutional Court has ruled that it is not autonomous jurisdiction and that these laws are unconstitutional. This should not be the case because public health issues belong to these governments, and the issue we are dealing with should not be a matter of public order, but of public health and therefore of the competence of these governments. But, having passed in these rulings of the Constitutional Court, of the courts, which is not the competence of the autonomous communities, it is necessary for this Congress to follow the example given by these autonomous communities and offer a regulation that helps to clarify this legal situation of uncertainty in which production, consumption and, more specifically, self-consumption associations are found. The regulations governing the production and consumption of cannabis, both therapeutic and recreational use, can also have a basic, very interesting starting point: the experience of all these years by these associations. We do not start from scratch, we already have experiences from which we can regulate and regulate. To you, to the PSOE bench, I ask you to react and not continue with the current inertia. They have to react to the immobilised paralysis to which the right-wing duo led by the People's Party and by VOX is subject; I ask them to react to this immobilised policy to which they are subjecting themselves from different institutions and from different apparatuses of the State. We must also react to this issue, in this area of cannabis. We have to move forward, we have to take steps. So society demands it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u15	Thank you very much, Mr Ruiz de Pinedo. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u16	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Mrs Rosique, indeed, reality exists, is on the street; unless someone wants to turn their backs or deny reality, that reality exists and, therefore, there is also a demand to regulate that reality. Indeed, legal uncertainty exists, because often there is arbitrariness in the interpretation of the different aspects that are already regulated, and that leads to legal uncertainty. Indeed, there are problems with the early use of cannabis, there are problems with the excessive use of cannabis, and that reality exists. Indeed, there is a black market. Indeed, there is a submerged economy. Indeed, regulation does not encourage consumption, but it sorts out the different areas. Mr Martínez, it is true that early use and excessive use of cannabis have side effects and that cannabis use is not harmless, and perhaps it would be an interesting exercise to see all those people in rehabilitation centres, but we also have to bear in mind that all those people have arrived at those centres before regulation, and there is no regulation. Therefore, it cannot be said that this is the reason behind this reality. It is also true that a year and a half ago our parliamentary group promoted the creation of a subcommission that will analyse different experiences in regulating medicinal cannabis. This work was done, that work ended at the end of June, and among the measures and recommendations that we have promoted since the subcommission we asked the Government to put forward a road map to see what the feasibility was and how those recommendations that by a majority agreement we had included are incorporated into the legislation. That deadline ended in December. Today is 21 February, two months have passed and we find that we have nothing. Last week, our parliamentary group recorded a written question in which we asked: what work and progress has the Spanish Agency for Medicines and Sanitary Products done to give feasibility and compliance with the regulations to the recommendations of the subcommittee created in order to analyze the experiences of regulation of medicinal cannabis approved by this Congress? We are and have historically always been advocates of the comprehensive regulation of cannabis, because we believe that turning our backs on all these realities that have manifested themselves and that exist does not lead us anywhere, it is not progressing in positive. We are also advocates of not mixing different debates that can confuse and we are also advocates in the Basque Group of moving forward step by step, adopting different measures from a pragmatic perspective. [[EAJ-PNV]] There may be someone to whom it may seem that they are not enough, but thanks to those measures that our group is defending, in line with the policy of harm reduction and not a prohibitionist policy in the field of drugs, very important measures have historically been taken. At the time - I always refer to them because of how important they were for Basque society - the exchange of syringes through an NGO and then in Basauri prison the facilitation of methadone to people who were consumers of heroin in centers and places that were hygienically conditioned for them to do so in safety and public health conditions. In 2016, a law on addictions was passed in the Basque Parliament, including an article that said that we had to move forward and that there was a need to move forward in the regulation of social clubs for cannabis users. We create this subcommission, we have some recommendations and we will continue to insist that they arrive at a good place, and we think that now we can also make progress in an analysis and in a reflection on the comprehensive regulation of cannabis. We were critical and critical when we found that at the same time, three bills had been tabled in Congress and another bill in the Senate. In our view, this number of legislative proposals without having previously approximated positions between groups that may have a closer position is not effective, but can lead to confusion in the debate on this issue. Anyway, we understand it may be time. Our group will vote in favour of taking this bill into consideration. If we move forward, perhaps we will have the opportunity to bring into dialogue all these different legislative proposals that the various parliamentary groups have put forward. We want, one, to put as much as possible to protect public health. We always say that we must not stigmatize, that we must destigmatize. Mr Ruiz de Pinedo was also talking about not trivializing the debate; we cannot trivialise or stigmatise or trivialise. Cannabis use is not harmless, it has to be present continuously, but with rigor, serenity and discretion we believe that we can have the opportunity to move forward in an area that exists on the street, indeed, and also society is demanding that we regulate different aspects. Therefore, in order to avoid such legal insecurity, to ensure that consumption develops under optimal health conditions, from a public health perspective, to regulate these black markets, to avoid such legal insecurity and street insecurity, we insist, our vote will be favourable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u18	Thank you, President. There are in these seats, spread throughout the Chamber, many self-proclaimed liberals. Liberal contains the suffix -- al -, which indicates relationship or belonging. A liberal is someone who has a relationship or belonging to the free adjective, someone committed to freedom, and today is a good day to know who of these self-proclaimed liberals are. Today we will vote whether we are in favour of or against comprehensively regulating cannabis. Today we will see who is liberal and who uses the word as perfume or as an ornamental element. In Spain cannabis is used very often and by many people. Right now the Spanish legislators are acting like they don't see this situation; they prefer not to touch it, not to look at it, to leave it in the pleading, to leave the cannabis market in the hands of the mafias and therapeutic cannabis in a drawer, even though a subcommission has already recommended regular. The reality is that if we want to ban hypocrisy, given the fact that cannabis use exists, we must choose to fix it or prohibit it. My parliamentary group, which is liberal, votes for freedom, votes for individual freedom, votes for guarantees, votes for information and we are going to vote for the regulation of the cannabis market. Citizens vote in favour of the individual and his freedom. We will vote in favour of regulating cannabis because we know representatives of the Spanish, not their guardians. Here we are surrounded by politicians who believe they have voted to protect people. Here are politicians who say who you can marry who you can't marry and what a marriage is or isn't. In Citizens we also advocate same-sex marriage, because we are liberal. Here are politicians who tell people what are the accepted and which are not; natural family, we have come to hear from someone who sure as hell wasn't an anthropologist. In Citizens we defend all family models because we are liberal. Here are politicians and ministers who tell people whether to watch porn or not and what to say, and now they want to tell you whether to wear a bra or not. In Citizens we defend education in respect and values that is transmitted from parents to children, not from ministers of Podemos to children, because we are liberal. Here there are many politicians who want to ban an adult person from freely having sex with another adult person and freely in exchange for money. It doesn't get in their heads that what happens between two adults with the consent of two adults is a thing of those two adults. In Citizens we defend the regulation of prostitution because we are liberal. There are politicians here who tell you you can't have an abortion, the same ones who told you yesterday and were going to have an abortion in London. In Citizens we defend the law of abortion because we are liberal. There are politicians here who tell you that even if you have incurable illness and unbearable suffering, you are forced to live in suffering. In Citizens we defend the right to euthanasia because we are liberal. Here, too, there are politicians who tell you that you can't choose the school to take your children to, that everyone has to be public and no concerts. In Citizens we defend the choice of parents because we are liberal. Here are politicians who also tell you in which language to speak, study or examine you; they talk about linguistic rights. In Citizens we know that the rights are of the people, that they are not of the languages, because we are liberal. And watch out! Be careful because this is said by many politicians that I have here in front of me. They tell a woman to freeze her eggs before she undergoes a cancer treatment that she can't expect in the future, because although science and medicine allow it, morals on the left and right, on the face and retrograde, want to ban her from surrogate pregnancy. Citizens are the only group in this Chamber that supports surrogate pregnancy because we are the only group of liberals. [[Applauds]] All of you, all of you, believe that the Spaniards need tutelage; we don't. For example, we know that the consumption of alcohol and tobacco is not healthy, it is not good, but it is not and should not be prohibited. What is done is that it is obliged to report, it is taxed, it is prohibited to sell to minors, but it is not prohibited to sell or consume, it is regulated. And if we do this with alcohol and tobacco, why not cannabis? We have evidence of how organized crime descends, and we also know that its quality is guaranteed and adulterations that do much harm to health are avoided. There have been episodes in the past about the effect of banning something society demands. There's the dry law in the United States and everything it generated. However, and although it is a mistake, I respect those who propose to ban cannabis use more than those who prefer to continue looking elsewhere, because this situation cannot be legal, can be legal or illegal. Be brave and, at least, if you are not able to vote in favour of regulation today, raise your ban. Or do they perhaps know that there is a large part of Spanish society that agrees with the regulation of cannabis consumption and cultivation? Or is it that he weighs more his hypocrisy than his principles? Because there are many here who are against abortion, but they abort. There are many here who are against porn, but they see porn. Many around here want to abolish prostitution, but their partners were going, and today we know that they are still going, with prostitutes. Many around here are against euthanasia, but when they see inhumane suffering for a loved one they want to end their agony and they would like to have euthanasia. I have heard you say that there will be overdose if cannabis use is regulated. I ask you, how many of you have smoked pigs? Or I'm going to ask it in a much simpler way, because we're done before: how many of you haven't smoked pigs? [[A Member of Parliament: A servant!]] Lie. [[Laughter and applause]] Lie. Gentlemen, if you are sincere, you will know that the only possible overdose by voting today against the regulation of cannabis is the overdose of hypocrisy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Cañadell Salvia.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u20	Thank you, President. At the end of June last year, the Health Commission completed the work of the Sub-Commission established with the aim of analysing the regulatory experience of cannabis for medicinal use. One of the recommendations contained in the report of conclusions was that within six months the Spanish Medicines Agency had to carry out the necessary work to develop the regulations that would make it possible to dispose of standardized cannabis extracts or preparations on the pharmaceutical market. Six months later, we have no news of it. The various groups present at the Sub-Commission did the work and a regulation is now being blocked that the vast majority of countries in our environment already have covered in their legal framework. A completely different debate is that of regulating recreational cannabis. We believe that something we are not doing entirely well when the Spanish state has a prohibitive regulation regarding cannabis use, but leads the European consumer rankings for this substance. It is a debate that needs to be addressed. There may be many kinds of regulations; what is certain is that any regulation will be better than what is now: a kind of legal limbo where consumption and cultivation for self-consumption is not a crime, but the decision about when it is self-consumption and when it is not is arbitrary, thus producing legal uncertainty. In addition, many municipalities and autonomous communities governed by different parties represented in this Chamber seek legal loopholes to allow cannabic associations. The Mossos d'Esquadra argue that a new strategy is needed to deal with marijuana trafficking, often controlled by especially violent mafias. In his view, regulation could be a way. In 2012, about 2,000 people were arrested; 662 plantations were dismantled and about 9 tons of this substance was involved. First, the regulation of therapeutic cannabis should be addressed. From our point of view, the priority is to resolve the situation of thousands of patients, and we call on the Ministry of Health to comply with the recommendations we adopted in the Sub-Commission on Study. We will be voting in favour of taking into account this Republican Left bill to allow the debate on this matter once and for all and with the aim of presenting amendments to different points, if it comes to process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u21	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Illamola Dausà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u22	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. The issue before us today is not simple, it is polyhedral. We found defenders and detractors, and we found multiple arguments. I am going to highlight, without being able to get into the bottom of the matter, of course, just a few aspects. We're back to the same old thing. Some progress because they detect problems and want to prevent and solve them, and the Constitutional Court stops them by arguing that they have no competence; and as neither the legislator nor the Spanish Government has done anything about it, we are all left with nothing. Because, following the criteria set out in 2015 by the Department of Salut, regulations were adopted in various Catalan municipalities in relation to the cannabic associations, social clubs and the exercise of their activity. In addition, the Parliament of Catalonia, from the perspective of public health, adopted several resolutions culminating in the adoption of Law 13/2017, which has already been mentioned, on associations of cannabis users. Laws in the same area were also adopted in Navarre and the Basque Country, as has been said. But this progress cannot be implemented thanks - it has also been said - to the Constitutional Court and to the fact that whoever says he has jurisdiction has not legislated. That's why we're here again today. I find nothing new if I tell you that respect for competences is a nuclear issue for Junts per Catalunya. That is why it has been difficult for us to see that the bill has a title dedicated to this, because the use of cannabis is closely related to health, a competence of the Generalitat de Catalunya. I am surprised, however - I must say - at the optimism in the explanatory statement of the proposal for a law, because they say: foresight of future changes that go in the direction of deepening government decentralization. I wish; sincerely, I wish, but I believe, companions, that this decentralization will only take place... [[continue your intervention in Catalan]] Because I have recently observed many centralizations, both direct and indirect. In our society there are practices that are part of our day-to-day life, such as alcohol, tobacco or gambling, that can lead to addictions, and when they do, they can destroy the lives of both the addict and her friends or their families. Cannabis is a drug, we must not forget it, and as such creates addiction. Apart from these therapeutic uses, several studies show that sporadic or chronic consumption has harmful health consequences, leading to altered brain structure and function. Measures to combat addictions are necessary, but also - or even more - preventive measures to prevent them from appearing, and truthful information is essential. And it is true the problem of the mafias, which has also been said. These exist, the illicit market is a reality and its environment creates serious problems that cannot be obviated. The current situation, regulation or non-regulation with regard to cannabis has not been proven to be efficient. That is why it is all the more important to try with a new system that we hope will be more effective. We will support the consideration, without this conditioning or assuming the final vote on the text that will eventually be submitted for adoption. Our position will be consistent with that of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group a few days ago in the Catalonian Parliament, in the debate on the motion for a resolution adopted on cannabis consumer associations, which has also been mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u23	Thank you very much, Mrs. Illamola. Mrs Muñoz Dalda has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u24	Thank you, President. We have to stand on the side of normality and do a realism exercise. Who said this sentence? The current Minister Miquel Iceta. It's better to order than to ban. Who said this sentence? Mr. Patxi López has to know why he said it. The case is that when we talk about the regulation of cannabis, we always witness an exercise of equilibrium by the different political groups. [[The Lord]] By focusing the debate, I think it is important to point out that we are talking about a plant. That we're talking about a plant that people smoke? Yeah. What's wrong with health? Yeah. That alcohol and tobacco is bad for health too? Well, too. That people make a medical use and a therapeutic use of this plant? It is also a reality, and I do not say this, as this House has already said; in fact, there is a mandate from this House to the government - which is not being fulfilled - to regulate medicinal cannabis. Can cannabis produce textile products, food products, building materials, biofuels, etc.? It's true, too. Moreover, it is a plant that grows on poor soils and is good for the land; however, the debate that is taking place here is part of the fact that cannabis is a drug, that drugs are bad and that therefore it must be banned. This is basically the argument against the regulation of cannabis, and I think it is a rather poor argument, because it is the same argument that the extreme right has to be against abortion: abortion is bad and therefore has to be banned. And make sure it's a pre-democratic logic. Do you know what year this country's narcotics law is? [[Rumors]] They weren't listening to Marta Rosique when she was talking, like they're not listening to me. It is 1967; the narcotics law of this country is a Francoist law. We could say that the ban has prevented people from using cannabis, but if one looks at the data, cannabis use in this country has not stopped increasing, access for minors to cannabis has not stopped increasing and the perception of the risk on cannabis has not stopped decreasing. Therefore, we can state that the prohibitionist approach in public policies to the regulation of cannabis is basically ineffective and is based on the persecution of users. Many are here today, there are representatives of civil society to whom I send a greeting - I see CatFAC, MEC, ConFac, Responsible Regulation -; welcome to the house of popular sovereignty. [[Applauds]] This is the social reality that exists in the country, there is a social demand that has a face. One of the main mechanisms the State has to deal with the problem of cannabis is the fines, the persecution of users by means of fines for possession or consumption on the public street - fines of at least 600 euros - which it does is to ruin the life of the person who has fined, especially if it cannot pay it, and to criminalize and stigmatize the users. I think this is a good time to look at the social reality we have and the data, because there are four million people in this country who consume cannabis annually; there are thousands of cannabic associations that in some autonomous communities have already been defined as risk prevention and harm reduction entities; there are thousands of grow shops; there are hundreds of websites and physical CBD sales shops; there are hundreds of seed banks and up to four trade fairs in this country, some with international recognition, and if not you will visit next month the Spannabis fair in Barcelona. But it is also that this social reality has had a translation at parliamentary level, both at state and autonomous level, many with the support of the Socialist Party itself. We talk about popular legislative initiatives in parliaments such as Navarre or Catalonia, parliamentary presentations in the Balearic Islands and in Euskadi when Patxi López was lehendakari, PNL in Cantabria, in the Canary Islands, in Extremadura, in the Valencian Community and up to four legislative proposals, one presented in the Senate and three in Congress. I believe that in addition to this social reality in our country, there is an international tendency towards regulation, and we are not talking about Uruguay, Canada or the regulations that are on the other side of the puddle, but at European level - and this is one of the arguments that we also often repeat a lot, that Europe does not leave us or that international conventions do not leave us - it is no longer Malta or Luxembourg that is regulating, but Germany, with a socialist president. I think it would be good, then, if we did not stand behind society and the international trend, but look at it from the front, because I believe that by denying reality and with purely moralistic positions, all we are doing is promoting Mafia practices. I believe that voting against this bill is to promote Mafia practices and stand against public health and freedom. We will therefore vote in favour, and if it succeeds in passing the procedure, we will improve it with amendments, because, as you know, we have a proposal that adds more things and I think we can also enrich the proposal. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u25	Thank you. Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u26	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We just heard this coming from Catalonia, from Parliament, and we just heard Mr Botran Pahissa scream 'Visca Catalunya liure and cannabica!'. Let's see if Mr. Marchena is going to be right and they weren't taught, but they were smoked. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the second attempt to legalize marijuana for recreational use; that is, as a drug. We're sure of three things. First, that the lobbies behind it will keep trying. Second, that the left, which leaves young people without work, wants them to forget their drug-based problems. And, third, that VOX will always oppose and we will face the dark interests that want to profit from the mental health of our young Spaniards. For this task, the sinister and the Basque and Catalan separatists combine with the worst of capitalism, big dope, big marijuana. They began in the subcommittee on the alleged medicinal use of cannabis. VOX cast its vote against. Reasons? They deliberately confuse the plant with its components. Secondly, it is not demonstrating the medicinal use of cannabis and its therapeutic effect. Thirdly, we have already stated that they claimed that the therapeutic use was the Trojan horse, so we see here, of regularization. The test is this proposition. Cannabis or marijuana is a drug of abuse, classified as narcotic - narcotic in English - in the 1961 Convention, in 1977 and 1988, and included in List I, which includes cannabis, its resin and dyes. And it is a drug of abuse not only because it produces addiction, but because of the numerous damages it inflicts, both mental and physical. Acutely: heart disease, myocardial infarction, cerebral infarction. Chronicly: mental deterioration, cognitive deterioration, verbal deterioration, lack of planning - which implies vital failure in adolescents - and depression. In addition, it increases the use of alcohol and other drugs, and increases the risk of schizophrenia from 2.3 to 4.7 times. But the worst thing - and I dedicate it to the absent Mr Errejón, absent - is that the risk of suicide increases by 50%. [[Applauds]] This proposal for a law, unlike that presented by Mr Errejón - who already told Mrs Muñoz that she had plagiarismed her from the cannabic clubs - is made in offices with noble woods, but misguided not only scientific truth, but legislation and legislative technique. With a typical cynicism of merchants, they justify their regularization because there are many consumers and therefore many drug addicts. Indeed, in Spain, about 600,000 a day. And, as there are many, you have to regularize your production, right? And so, they claim. For what? For something good? They don't explain it to us. They give us the same reasons that would help them to legalize prostitution: increase taxes. In fact, all the proposed law de facto recognizes the harmful effects of marijuana and its addictive power, but cynically they tell us that taxes extracted with its legalization will be used to avoid the problems of addiction. It's like legalizing the kalashnikovs and then putting up posters against the assault rifles. Only 28% of Spaniards believe it is very important to regularize marijuana to end its problem, 28%. In 2014 it was 40%. Osea, the number of Spaniards who believe that regularization is not the solution grows. In fact, regularization in California, Oregon, Washington, has increased the black market and consumption, and you know it. In Uruguay, which you set as an example, consumption has increased by 53%. In the meantime, the proposer says there is a situation of allegation. False. How do you say that if you want to throw away three laws, one of them organic; three royal decrees; two orders, and, for more scorn, nothing less than the Penal Code? Does the proposer ignore that, according to the principle of normative hierarchy, an ordinary law cannot contravene an organic law? Does it not know that, according to the Criminal Code, articles 368 to 373, cultivation, processing and any act that favours the consumption of marijuana is still a criminal offence? You don't know it or you don't know it? Not only do they ignore the conventions, they ignore that they are forcing the Spanish Medicines Agency to consider it a drug when the whole evolution of pharmacology is to isolate the active components and discard the harmful ones. [[Applauds]] We already have two medicines that have cannabidiol, which are used for spasms. That's the goal of pharmacology, not chewing grass. How is it explained so boldly, ladies and gentlemen? Easy. Although they say that cannabis clubs - nests of addicts present and future - are protagonists, this proposal has two beneficiaries: autonomy, which robs the state of taxation, and above all the industrial drug complex, the 'big marijuana' which, according to one of its CEO, will be pocketed in Europe 120 billion. According to Caulkins, enough money to buy many politicians and many experts. The consequences are that they will increase from 600,000 to one million users. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude. Do you really want to get this to your children? You're gonna look them in the face and you're gonna tell them that you approved it? We announce to you that we do not want that future for our children or for our grandchildren and that our position before any attempt, explicit or not, present or future, the legalization of marijuana or any kind of drugs will always and in any field be a frontal opposition, tireless and without cracks. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u27	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mr Carzo Hermoso.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u28	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. There are no good drugs and bad drugs, nor drugs are left-wing or right-wing; drugs are drugs and those who have been most attacked in the history of this country are the most disadvantaged classes. Ladies and gentlemen, these words are not mine, but were spoken by the spokesman for the Socialist Party, Mr Viondi, in the debate on a similar bill from the More Country Group which was debated in this House in October 2021. I never thought I would cite the Socialist Party as an argument of authority, but when Mr Sánchez's party says a truth, something that is not very common, it must be recognized, and Mr Viondi was absolutely right there. [[Applauds]] Because yes, ladies and gentlemen, the issue we are dealing with today at the beginning of this plenary session is the regulation of a drug, cannabis and its derivatives. It is, and is, reflected in the UN Convention on Narcotic Drugs. Mrs. Muñoz said it's a plant. It is a plant that is contained in the UN Convention on Narcotic Drugs. The lettuce is a plant, but it does not come out in the UN Convention on Narcotic Drugs; cannabis, yes. The first thing that surprises us is this race to see who presents more initiatives on the legalization of cannabis and faster: a bill from the Most Country, already debated, which was rejected by 263 of the 350 deputies of this House; is from the Republican Group; another from the United We can; four non-law proposals; a subcommittee on the therapeutic use of cannabis, and initiatives in the Senate. What this reflects is that those who are far from the reality of the Spaniards are you, because there is a great deal of haste in this House for something as urgent as regulating cannabis, as there was a great deal of haste to eliminate the crime of sedition and reduce misappropriation, but neither the Government nor its partners are in any hurry to reform the law of yes, which has already benefited more than five hundred sexual aggressors, as the PSOE has again demonstrated today by voting against a plenary to process its own reform in this House this week. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that drug use cannot be a taboo issue, many groups have said so and it is true. It is not a subject that can be treated naively. Maybe there are no absolute answers either, we can't put a blindfold in front of reality, but we need to see the data. The Ministry of Health's alcohol and drug survey of 2022 points out that cannabis is one of the most widely used drugs, with worrying data such as that 22.6% of young people between the ages of 15 and 24 have used cannabis in the last 12 months, a percentage that stands at 27% among men between the ages of 15 and 24, almost one third of the population. Or that 1.9 per cent of the population between the ages of 15 and 64, about 600,000 people, have a daily and problematic use of cannabis that causes them health problems. Or, as Mrs Rosique acknowledged in this rostrum in that October 2012 debate, that cannabis addiction is one of the drugs that most medical consultations are generating among young people. Or that their usual consumption generates, as recalled by my colleague Elvira Velasco in that same debate or as reminded by the government's own delegate for the National Drug Plan, among other side effects, chronic bronchitis, cardiovascular disorders, psychotic outbreaks and depression. Mrs Rosique, that is what we are talking about, and therefore this issue should be dealt with from a scientific and health point of view, not from a frivolity or banalization point of view. I'm sure you agree on that, too. But you will understand that a text that is most scientific in its collection is a reference to the CIS of Tezanos does not give our group too much confidence. [[Applauds]] Mrs Rosique, you are incurring permanent contradictions in this text. They say it's bad and it's an addiction to fight, but then they call it recreational. They dedicate a title to the prevention of addictions, perhaps in charge of conscience, but then they give their exclusive sale to the pharmacies and say - they have said today - that it is a medicine. They mix barbecues with merinas, because they introduce therapeutic use to whitewash what is a law of total legalization of cannabis and marijuana consumption. By the way, where did Mrs Gorospe say that the conclusions of a subcommittee in which experts on the therapeutic use of these cannabis-related medicines did appear? Our group continues to maintain that there is already a Spanish Medicines Agency which has, in fact, authorised certain medicinal products with cannabic compounds, and that it is the Spanish agency that must deal with this matter with guarantees. They make some arguments - which is better regular, that the state would get a lot of income, that it would end up with the mafia and drug trafficking - but, by analogy, if they were right in these arguments they would be valid for all drugs. Why don't you bring in a text to regulate all the drugs? Or are they saying there's good drugs and bad drugs? Or are they at least saying cannabis is better than other drugs? I believe, Mrs Rosique, that these signs only confuse young people and promote their consumption, especially among young people. According to the latest STUDES survey, 15.4% of young people who have never tried cannabis would try it in case of legalization. Then they say that meat is bad, that sugar is bad, that industrial bubbly is bad; now cannabis is good. They are aimed at the fight against smoking - we too; it was unanimously adopted by this House - but they want more cannabis to be used, not knowing that in 80% of cases consumption is associated with smoking, and says the same poll by the Ministry of Health. They are revolutionary and want to transform society, but then, in the case of cannabis, we have to pay attention to what the CIS of Tezanos says. Mrs Rosique, they regulate the cannabic clubs, associations for the cultivation and consumption of cannabis, which were regulated and, as they have recalled, that was declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court - that law of the Parliament of Catalonia - for a competition issue not for a substantive issue. They refer to the Uruguayan law - practically the heel - and I have been able to talk this week with workers of the Uruguayan Cannabis Regulatory Institute and they shared with me that, as well as there is control of production in the state grounds, the cannabic clubs are assuming a real black hole for illegal sale and trafficking of cannabis. I was told that drug trafficking has not disappeared, that it affects lower classes especially and that therapeutic use has hardly developed, but that there has been an explosion in recreational use. Yes, we must also learn from the experience of those countries to which you refer, but it is left alone in the headline. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be mistaken about terms, it is not a question of freedom - it is not now Mr Díaz, who distributes liberal meat. I am a liberal, but liberalism is not only about laissez faire - I should read Hayek - but also about defending fundamental rights and there is a fundamental right to health protection in article 43 of our Constitution. That's also being liberal. Finally, I want to address the Socialist Party. You were serious and forceful in this debate in October 2021, I must admit, and we agree with that position. What I am asking you today is that you do not give in to the most radical wing of your Government and to its radical partners, because you have already done so on other occasions; you have done so, for example, with the law of yes is yes, and you have gone as you have done. Let us continue in this position of defense of health, of defense of young people and let us say no to a drug use that destroys lives, destroys families, destroys societies and destroys especially the youngest and weakest in our society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u29	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Sancho Guardia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u30	Thank you, President. Mrs Rosique, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has always tried, from the very beginning to the present day, not to confuse medicinal and therapeutic cannabis with the recreational use that you also include in your proposal. He has challenged the socialists to take a step forward; even Mr Díaz has dared to say that we lack courage. I would like to remind Mr Díaz that the value lies in that intermediate place between cowardice and fearlessness, and also to remind him of an important survey that has not been mentioned here, which is EDADES 2022, much wider than that of CIS, which says that only 33% of the population is in favour of regulating the use and legalization of cannabis and 73% is about to tighten the penalties. Having said that, today we are debating for the second time a proposal for a law on the Integral Regulation of Cannabis, and we are doing so after the debate held in plenary a year ago with the proposal of the Plural Group and after the adoption of the opinion of the subcommission for the study of the medicinal use of cannabis last June, subcommission that ended with a series of conclusions and recommendations after the appearance of experts and experienced agents. It was a debate that we from the Socialist Group had always thought that we had to have as much consensus as possible and with several axes that basically shared all the groups that belong to this House: that there was medical prescription, legal and health security for patients and for health care workers, and that it had control of the Spanish Medicines Agency. On these axes a consensus was built, which does not exist today with its proposal. You intend with your text to basically regulate the cultivation, production, trade and consumption of cannabis, both medicinal and recreational, invoking the extent of its use. We have always argued that they are two different debates, because one will be able to better help the quality of life of thousands of patients who suffer pain and the other does not help any person in their quality of life. Today they present a proposal - with all due respect - full of inaccuracies, judgments of value and contraindications from their preamble, which, because of its integral nature by including recreational use, would place us outside the policies of the countries of our environment. You speak of the need to resolve the contradiction raised by the international treaties ratified by the Spanish State. No, Mrs Rosique, your proposal is aimed at changing the current legal framework; no contradiction, contraindication, because your proposal runs counter to international law and the Constitution. The reality is that the rules in force in Spain derive from the UN Single Convention, an international treaty signed and ratified by Spain, by the European Union and by the bulk of the international community, and that, as provided for in Article 96.1 of the Constitution, it is binding and of direct and preferential application in our country. Cannabis is a substance included in the Single Convention and is therefore subject to control. You appeal to the existence of regulations in other countries. With regard to the medicinal use of cannabis, they know that in our country the existing rules on medicinal products allow the authorization, prescription and dispensation of cannabis preparations financed by the National Health System. And, as far as recreational use is concerned, there are only four cases worldwide, with the exceptions in the United States of America of the differences between States and the federal government that arise there. Mrs Rosique, one issue is to decriminalize drug use and possession of small quantities for that purpose - as is already the case in Spain for cannabis and other drugs, and then you already know that other countries have done so - and another very different thing is to legalize the production and distribution of drugs - great contraindication - which is also expressly prohibited by the Single Convention. It is also a contraindication if we focus on the health aspects in general. Increased cannabis use would lead to increased health and social adverse effects. In addition to suffering, disease and preventable deaths, there is an increase in spending to minimize precisely the damage to the population by increasing its consumption. The data from the European Union and in Spain the annual reports of the Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Addictions confirm this. I also want to make some final consideration in particular and briefly. It would not be justified to extend the use without scientific evidence or when there are other safer effective treatments. The Agency for Medicinal Products, and by mandate of the subcommission, is currently working - and they have commented - on other preparations so that when scientific knowledge certifies its usefulness can be used. By mixing the use of cannabis generally, it becomes very difficult to apply validation and control, which protect the patient. The personal cultivation of cannabis for medical purposes contravenes the Single Convention and, curiously, this also contradicts the provisions of its twenty-first article, which affects the need for prescription and optional supervision. Its proposal also eliminates the need for medical prescription in the case of non-psychoactive cannabis. Its article 27 breaks the mechanisms of medical and pharmaceutical control and contravenes the provisions of the Guarantees Act, but also the text of its proposal in its article 20, and its proposal violates fundamental principles on the authorization of experimentation in humans with a simple presentation of responsible declaration. In short, Ms. Rosique, if all United Nations reports believe that any increase in cannabis use for non-medical purposes will also increase the adverse effects of cannabis on public health with the inclusion of recreational purposes, the primary purpose set out in article 1 is contradictory. of its proposal for a law: to protect, promote and improve the public health of the population. That is why our parliamentary group cannot support its proposal for a law. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u31	Thank you very much. - OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ORGANISATION FOR THE DEROGATION OF ARTICLE 384 BIS OF THE CRIMINAL INJURY LAW [[File number 122/00250]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u32	We continue with the agenda regarding the consideration of the proposed law of the Plural Parliamentary Group, which is organic for the repeal of article 384 bis of the Criminal Procedure Act. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u33	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a law that we are presenting, the repeal of Article 384a of the Criminal Procedure Act, that is to say, the removal of the possibility of suspending parliamentarians and public positions in provisional detention without a previous sentence, is obviously an improvement. Reducing the right of exception, limiting the counter-terrorism staff, not putting at risk fundamental principles of the rule of law, such as the presumption of innocence, the division of powers and the inviolability of Parliament are improvements in any case and everywhere: for the Parliament of Catalonia, for the Senate, for Congress and for its governing bodies, because eliminating this article closes the way for undue interference by the courts in their activities. But repealing the 384 bis above all is an improvement for the elected representatives and for the citizens who voted for them, because it means ending a relic of the anti-terrorist policy of the 1980s, of the same time as the LAG, an outdated device whose very existence and possibility of application by the judges themselves ensures the abuse of law that will occur. Article 384 bis provides for the suspension of public office, including parliamentary office, in pretrial detention from the firmness of the indictment. An investigating judge may suspend a parliamentarian, without a sentence, on the simple charge of violence or terrorism. This is an article of dubious constitutionality, which the Constitutional Court affirmed, warning that it is a perfectly non-dispensable optional provision, whose raison d'être, in line with parliamentary debates, was the situation of terrorist violence that marked day by day in the 1980s. Consistently, the Constitutional Court interpreted the term "rebels" restrictively to the actions of armed gangs and terrorist elements with violence using weapons and explosives, permanent, stable and entity-based violence to produce terror in society. All the cautions of the Constitutional Court have proved futile with the Spanish judges, who take advantage of every possibility they have to implement their political agenda, and we all know of recent examples that show it. Abusive supplication to the independence prisoners elected in the Catalan elections of 2017 and in the general elections of April 2019 involved a clear case of bis in idem, an early sanction and a pre-determination of the result of the criminal process in which the deputies Oriol Junqueras, Jordi Turull, Josep Rull, Jordi Sánchez and Senator Raül Romeva were immersed, and also the councillor at the City Council of Barcelona Joaquim Forn. All of them were separated by the robes from the representation that the ballot boxes had given them. No one in his or her right mind could think that in a supposedly democratic State, beyond ETA terrorism, a rule that, without any sentence, deprives public representatives of their office would apply. The indiscriminate suspension of the independenceist political leaders showed that the 384 bis is nothing but a tool in the hands of the judges to pursue their political activism, a procedural rigour, a very simple but very burdensome trick in democratic terms. The investigating judge accuses of rebellion and, therefore, of violence, without any foundation. They put you in prison unjustly - I don't know if you remember what the UN Arbitrary Detention Group said - and without a sentence the charge is suspended. The United Nations Human Rights Committee, in its opinion of July 2022, states that the application of article 384 bis to Catalan political leaders constitutes a violation of article 25 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, concerning the right to participation in public affairs directly or through freely elected representatives and the right to be elected and to remain in office if not through a final judgement. According to the United Nations, its implementation does not meet the requirements of predictability, proportionality, objectivity and reasonableness, and article 25 of the Covenant. The public and peaceful facts referred to in this United Nations opinion, that is, what happened before all the chambers, should under no circumstances have led to the application of such a measure. Not only that, but the Human Rights Committee obliges the Spanish State to take the necessary measures to prevent similar violations in the future, to redress the damage caused and to publish the opinion, and gives Spain 180 days to do so. And it must do so, because it is a signatory State to the Optional Protocol to the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and has therefore assumed that the Covenant binds it. Well, we now have the opportunity to comply with the United Nations resolution, which is the same as meeting the obligations that the Spanish State itself has assumed, and the best way to comply with its obligations is by repealing article 384 bis. The occasion makes the thief. If this rule ceases to be available to judges who have a political agenda of their own, there will be no other occasion for the togas to steal the mandate of the ballot boxes. The 384 bis is an obsolete rule; without terrorist violence, its mere existence, its literality is a danger that neither the constitutional jurisprudence nor the penal reform of 1995 - a reform that suppressed the identification between armed gangs and terrorist or'rebel' elements - nor the reality of public and peaceful facts, which did not fit in with the assumption or the hammering, have prevented it from materializing, by preventing the legitimate exercise of the political rights of those who profess ideologies that are not in the interest of the high authorities of the judiciary. With its repeal, we will avoid future judicial interference against the sovereignty of the Chambers, against the division of powers and, therefore, against the rule of law. And also with its repeal we will close the door to the violation of the fundamental principle of the presumption of innocence, which, according to international human rights jurisprudence, prevents the effects of conviction from advancing, and less so when it comes to representatives of popular sovereignty. A week ago, the VOX Group presented an initiative to extend the causes of ineligibility to people in search and capture order, an ad hominem measure against President Puigdemont. Mr Taibo Monelos, Member of the Socialist Group, literally said that they are not here to restrict rights and that VOX - I open quotes - proposes to judge people who have not been tried or convicted, eliminating a pillar of our rule of law as is the presumption of innocence in the purest inquisitorial style. In a full democracy - continued the deputy Taibo - the presumption of innocence must be above, and ineligibility affects a fundamental right. And it ended: The difference between us socialists is that we expand rights, and you - VOX - restrict and eliminate rights. With these words it would be said that the PSOE will vote in favour of taking this initiative into consideration, although I must admit that I am not very optimistic, because when it comes to repression against an objectively identifiable group, such as Catalan independence, you Socialists have never had any doubt that your allies are VOX, PP and Citizens. They are his allies every day in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, when it comes to fighting together to whitewash judicial repression, or in the European Parliament and right here in this House to prevent the investigation of the biggest case of political espionage in recent years, the Pegasus catalangate. The question we ask you - which are the so-called Spanish progressives - and which we extend to all groups in the House, is: Are you going to continue to accept the subordination of the Legislative Power to the Judiciary? Are you going to let this legislature pass without having done anything to end the government of the judges, where the right of exception is the one in charge? And I'm done. Since February 23, 1981, when someone opened the doors to the guns of the thugs, the worst moment of this House, of this Congress of Deputies, arrived on May 24, 2019, when someone opened the doors for, for the second time, pistols to enter this Chamber; in this case the police who came to take the elected deputies, to take the deputies Junqueras, Sànchez, Turull and Rull to Soto del Real. In the face of Marchena's abuse of power, where was the preeminence of the Legislative Power? Where did parliamentary supremacy lie? Where was the division of powers with its counterweights? Where did popular sovereignty lie in the face of Marchena's abuse of power? In the face of that infamous May 12, 2019, where was the inviolability of Congress, enshrined in its Rules of Procedure, an organic law - by the way, the Rules of Congress of Deputies is an organic law - Where was this Table of Congress of Deputies when praying before the prepotence of a judge who decided that the Criminal Prosecution Act was the one that prevailed and there was no place for supplication? By the way, the supplication, is a thing, an invention, that did not appear out of nowhere, but appeared precisely to protect the inviolability of the Chambers. I'll tell you, on the floor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u34	Thank you. The Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca, has the floor in position-setting.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will vote against the consideration of this proposal for a law, which, on the pretext of repealing article 384 bis of the Criminal Procedure Act, calls into question the Spanish Constitution, the rule of law and the Supreme Court, and also questions the cleaning up of Spain's presence in international bodies and the implementation of its resolutions. Actually, nothing new. This initiative, promoted by Mr Pagès and other deputies of Junts per Catalunya, repeats the arguments of independence in its fictitious victimist strategy which, on the other hand, has given them so juicy results thanks to the transfers and concessions of Pedro Sánchez, such as Enríquez Negreira in the shadow. In this regard, remember the pardon to those sentenced for the trial of the trial, the foolish suppression of the remanguillé of the crime of sedition, which leaves the State unfettered to those who want to perpetrate attacks and threats to the unity of Spain and even the challenging proclamations here, at the headquarters of national sovereignty. Ladies and gentlemen, separatism repeats repeatedly the canteen that Spain does not comply with the recommendations and reports of international bodies, which, being false, serves as a pretext to question our legal system. Today, they are seeking the repeal of an article in the Criminal Procedure Act, which comes into force in 1988 and has constitutional approval. The incorporation of Article 384a into the legal system has absolutely nothing to do with the judicial proceedings to pursue the criminal escalation initiated in 2010, under the thread of Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's irresponsible commitment to support a statute that crushed equality between Spaniards and territories. That was the flag for the insatiables to try to undermine the democratic pillars built since 1978...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u36	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u37	Repealing this article would give wings to independence. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u38	Thank you. Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. You're an independentist, aren't you? You're defending independence? And he's a congressman? And he's here? And you came out to defend that? And he hasn't been arrested by any judge, no toga, as you say? They didn't do anything to him? I mean, you can defend independence without any problem in this rostrum, quietly. It's just that you pretend to cheat. But, of course, those who can't do that, it's that they had committed crimes, they had a car to prosecute... [[Applauds]] It has nothing to do with it, you can't sell the idea here that you can't defend what you want, because you can defend what you want, because Spanish democracy is very generous, not as in other countries of Europe, but here it is. See if you can do whatever you want that you can humiliate our symbols, the common symbols. Look, that flag killed a lot of people in this country... [[indicates the flag of Spain that is located behind his back]] [[Applauds]] Yes, that flag represents democracy in Spain and freedom. Yes, and you, without any problem, can humiliate the symbols of the Spanish as a whole, of the millions of Spaniards who, among other things, pay us all the wages. So are you. Therefore, with the symbols of Spain, more careful. Take care; yes, yes, you must take care of them, you cannot be outraged, as you do and as you have done this morning in this seat, in the seat of national sovereignty, in the General Courts. [[Applauds]] And when you come here to talk about the past, like you did, and you talked about the LAGs, and so on, why didn't you talk about the other side, why did you start? He's been talking about generic things. No, no, he went for the terrorist band ETA, of course, because in institutions they were sitting killers. Yes, murderers, people who had been murdered sat in institutions. And you know what happens now? That those who were comrades of the murdered are the ones who made this government possible, exactly. And you want to put an end to all the proceedings, all the criminal proceedings and the Criminal Prosecution Act. Hey, don't you have enough with everything Sanchez has already given you? Don't you have enough? Man, please, but if they do what they want! So, for the time being, it seems that with this law today they are not going to get away with it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u40	Thank you. Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u41	Thank you, President. What Junts per Catalunya is asking us today is a matter of fundamental rights. Article 384a of LECRIM allows, without a final judgment, the suspension of public office on grounds of terrorism and armed gangs. Today neither situation exists and, however, it was applied to Catalan prisoners. Why? Because measures of exceptional criminality are justified for reasons that are always more important than fundamental rights and then remain in the legal system by wreaking havoc. The article is from 1988, but the battle against ETA was a driving force for countless violations of fundamental rights, such as the illegalization of youth parties and organizations. It is precisely this week that twenty years have passed since the closure of Egunkaria, with torture of journalists including whom the European Court of Human Rights recognized in 2012 and for which it condemned the Kingdom of Spain. In 2018, the Human Rights Court itself ruled that those convicted of the Bateragune trial did not have a fair trial. It is that when measures are taken that paralyze civil and political rights, precisely with the flag of fundamental rights, peace and democracy, they always carry injustices and serve to justify authoritarian measures in Euskal Herria and also in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u42	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u43	Thank you very much, President. We discussed the consideration of an initiative that proposes the beginning of the parliamentary procedure for the repeal of article 384 bis of the Criminal Procedure Act, which, as has already been pointed out, had a background in article 22 of the Organic Law 9/1984, the so-called anti-terrorist law, in the course of article 55.2 of the Constitution, and which allowed certain fundamental rights to be suspended, including that of public office, once the indictment of members of armed gangs or terrorist organizations and those accused of rebellion integrated therein, as interpreted by the Constitutional Court in its judgment 199/1987, following an appeal of unconstitutionality brought by the Basque Parliament. I prescribe that of Organic Law 9/1984, once its validity has been temporarily limited, it was reinstated in the legal system through Organic Law 4/1988, amending the Criminal Procedure Act, with its current content and wording in article 384 bis, adding as a requirement for the provisional suspension of public office to which the provisional detention was already known as a final indictment and for the duration of this situation. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Basque Parliamentary Group, during the process of these two organic laws, which I have quoted to you, raised objections and objections to them, as I would also like to remind you, among others, of Mr Tamames, who is in the mouth of all these days. These repairs were based together with others on the fact that one thing is the physical impossibility of exercising some of the functions of public office because of being deprived of liberty and another is the automatic suspension of all functions. Whatever it may be, ladies and gentlemen, finally, the Constitutional Court, in its judgment 71/1994, also following another appeal from the Basque Parliament, determined the constitutionality of the said 384 bis by, according to the judgment, having the legislator prescribed in negative one of the requirements for the maintenance of the exercise of a public function or office, namely not to be in provisional detention as a result of the prosecution for the offence of integration or relationship with armed gang or terrorist or rebel individuals. And it continues, either because this circumstance is seen by the legislator as irreconcilable with the presence of the defendant for these crimes in the performance of a public function or, more simply - it continues - as incompatible with the granting of any release from prison permit for the eventual performance of specific acts that involve the exercise of such a function or office. Adding later in judgments 11/2020 and 71/2021 that, of the literality of 384 bis and its connection with the legal configuration of the fundamental right to access and to remain in public office, there is no limiting interpretation of the concept of rebel to those cases in which it can be identified or considered to coincide with that of the armed gang, as was done when prosecuting the constitutionality of Organic Law 9/1984, the anti-terrorism law, which was precisely what was claimed in the amparo appeals that gave rise to the last two aforementioned sentences. So far, ladies and gentlemen, the genesis of the precept we are dealing with and the jurisprudence on it and its background, which I believe is not only timely in itself, but also in our view to take a position on taking account of the initiative, not forgetting that these rulings of the Constitutional Court judge the constitutionality of certain rules, but do not condition the legislator to opt for another different model. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the substantive issue raised by Article 384a with regard to elected posts, to representatives, is, on the one hand, their automatism, since the suspension is inextricably linked to the concurrence of the situation defined in the precept; and, on the other hand, the absence of a margin to limit the subjective scope of application in relation to the expression rebel individuals, by not linking the legal restriction of the fundamental right to access and maintain in the exercise of public office with the use of weapons or explosives, either by the persons prosecuted or by the group in which they allegedly belong or are related; or, in other words, by considering actions in Article 384a and its consequences to those persons elected for alleged crimes, also on the basis of public and peaceful facts prior to the existence of a conviction. In this regard, we believe that we should be able to reflect within the relevant presentation and committee on the considerations of the effect of the United Nations Human Rights Committee, which I take for granted by the intervention of some of the previous spokespersons. It is also necessary to reflect on the legislative desirability of limiting the subjective scope of article 384 bis, as was also done in relation to the concept of rebel individual in the judgment I have already cited 199/1987, with regard to its meaning in Organic Law 9/1984, when the limitations on certain fundamental rights contained in article 55.2 of the Constitution were articulated. It is also necessary to reflect as the pre-legislator provides in the preliminary draft Criminal Procedure Act, now pending report by the General Council of the Judiciary, when dealing with the suspension of public office and the special rules for adopting personal protective measures for the elected. That is why, ladies and gentlemen - and I am finishing, President - our group will vote in favour of taking the initiative into consideration for its further debate and parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u44	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u45	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr Pagès, you know I have respect for you, but today you have given here the image of a bad lawyer, which is what has happened to us many times to many that we have gone to a lawsuit and we lose it because we couldn't win, and then you mix it all up: that if the human rights conventions, that if the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, that if VOX brought the issue of the causes of ineligibility the other day, that I don't know what it has to do with this. Finally, a whole kind of ball, a kind of ball so that it looks like an attractive political speech, you can put on your tweets, and your voters are delighted. I, unfortunately, tell you that I'm going to bore you because I'm going to talk to you about law. Interventions can be made here, but article 384 bis - Mr Legarda has said it very well - is an article which states, without further ado, that if there is a indictment and provisional detention for very serious crimes has been handed down and ordered, it immediately implies the suspension of employment or public office until it is released from prison or until the acquittal sentence or sentence that does not have the suspension. Well, there's a processing car, but I don't know if people know what that is. It is a person in respect of whom an investigating judge has found that there are reasonable indications of criminality for having committed serious crimes, that is to say, it seems to a judge that a person has committed serious crimes, but, in addition, the order is final. Ah, well, that is, it is not the whim of a fascist judge who wants to attack the independence represented by Mr Pagès or Mrs Nogueras; no, it is an investigating judge who has appreciated that there are rational signs of criminality, although you have been able to resort to the higher collegiate body, which will also be full of fetters, I imagine, of course. But it is also that the provisional arrest warrant has been issued by another judge, and can only be issued at the request of the Prosecutor's Office and only on the basis of tried cases. It is a measure, that of provisional detention, which must be proportionate and necessary in the sense of essential. It is also a measure that can only be taken in the case of offences that are punishable by more than two years'imprisonment or for recidivism, and it is only a measure that can be taken to avoid the risk of escape, to prevent the destruction of evidence, to prevent a re-infringement of the victim and to prevent the re-infringement of crimes. And it turns out that a judge, a prosecutor or a higher body, who has been appealed against, has decided that a crime appears to have been committed, that there may be a risk of escape, that there may be a recurrence of crime, that evidence may be destroyed and that the public service of justice may be seriously harmed. But you say that this subject has to be in his office holding a public office, that is, exercising competences of the utmost relevance, being able, in the exercise of his public powers, to harm the victim again, spending everyone's money, embezzling, and all the Spaniards paying him his salary. To me, honestly, it seems to me that your speech, Mr Pagès, has neither feet nor head. It is a precautionary measure, like several others that exist in our criminal legal system, absolutely proportionate and absolutely logical. Because you are talking, as always, about Oriol Junqueras, of Rull, of Turull de Romeva, but, perhaps, look at a police officer who is in public office and who, for example, has been arrested, prosecuted and who is in temporary detention for belonging to a terrorist organization, can you continue to be a police officer? But, man, please. It's just that your approach is ridiculous! Since he has absolutely no argument, he read it all in this ball that he has mounted in his speech. In its written approach, it states that this impairs the right of access to public office under article 23 of the Constitution. But what are you saying, man, if we all know! The very judgment that Mr Legarda has read - by the way, accepting the allegations of my colleague, the state lawyer, in 1994 - says that the right to public office must always be moved within the legal framework, meeting the legal requirements. As for the presumption of innocence, are you going to seek to repeal all precautionary measures until the final judgment exists? That's crazy! You have no arguments of any kind, of any kind! In Citizens, democratic cleansing, which is the best – and not the best – in the service of the public interest, and not in temporary detention, is a sign of identity. His fellow Member and lawyer from Puigdemont, Don Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas, by which process also great respect, with which I have faced many times in trial, and professor of procedural law, says that this is an unfortunate drafting precept, and I agree with him. I agree with him! It is an unfortunate precept of drafting because what needs to be done is to extend the number of crimes to which it must be applied: to all crimes against the Constitution, to all crimes against the law of nations and international law, to all crimes against the public administration. All offences against public order must be subject to immediate and automatic suspension of the public office of the official when the indictment has been issued and when the provisional arrest warrant has been issued. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I have read news that you are going to give this of the 384 bis repeal to P.C.T. I say to you that as this enters as an amendment into one of the procedural or digital efficiency laws that we have right now in the Committee on Justice, my group is going to vote that not only for this amendment. Therefore, please take the public service of justice seriously, which is what article 384 bis of the Criminal Procedure Act does. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u46	Thank you. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u47	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, congressmen and deputies. In the Spanish State there is a deeply imperfect democracy. We are aware that this does not like many of you, but for many other citizens it is obvious, and in my country it is evidence. In this State, persons convicted of offences of opinion are counted as dozens. In this state, independent political leaders have been spied on, violating all their civil rights. In this State, a law is in force that is designed and implemented to combat political dissent and social mobilization. In this State, police have infiltrated social and neighbouring movements of Catalan countries to carry out investigations in an absolutely illegal and immoral manner. In this State, two temporary immigration centres and seven detention centres for foreigners are in operation, each violating the most basic rights of highly vulnerable persons. In this State there are judges who retort the law and apply a regime of arbitrariness that violates the rule of law and the principle of legality in a flagrant manner. Political prisoners and exiles have existed and exist in this State. I insist, some may sound hard, they may not like it, but for the majority of citizens and in my country this is already evidence. None of this goes unnoticed either in international bodies. The Spanish State's enormous evidence of meeting the requirements of a State governed by law is very clear. Several reports from international organizations point out that there are serious shortcomings in the Spanish State regarding judicial independence, the fight against corruption at the highest level, freedom of expression, the rights of immigrants and the reparation of the victims of Francoism. In particular, they point out that Spain often ignores the recommendations of the European Union concerning fundamental rights and the functioning of a democracy, such as the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, required by the European Commission, as well as the need to create an independent audiovisual authority. These violations affect us all, and the responsibility and obligation to denounce them in all possible instances is also ours. In the same framework of action, following this same strategy, Vice-President Oriol Junqueras and Councillors Raül Romeva, Josep Rull and Jordi Turull, having been unjustifiably dismissed from their responsibilities for the implementation of this article 384 bis of the Criminal Procedure Act, initiated international actions against the United Nations Human Rights Committee, due to the fact that the violation of the Spanish State had contravened an international treaty as elementary as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, namely article 25. I would like to recall that the referenced precept, as has already been said, establishes the equality of all citizens in access to political participation, active and passive suffrage and the development of public functions. Well, as has also been said, on 12 July 2022, the United Nations Human Rights Committee ruled that the application of article 384 bis of the Criminal Procedure Act by the Spanish State against independence leaders violated international law. This conviction also arises in connection with the report of the Venice Commission of 13 March 2017, which, in paragraph 572, also referred Spain to a different application of the above-mentioned article of the criminal procedure law, based on article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. All these international references and condemnations should serve to take a step further in the list of democratic progress, to move also in this aspect of denunciation to transformation, because political dissidents cannot be arbitrarily removed from their posts without a firm sentence and a neutral, homologable and fully guaranteed judicial process. That has been and is the strategy of Republican Left, our anti-repressive strategy. Thanks to this strategy, today nine people sleep in their homes with their families and also today some of the Junta colleagues will be able to run in the next elections. All international resolutions against the Spanish State are not random, they are the result of our strategy. We are glad that Junts has seen, with this proposal for a law, that the Republican Left strategy can be good or not, may like it more or not, but it is the only one on the table, and this strategy goes through struggle, denunciation, mobilization and political transformation. [[Applauds]] But because of the small progress that is being made, we cannot resign ourselves as long as there is only one violation of rights resulting from the arbitrariness of the system; they cannot lead us to conformism, but they must reaffirm us in the need to continue the fight against injustice. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to evoke an image, and with this I conclude; many of you witnessed it, like me, just under four years ago. This is about the entry into this Chamber of Oriol Junqueras, Jordi Turull, JordiSánchez and Josep Rull and the entry of Raül Romeva into the Senate Palace, all of them unjustly imprisoned men of peace who went out of prison to collect their minutes from parliamentarians as political prisoners and on legal imperative. They were people who suffered a situation of extreme injustice and who knew that they would not be allowed to perform the functions for which their fellow citizens had chosen them. However, they have appeared in this House in order to defend an ideal of justice, of democratic progress. Today, recalling the dignity that these men of peace transmitted that day, we announce our support for this legislative initiative. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u48	Thank you. For the Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u49	Thank you, President. Mr Bal, the truth is that if the very liberal Marquis de Beccaria got up from the grave and heard his conception of what criminal types are and what criminal law is, he would surely give him an attack and die again immediately. In any case, Mr Pagès, it is true that the debate that you bring here is presented in a worrying context, which is that of the use of criminal procedural law as an instrument to severely limit democratic rights and to ban political opponents. As you surely know, in May 2019 the Bureau of Congress had to decide whether to apply the requirement of the Marche judge that section 384 bis of the Criminal Procedure Act be automatically applied to suspend a number of independent deputies. On that occasion, and shortly after a municipal election, the Socialist Party, the People's Party and Citizens voted against that decision, and Congresswoman Gloria Elizo and I opposed it. We were against, of course, not by programmatic coincidences with his party, but because we understood, from that guaranteed and liberal perspective in that regard, that such use of criminal procedural law constitutes a clear impairment of the rights of the people who had voted for those deputies, which constituted a impairment of the separation of powers and also of the autonomy of this House. We were against it, therefore, without making any partisan calculation, but by guaranteed conviction and by democratic conviction. We objected because we did not forget, as was said here, the manoeuvre used to unjustly condemn the president of the Basque Parliament, José Maria Atutxa, of the Basque Nationalist Party, for defending parliamentary autonomy. We objected because we knew that for that judicial, political, media right, aided by ultra-right groups, such as Clean Hands or VOX, the performance with Basque or Catalan independenceists was only an announcement of what they intended to do with Andalusian or Madridn social activists and against anyone who did not fit into their project for a privileged minority. At that time, in fact, we had just experienced the case of our partner, Vicky Rosell, who for Republican dignity had had to leave her deputy record before the infamous operation of a false judge and today in prison like Salvador Alba. Later, already in this legislature, we also experienced the case of Alberto Rodríguez, unconstitutionally removed from his office as a result of a new spurious operation of the judicial right to which we opposed frontally, this time also with the deputy Javier Sánchez Serna, and unfortunately alone in defense of his rights and the dignity of this House. What I want to say with this, Mr Pagès, is that our parliamentary group, which is not an independenceist group, never hesitated to defend the rights of members of your party, because we knew that what was at stake was the freedoms of all and because we knew what we had in front of us, and what we had in front of us was a neo-rancist right-wing, contrary to pluralism and basic principles, which remains embedded as a tar coast in different strata of the state. That is why I still remember that the deputies of Unity We can - I repeat, not only of Catalonia, of Murcia, of Andalusia, of Galicia, of Aragon, of the Canary Islands, of that Spain that you often see as irreformable, when not late - we opposed that appeal against your party using this article, and we did so, I repeat, with the same conviction that we opposed the application of article 155 of Rajoy, interpreted to the Fraga, denouncing the police charges of October 1 or criticizing the sectarian discourse of Felipe VI of day 3, and we did so also with the same conviction that we continue to denounce today a Supreme Court that, in fraud of law, intends to act as a third legislative chamber to disable independent, republican, leftist politicians and politicians, but to which it would cost to see applying this concrete article of LECRIM against a uprising of Bolsonaro's friends in this Chamber, emulating what happened in Brazil. The problem, Mr Pagès, is that you have a similar attitude when these judicial operations are thrown out by large economic groups linked to the political right against activists, against trade unionists or against progressive or leftist forces. And I am not saying this for you, who is a guaranteeing lawyer, to whom I know and respect, but because the group you represent is increasingly being shunned to positions of order that are incapable of questioning the privileges of large economic groups that also participate in judicial war operations, which harm, and much, our democracy. I come from Barcelona and, as you know, there the mayor, Ada Colau, for example, has been the subject of countless unfounded complaints about wanting to municipalize the water, for defending the right to housing of families without housing alternatives, for defending the rights of the taxi, for facing unscrupulous lobbies such as Agbar, MK Premium, Communauto, VTC and like some large vulture funds that elude our cities. All these complaints, Mr Pagès, have been spread on media and social networks accompanied by bulls and falsehoods. Each and every one of them has been archived, and the sad thing, Mr Pagès, is that their political force, which today fights for being that law enforcement force, for being the old Convergence of Jordi Pujol again, is always at the side of the big lobbies, of the right-wings that keep them up and of the bubbles and falsehoods that spread. How do you explain that? [[Applauds]] What I tell you about Barcelona, I can also tell you about activists, of trade unionists unjustly persecuted in Madrid, in Andalusia, in Murcia, in many of those places from which representatives came out who defended their deputy here in Congress, and I have not seen that reciprocity. What I have seen is that obsession with looking like the Convergence that led at the time to the National Audience - we do not forget - eight young people who ended up being sentenced to three years in prison for legitimately protesting before Parliament. What I have seen too many times in this House is that tendency to demand solidarity with the rest, unconditional as long as the powers of the state attack you and, instead, to quickly stand on the side of the powerful when the victims are others. Do you remember what Niceto Alcalá-Zamora told the then leader of the Catalan right, Francesc Cambó? Do you remember? More or less he told him that one could not want to be at the same time Bolivar in Catalonia and Bismarck in Spain. Well, I think what happens to you is something like that, but the other way around. You come here, to Madrid, to make Bolivar from Catalonia, but it turns out that your party in Catalonia wants to be Bismarck or maybe it wants to be Pujol, and that leads to strange, dangerous companies and to ask for unilateral solidarity that are almost never reciprocal. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u50	Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Figaredo Álvarez-Sala has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are here today for an initiative that comes from one of those independence groups, that if it were not for how sad the situation is - which is already the norm, is not the exception - it would have to drive us crazy. The Criminal Prosecution Act provides for any person who has been prosecuted - that there is therefore a warrant for prosecution, that is, that the entire criminal investigation has been carried out - for offences related to membership of the armed gang, that that person will be suspended in the public representation he or she is performing. Let's put names and surnames to this, because this comes from Junts per Cat, which is this Catalan Independence Party, which was Convergence i Unió, but which, as you know, for the corruption that fell on it, carried out that process of refoundation, secession and rebranding, which would now say a modern one. That horribly corrupt party comes today to tell us that all those councillors who were dedicated to burning containers, breaking windows, kicking our national police and the Civil Guard, all those who also receive a public salary, all those must continue to be paid the stupid soup with the era, above all the Spaniards. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] Because - and here I am going to the issue that should be laughed at - all these independence groups - think of you in Junts per Cat, in Republican Left, not so groupy, careful, even Bildu - you are very anti-Spanish, you hate everything Spanish, you seek to systematically undermine all the institutions of the state and, however, to collect the public salary you are the most patriots. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] The gentlemen of Junts per Cat, four Members, charge almost 400,000 euros a year, paid by the taxpayers of Badajoz, Seville, Huelva, Asturias and Lérida. [[Applauds]] For that they have absolutely no remedy. The gentlemen of Esquerra Republicana - remember you, Gabriel Rufián, who was going to be here a few months - cut almost a million euros a month. They don't protest a little bit, not a little bit. Spanish money doesn't steal from them, does it? No, sir. But Bildu, Bildu's fighters also charge well from the Spanish era. Mr Oskar Matute - who is not here today, is not going to win the salary with his presence - of those friends of the ETA, charges 117 000 euros per year of the Spanish State that so much deplores. [[Applauds]] And what I ask is: What do the Catalan or Basque voters think, who believe that the adalids of independence are here to represent them and yet receive the gold of Caesar? What are you traitors, Judas, going to think about selling independence and then baking at the expense of the Spanish state? What are you gonna think? Will you go to your constituents to kiss them on the cheek as Judas the traitor did? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] Because you, who promised to be here a few months, are now screwed to your chairs, laughing, laughing, because it gives you exactly everything. They present any pamphlet disguised as legal theory, which is not supported, which is not supported, laughs and, meanwhile, they intertwine and intertwine, and stretch the famous gum of independence, with its dream and with all its stories. And on the way, what are they doing? Blend at the expense of all Spaniards. Because, do not get confused, Esquerra Republicana charges that million euros per month, the gentlemen of Junts per Cat Cobran those almost 400,000 euros per month and even the anti-capitalist lords of the CUP cut the dough at the end of the month very happy. Of course, they don't complain about that. As I told you, this would be a scam on your constituents, but it is that you use the money of the Spaniards to systematically undermine each of the public institutions that you touch, to insult the Civil Guard, to insult the judges, to those who call them robes that say that if they are fascists or not, but, on the other hand, they continue to charge from Spain. [[Applauds]] This situation, which is very sad, sad and with which we must end sooner than later, is systematically supported by the Socialist Party and by Podemos, who, as far as they can, lower the penalties for the seditious, eliminate the crime of rebellion, even lower the penalties for those politicians who cut public money for their particular purposes, call the Socialist Party whores and coca or call the illegal referendums of the Catalan independenceists. [[Applauds]] We find that the independenceists, with the Spanish public money, are fed, and the Socialist Party, with the representation that the poor voters scammed by socialism have given it, supports those who undermine public institutions. Poor Spain! But, thank God, there's still hope, because VOX is here to plant them face to face to all of you, because you think you can fool voters with your lies, but not us, and we will fight every day to unmask them and for the Spaniards in your constituencies to see the thieves...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u52	Your Honor, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u53	...and liars who are you. Thank you so much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u54	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Bermúdez de Castro Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, they say that constancy is the last refuge for those who lack imagination. Of imagination and I would also say that of usefulness, Mr Pagès, because, really, they have no other initiative to propose to us?Do they really not have another initiative that is more useful and seeks to improve people's lives? Or is the only thing that interests them in this legislature is to try to remove legal obstacles to fuel their illusory secessionist objective? Because that, in short, is what they bring us this afternoon and what they are pursuing with the initiative of repealing section 384 bis of the Criminal Prosecution Act, and that is why they will not count on our support. Ladies and gentlemen, this provision has been and must continue to be a legal tool in the hands of our judges and courts for the defence of our rule of law. And don't be confused, this measure of temporary suspension of elected public office has not been applied to innocent people nor to men of peace. This measure has been applied to persons on whom a final indictment had been handed down and on whom provisional detention had been ordered, persons who were subsequently sentenced to imprisonment and absolute disqualification because they had been raised in open sedition against the State, because they had disobeyed court decisions, because they had challenged the constitutional order and because they had embezzled public resources with the aim of breaking the territorial integrity of the State. [[applause]] Therefore, do not confuse, because they were not innocent, they were guilty, ladies and gentlemen. That is why the Constitutional Court unanimously approved in 2020 the decision of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court suspending Mr. Junqueras, Mr. Romeva and others from public office. It was an interim measure which the Constitutional Court understood to be part of the pursuit of crimes that entailed a challenge to the very essence of the democratic State, thus ratifying its judgment 71/1994, which had already established that the application of article 384 bis of the LECRIM to parliamentarians did not constitute a violation of their representative rights recognized by our Constitution in its article 23. And why, ladies and gentlemen? For simply because all citizens and all public authorities, including also the Legislative Power, are subject to the Constitution and the rest of the legal system, there is no room for immunity from it, which is what you are pursuing with this initiative. And they do not manipulate or curtail the opinion of the United Nations Human Rights Committee, because, in addition to what has already been said in this rostrum, the Committee itself considers that in the case under review the opinion itself constitutes sufficient reparation on the merits of the claim, and therefore nothing else should be remedied. Mr Pagès, not content with this morning's issue of removing the Spanish flag in the press room of this Congress - from which I hope the Bureau of Congress takes good note - you have come out to this rostrum to discredit the judges, accusing them of procedural arguments, political activism or abuse of law as justification for their initiative, and that, in addition to being inadmissible, is a lack of respect for the separation of powers that politically invalidates the whole of their initiative. [[Applauds]] For that it has been very brave, but I have not heard them make even the slightest reproach for the criminal actions resulting from what has been known by the process. What's more, they tell us not to rule out repeating it again. That is why they will understand that it is more than justified - I would say that it is essential - to continue to have instruments such as Article 384 bis of LECRIM to defend our rule of law and constitutional order. And it would be meaningless, ladies and gentlemen, if in the future those who could be held in provisional detention for being prosecuted for terrorist offences or rebels could continue to hold public office, because, ladies and gentlemen, they are very serious criminal behaviour affecting the core of the State and the pillars of our constitutional system. They qualify as legitimate exercise of rights and legitimate political activity what was lived in Catalonia in October 2017. You definitely have a conflict with the rule of law, with the law and also with democracy. I have told you on some other occasion and I repeat it because it is the first democracy: it is not possible to counter democratic legitimacy to legality. And you know why? Because in democracy nothing is legitimate unless it is also legal; because democracy is born with freedom, but always lives with the law, and therefore, in democracy, laws are always an expression of freedom and not of repression, as you say. Outside of the law there are neither rules nor law, and without rules nor law there is neither freedom nor coexistence, and there it all ends. [[Applauds]] So stop separating legality and legitimacy, because they are together on the same side; stop identifying the process as a democratic process, and stop using terms in a trappy way, because, it is true, voting is undoubtedly a fully democratic act, but it becomes a profoundly undemocratic act when it is done against the law. Look, whether you like it or not, the cause of secessionism failed the day it wanted to impose itself on democracy. That's why they didn't get any international support. His imaginary republic fled with a fugitive from justice to Waterloo, with a fugitive and with the more than 7,000 companies that left Catalonia, demonstrating that his only challenge he produced was more division and more impoverishment for the Catalans; that was the only thing they got. Think about it a little bit. And, Socialist gentlemen, you have heard what some have said from this rostrum. It is you who in this legislature have been able to break your principles and your word and change pardons and justice by vows, eliminating the crime of sedition so as to remain in power. It is you who are supporting and giving stability to a Republican Left Government in the Generalitat of Catalonia, approving their budgets. And in exchange for all this, in exchange for all those handouts and humiliations, to what have Esquerra and the rest of the independenceist and secessionist forces renounced? Nothing, ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, not only have they not given up any of their goals, but they are repeating defiant ones who are going to do so again. That is your mistake and your failure, and I assure you, say what Mr Tezanos says, that the Spaniards will make you pay at the polls, and if you don't believe it, don't worry, because soon, very soon, you will have the opportunity to check it out. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u56	Thank you. For the Socialist Group, Mr Aranda Vargas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Pagès, how comfortable you see the far right in these debates, how you like them with this retahíla. Today the VOX spokesman has won the salary, not as his leader, who comes here on Wednesday five minutes and leaves. Your leader, why is he coming? What was his language like? Tranca? If you lock 4 million of a foundation, and I don't say so, it's said by an ex-director who sat there four days ago, why is he coming? That one does earn the salary outside of Congress. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of Junts, my group does not share the opportunity, the justification or the reasons you indicate in this proposal for repealing Article 384a of the Criminal Procedure Act. Our vote will therefore be against the admission to this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak briefly on the proposal, because many things have already been said. This article involves the adoption of an interim measure linked to serious and very serious crimes, in which precisely the protected legal good requires the provision of the measure if the judicial authority considers it relevant. And you propose to repeal this article without any further alternative, when, for example, it has also been said that the 2021 Constitutional judgment consolidates the doctrine of other judgments, so that the application of the measure of suspension referred to in this article does not violate the rights recognized in article 23.2 of the Constitution. But it is that, besides, you, and not the first time, in your presentation quotes us, quotes me, quotes an independent committee of experts, and I, frankly, do not want to discredit either your role or the members of it, I must remind you of two things. First, that the opinions of the United Nations Human Rights Committee constitute mere recommendations and are not legally binding. And secondly, and most importantly, that the United Nations should express itself, as its Charter says, by its principal organs, which are the General Assembly, the Security Council, the Economic and Social Council, the Trusteeship Council, the International Court of Justice and the General Secretariat of the United Nations; all of them established under its Charter of Foundation. I think it is good that things are nuanced and explained to the right extent by the people who listen to us, because if not, you believe your own lies because it neither binds nor forces nor expresses the feeling of the UN. There are other more political issues, in the light of the arguments put forward by some of your ladies and gentlemen, because, given the debate, once again some of you remain stuck - and you like it - in the politics of confrontation and division, and at a stage of rift that many of us already see over; because this year's Spain and this year's Catalonia 2023 must look to the future, and you continue to look and remain embarrassed, as we have seen today, in the past. It powerfully draws my attention to how we return to the same arguments over and over again, and no, ladies and gentlemen, Spain is not a failed democracy, as some independent spokespersons want us to see. It is not a failed democracy. Their arguments are twisted, false and unwarranted. Every time they go up to this atrium, they say it, and I want to refute it. By the way, curious way to denounce repression, persecution by doing so from the rostrum of this Congress, from this atrium. So neither Spain is a failed, anti-democratic and repressive State nor, gentlemen of the right, independence is a general cause that must be pursued or demonized. Certainly, for the non-independenceists, our political and democratic task is to construct politically and politically an alternative that the majority of Catalan citizens want to adopt, moving away from extremes and routes that lead nowhere. We believe that independence is neither good nor desirable for Catalonia, so we defend it and explain it. Therefore, only from respect for the other side, from dialogue, from agreement, can a solid future be built, and it is obvious that there are parties that did not want it in 2017 or want it in 2023 or would obviously want it if they ruled this country. Mr. Spokesman, from the appreciation I have for you, because we have agreed by legislating, there is a recurring argument in your dialectic and also in that of the spokesman of your group that I will not tire of disputing every time I go up to this rostrum, because Catalonia is not Together and Together is not Catalonia. Neither did the PSC, but the PSC won the autonomic elections two years ago. Catalonia is the sum of all of us, and the voice of Catalonia is no one's property, neither yours nor mine. This is not that you come here and say, 'Cataluña thinks...', and the other Catalans we have to accept and assume without more than your Catalonia thinks. No, no, In the defense of Catalonia and the Catalans will not give us any lessons, none; never. [[Applauds]] To conclude, I will say that I am obviously no one to evaluate what they use their quota of propositions of law, it would be missing more. But if my memory doesn't fail me, the last one was used to talk about the Court of Auditors and it's for 384 LECRIM. And, as you fill the mouth of Catalonia, I do think it is necessary for citizens to know and value in their fair measure how we measure their contribution, that of their group, to the progress of Catalans and Catalans. Because you ask us to support this law, but what did you vote together in some of the main laws of this legislature - very complex, by the way - laws that affect, and much, the lives of Catalans and Catalans? Well, look, I'll tell you. State budget of 2021, against; of 2022, against; of 2023, against; decree for the lowering of the price of light, abstention; decree to alleviate effects on gas by the war of Ukraine, against; labor reform, against - it must be that there is no unemployment in Catalonia -; Sports law, against; law of memory, against; law of enterprises - man, enterprises!, there, perhaps...-, abstention. There is more: FP law, abstention; royal decree of economic consequences of war, against; telecommunications law, abstention; science law, abstention; education law, abstention; waste law - eye - against; nor did PP vote against. You and VOX, who are so looking for each other, here you are. Your Honor, I could go on, but I think it is clear that the interests of your party are on the one hand and those of Catalonia are on the other. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u59	We move on to the agreement for the direct and single reading of the following bills: amending Law 28/1990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre; amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country; and approving the methodology for marking the Basque Country quota for the five-year period 2022-2026, which are processed cumulatively. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, a three-minute shift is opened for the parliamentary groups to determine their position. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u60	Thank you, President. It's bad news. It's bad news. It's bad news. Since it cannot be otherwise, our position will be in favour of this authorization procedure for the single reading of the three bills amending the law of the Navarro Convention, the law of the Economic Concert and the law approving the methodology for the marking of the quota for the Basque Country for the five-year period 2022-2026. The truth is that until 2021 this procedure itself had never been questioned and, in addition, it was voted by assent. Nor was there a debate in this regard on the occasion of the last amendment of the Navarro Convention, which took place just five months ago, and I therefore understand that today will be a matter of opportunism and political partyism for some group. The procedure is very clear: direct and read-only, because the very essence of forality, the pact, requires that there be an agreement between governments, and that is the agreement that is being voted on, a bilateral and agreed agreement that the Courts can only ratify or return, but that cannot be unilaterally amended or modified. It is a procedure for the use of international treaties, so the ordinary procedure followed by other laws is not appropriate. Moreover, constitutional jurisprudence has ratified the thesis that the justification for the application of the single reading procedure lies precisely in the negotiated and agreed nature of the texts processed under this procedural variant. Thus it has been recognized by the Constitutional Court in three judgments that say that the Concert, the quota and, therefore, the Navarro Convention are literally triggered between administrations. In other words, there is a pre-negotiation phase between the two governments which is reflected in a text agreed by both parties and a second phase adopted by way of State legislation in a single article, without amendments of any kind being introduced, as I have said. There is therefore no other procedure. It is therefore a preceptive and legal procedure, which follows what the law of the concert itself says when it says that any modification of this Economic Concert will be done by the same procedure followed for its approval and will be carried out by both administrations by mutual agreement. The Navarro Convention also states this in its article 6. Today, and no matter how hard some people try to say otherwise, this procedure does not mean the loss of any guarantee for the rest of the parliamentary groups, since they can reject or support the aforementioned projects; that is, reject or support the decisions that have been taken, on the one hand, at the meetings of the Joint Concert Commission, held on 17 November and 27 December 2022, as well as within the Navarra Negotiating Commission, at the meeting held on 28 December 2022. This debate will, of course, take place on Thursday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u61	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u62	President, good afternoon again. The single reading procedure, through the urgency procedure, is regulated in article 150 of the Rules of Procedure of the Congress of Deputies, within the special procedures and is justified in cases whose nature advises it or the simplicity of the formulation of the initiative allows it; simplicity or nature of the question, of the initiative, of the draft law. Well, look, what we are going to see, the Basque quota, the Navarro Convention, is provided for in the first additional provision of the Spanish Constitution, which protects the historical rights of the outlying territories - the Constitution we assume and respect, which must be fulfilled - is regulated by the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy. Let's see Article 41 of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country. It turns out that the Basque quota is regulated as follows: The Basque Country will contribute to the support of the general burdens of the State through the provision of a global quota consisting of those corresponding to each of its historical territories. Well, this seems to have to be translated somehow. Law 12/2002 states that the quota marking methodology will be approved for the five-year period, and the current law, which is Law 11/2017, with respect to the quota determination, says in chapter 2: determination of the base year liquid quota. This is what we are going to approve for the single reading procedure, for the urgency procedure, okay? Listen carefully: 'The net amount of the five-year base year 2017-2021 shall be determined by applying the imputation index to the total amount of the charges not borne by the Autonomous Community and by applying the corresponding adjustments and compensations'. Man, some quietness and quietness to know what this precept says would not be wrong to apply the ordinary procedure and not the urgency and the unique reading! Because here there are very strange things to understand. It would be good for experts; it would be good for technicians to value, precisely, the amount of these services provided by the State in the Basque Country, which are: State compensation funds; subsidies and transfers, such as minimum living income; participation in the public debt of the Spanish State or -ah!- the increase in pensions. Come on! And all this in one reading and by the urgency procedure? This is the check you have to pay these gentlemen. This is called living on a cap in the Basque Country! [[points to the seats in the central part of the Chamber]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u63	Thank you. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comú.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u64	Yes, from the seat, very briefly, only to give conformity to the established processing, since, as has already been explained, we are talking about rules that have to do directly with an expression of forality and its negotiated and agreed nature, which cannot be challenged by these Courts. Therefore, a single reading is the right procedure. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u65	Thank you. Mrs Cañizares Pacheco has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u66	Thank you, President. Let's see. To legislate on ordinary matters using extraordinary emergency or special procedures we know that it is the dynamic of the Sánchez government to respond, not to the needs of Spanish society, but to complete the road map of ideology and thus fulfil the pacts with the political parties that made it president, those with which - lying to the Spaniards - he said he will never agree. However, when the situation requires extraordinary urgency because of its gravity, they go to the ordinary procedure, without haste, as they go out on the street and see their convictions as rapists and assailants reduced. All an exercise of interested coherence! Therefore, if we are talking about special procedures, and in particular the one we are dealing with, we believe that direct and one-reading should be used exceptionally for the adoption of legislative initiatives that do not require extensive deliberative process because of the limited political or social relevance of their object or because of the limited technical complexity of their regulation. In the VOX Parliamentary Group we understand that the single reading of these projects referred to in the Navarro Convention, Concert and Basque Cup are no small thing, since we are talking about the allocation of public resources, the budgets and, therefore, the welfare of all Spaniards. [[Applauds]] A debate which, moreover, will be run over and accumulated, and this procedure - as we say - robs this House of the possibility of subjecting these legislative initiatives to an appropriate, rigorous debate in accordance with the importance and importance of these matters. And it is that the reform on the system of autonomous financing for fifteen other autonomous communities has been parked in the ministry, today of Mrs Montero; a system that causes inequality for the Spaniards. However, the ad hoc financing system for a few Spaniards seems to be unable to wait a minute longer. But reform as a minor evil, however, of other laws that endanger women and release rapists is not in a hurry, that yes or yes can wait. Are we therefore faced with a decision of general interest or with a decision of particular interest of the PSOE - also of the PP - in order to remain beneficiary of the PNV's favours? The contribution to the maintenance of public expenditure on all sides, behind the backs of the Spanish, behind the backs of representatives of national sovereignty cannot be agreed. It will be legal, but it is illegitimate, as is this government. Thank you. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u67	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Elorriaga Pisarik has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u68	Thank you, President. They are confused, Lords of Citizens and VOX, by opposing the usual system of dealing with the draft laws of the economic concert and the convention. You are confused because this rule derives directly from the Constitution, and this-you should know and share it - it is not accepted for inventory benefit, with mental reserves or parts; it is a whole that is susceptible to reform, but it is a whole that cannot be traced. Some do not like the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, others are annoyed by the monarchy, some do not want congresses, others hate the autonomous communities. Everyone, no doubt, can defend what he likes, but all, and above all you, should be more scrupulous in respecting the integrity of the constitutional text. [[Applauds]] Our High Court has made this very clear: the Constitution is not the result of an agreement between historical territorial bodies that retain rights prior to the constitutional pact, but rather is a rule emanating from the constituent power, the Spanish people, which is imposed with binding force, without previous historical situations being protected. It is, therefore, of the First Additional Provision and not of the historical legitimacy of these texts, of these historical rights, from which it is obtained its validity and its validity; it has no other origin than the Constitution. And this does not prevent us from ascribing, as do the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Community and the Law on the Reintegration and Improvement of the Navarro Foral Regime, a peaceful character to the rule governing the tax system of the historical territories and their contribution to the maintenance of common expenses. The original power to charge taxes rests exclusively with the State, through law adopted in the General Courts, and this fundamental aspect of the Constitution is perfectly guaranteed precisely with the processing that we are making of these projects. The Basque and Navarra singularity, as well as the canary of the Fourth Additional Provision, do not clash with the Constitution, emanate from it and therefore must be rigorously respected also in this parliamentary process. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Elorriaga. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs García Gurutxaga.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Pick up the jaun-andreok. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the direct and single-reading procedure for three bills concerning the unique financial relationship between the State, the Foral Community of Navarre and the Basque Autonomous Community. As you know, the laws governing both the concert and the convention provide that in the event of a reform of the State's tax law, it will be adapted accordingly. Since the last reforms of the two conventions and agreements, there have been a number of tax changes, including those relating to compliance with European rules on green taxation and the circular economy, and more recently, the establishment of temporary taxes on large energy and banking companies, as well as the creation of the temporary solidarity tax on large fortunes, all of which are signs of the identity of this government led by Pedro Sánchez, who has made cohesion and social justice the fundamental basis for his political action. Therefore, this procedure responds to the will to fulfil the constitutional mandate and the agreements committed by the administrations of the State, the Foral Community of Navarre and the Basque Autonomous Community, and it is a procedure of itself or not, whether to agree or to disagree, because the formula for calculation is the one that it is and the result gives what it gives and does not accept partial amendments; in favour or against. [[Applauds]] And, ladies and gentlemen, we are not faced with a pre-eminence or a supposed claudication in the face of nationalist aspirations, we are faced with an agreement, a pact, which is taken within a framework of mutual loyalty, an agreement which is scrupulously respectful of the principle of solidarity with the whole State. Allow me to remind you, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens and VOX, that you are self-proclaiming constitutionalists and that you share Carnes in this respect, that both the Basque Economic Concert and the Navarra Convention have their anchor in the First Additional Provision of the Spanish Constitution. The adoption of these draft laws therefore fulfils, I would like to reiterate, a constitutional mandate; a Constitution which, in spite of some, recognizes and protects the historical rights of the outlying territories, their self-government and their capacity for tax management in the field of their territory, and which always takes into account, of course, the structure of the State in the area of taxation. That is why, out of consistency with the exercise of civic coexistence that involves complying with the Constitution, with the Statute of Guernica and with the improvement of the Fuero, we ask for the House's agreement to proceed directly and in one reading. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u71	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u72	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-law proposal of the Plural Parliamentary Group on the granting of permits for the prevention of suicide. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, if anything characterizes our time, it is that we have declared war on ourselves, a war against the planet and the climate; a war against the one next door, which is a resource to use or a competitor to step on; and a war against each of us, against our bodies and minds. And this war we're losing, because this war can only be lost. That's why millions of people suffer, and that's why 11 people take their lives in our country every day. The current model of society is not sustained, because it is ecologically inviolable, because it is socially unjust, but also - let us dare to tell the truth - because it is psychologically unbearable. If benzodiazepines, alcohol, caffeine and antidepressants disappeared tomorrow, Spain would collapse, and we all know it here and yet we do as if nothing happened, as if it were normal a model that only survives with tons of psychopharmaceuticals. The vast majority, all at some point we can no longer, we break up; we have the feeling of not doing or never being enough, of having the guilt, of not being up to it or not fitting, of harming ourselves or doing it to whom we want, of living at the frantic rhythm of the screens, of living under the smiling dictatorship of an ideology of success, that hides beneath much loneliness, that hides many frustrations, that hides much anguish, much anger and much sorrow. But it would be wrong if we lived it as a sum of individual cases that multiply because they do. This discomfort doesn't just happen to you, it's not just an individual condition, it's also a period condition, ours, the time of discomfort, and this discomfort has to be politicized. I know it's fashionable now to say that we don't have to politicize things. When someone says you don't have to politicize things, he's saying that you live them alone, that you live them in silence, and that you suffer them alone. Politicizing means that it has causes, that it has solutions, that you can get out of it, but that you don't go out alone, that you go out together, and as a people, that a country is what takes care of you when nobody else takes care of you. This is certainly a phenomenon that has many causes. We live with less and less time for ourselves and for those we want, from home to work and from work to home, with the attention colonized by the screens, without space or time for the things we really like. We are increasingly communicated and yet increasingly alone, without knowing how to take care of ourselves or take care of the rest. We live more and more in fear of the future, of tripping and not getting up, of precariousness, of not being able to raise projects of life, of never having anything stable in life. A policy of the twenty-first century has to take care of what happens to us or will not take care of the time. You have to take care of the right to time and the right to pause, to stop, because no one is free if you don't have time. You have to take care of a universal basic income that guarantees the right to a free existence, free from fear at the end of the month, free from burden, free from knowing whether you will be able to pay a roof, free from knowing whether you will be able to form a family, and you have to take care of a radical distribution of wealth so that tranquility does not depend on your inheritance or on your postal code. It is true, however, that a more just, democratic and freer society would not end the pain, life would continue to hurt because it is consistent with our human condition, but in the meantime we can do much to democratize the right to help. Life doesn't have to hurt so much and so many, there doesn't have to be so much inequality in the sharing of pain and so much inequality in the sharing of comfort. It's true that pain doesn't understand classes, but help, the right to help, it does understand classes. It is those who lead tougher lives who have the most difficulty to name what happens to them, to receive help to deal with it, to receive tools to take care of, and that costs pain and costs lives, even though they are often pain and lives that are claimed and suffered in silence. We ripped the mental health taboo two years ago. At first, we received laughter; then there was more attention. We speak for the first time in this Congress words like Lexatin, Diazepam, eating disorders, suicide, schizophrenia or depression, and today there is less and less shame. It is true that this is a cultural battle and a cultural victory for all, but it is not enough. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to discuss resources, because, if not, the difference between comfort or comfort, the difference between loneliness or company, between being unarmed or having tools to deal with what you are going to do will continue depending on whether you have 70 euros a week to go to therapy. This is a political distribution of pain and is a morally unacceptable and humanly unsustainable distribution. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, public policies are needed to guarantee the right to mental health. That costs money, but it saves pain and saves lives. They have heard us say that we need to multiply the PIR places so that there are more psychologists in the public. It can't be that when you go to the primary care center they tell you that the next appointment is for a year. We have heard that guidance is needed in public institutes, which are often the first line to detect problems, to prevent them, to catch them in time. We have heard that more places are needed in the day centers, with more doctors, with more nurses and with the right to stay as long as you need, not as if treated as a number. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, do not congratulate us again on addressing this issue, put sufficient resources in public health for mental health to be a right. Today we come to bring you a concrete, simple, cheap and immediate proposal for an urgent problem with one of its most brutal and harsher effects. Every day eleven people take their lives in Spain because they can no longer, I repeat, eleven a day. It is clear that this is a failure as a country, but it is that many more people try and many more give signals without anyone paying attention and answering those signals. Ladies and gentlemen, accompaniment is key; being alone multiplies depression or suicidal will; being able to have someone next door can make a difference. Relatives or loved ones of people at risk of suicide also suffer immense pressure, often have to go to work without knowing if their loved one is going to be home when they return from work, and that also has consequences for the family's own mental health. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing a simple and immediate measure which we have urged the Government and which we are bringing to this House today, namely that doctors should be able to grant workers who have been diagnosed with suicide for up to two weeks from now. Believe me, it saves lives and democratizes the right to care. It's over, Mr. President. I thank the associations that have been working for the right to mental health for a long time, I thank the political forces that have helped and that express that they are going to vote in favour, and we ask them to help make this initiative a commitment of public policy, of political priority for Spain of the twenty-first century: that life does not hurt so many and that comfort and help are not a privilege for those who can afford it, but a right for all. In a society that wants to stop the war against ourselves, it's the only way to win it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. In order to defend the amendments put forward by the groups, the Joint Parliamentary Group - which will also fix its position at this time - intervenes, first of all, Mr Martínez Oblanca.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. I support the measures aimed at urging the Government to carry out necessary legal reforms to implement a permit to accompany people at risk of suicide. Mr Errejón Galván has provided disturbing data on the growth of self-harm behaviour, which corresponds to very vulnerable people immersed in a phase of high suicidal ideation, which can and should be alleviated with the support of a caregiver. It would be extremely useful to provide this companion with paid work permits with public funds, in line with this parliamentary initiative. However, I have tabled an addendum amendment, because the worrying increase in the number of suicides - which in the case of young people is already the main cause of non-natural death - requires the urgent adoption of prevention and intervention measures, as well as subsequent actions in the family environment and close to a self-destructive episode, especially of a teenager. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the warnings of international reference bodies, we do not have a national prevention plan in Spain, as mental health specialists also call for, to deal with the increase in the number of suicides. At the request of the Ministry of Health there is only for ten months the telephone line 024 Call Life, which joins the Telephone of Hope - more than half a century of operation - and the task of other solidarity entities, but in our country we need a specific state plan that coordinates and updates the strategies and autonomous protocols for the prevention, detection and management of suicidal behaviors. This is a matter which, because of its extreme gravity, requires absolute priority and resources. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Oblanca. Mrs Vehi Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u77	Thank you, President. Today More Country presents a necessary initiative: to guarantee the work permit of accompaniment in case of risk of suicide. In Catalonia alone, in 2019, more than 400 people were killed and it is the second leading cause of death among young people aged fifteen to twenty-nine, and it also has a higher impact on people with precarious socio-economic situations. The United Nations, in 2019, warned that the Kingdom of Spain is the territory where the most benzodiazepines in the world - sleeping pills, anxiolytics and muscle relaxants - are consumed, but also a lot of antidepressants. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u78	Your Honor, just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u79	Yeah, I see your lordships didn't just care about this mental health thing.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u80	One moment, please. I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u81	I repeat, I'm sure you're familiar with them: sleeping pills, anxiolytics, muscle relaxants, antidepressants... We have become a society of junkies to endure the unbearable, societies that hide the pain of the soul, such as the price of not stopping, societies that do not take psychological suffering seriously and that solve it with pills: sadness, pills; blocking, pills; despair, pills. Hiding the pain of the soul only generates more suffering, and fear colonizes every minute is not solved with pills. Suicide is a complex phenomenon, but it has a clear class perspective. People need hope in the form of rights, that there are psychiatrists in the public, not waiting months to see a psychologist, not having to go to private visits that they can't afford. People need a universal basic income. It has already been said, less beautiful words and more rights. And I end with a message that is not for you, but for the thousands of people who think or have thought about taking their lives: there is hope, you can stop suffering; there is a way out, you ask for help; to speak, it is often to prevent. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u82	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u83	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President. No, Mr Errejón, I am not here to congratulate you on your initiative but to put it in the right context, because, like all, it is always improveable. That is to say, it is a common concern because, whatever the situation, whether many or few, are simply irreversible attempts or situations, are the result of a situation that causes it or the conclusion of a disease, whether mental or not, the truth is that suicide has become not only a scourge but one of the most important causes of early death and, what is worse - and as your GNP says - in a situation where the most immediate environment has a feeling of frustration, of almost shame, that in which many of us wondered whether we could do something, if we could have predicted it, if we did enough to avoid it, etc. That is why we share with you your concern for trying to prevent it or for trying to avoid it; this is because of the measures that, apart from the personal ones, we can make available to society to avoid that harsh reality. And that's where we somehow intend to criticize your GNP and put it in a better situation. Thus, from a well-intentioned prism, it suggests a public action with which we agree, but in three prisms. One, health care, while it must be a professional who warns of the existence of a probable risk - it is the medical task - in the sense of understanding that someone and for whatever reasons he might try to end his life, but also the opportunity and convenience of the accompanying measure. That's the gear. Two, the most personal and difficult to achieve, that of the accompaniment, to the extent that, being the feeling of loneliness or isolation a determining factor in almost all cases of the possibility of taking one's life, it seems sensible to conclude that the company is a good palliative. But, I see, that this part, even though it seems simple, is possibly the most complex and the most difficult solution. And three, the socio-occupational measures which, with all due respect, we believe can be improved, because although they have been formulated with all intent, there are comparative elements in law that allow them to be used for their solution. Thus, by going back to the first, to health, one must be able to provoke almost naturally, either because the patient claims it or because someone in his environment claims from the health field the realization of the risk and the need for accompaniment as a preventive measure also in the health order. The second, linked to the first, is that which I have commented is that relating to the concretion of the accompanying person. Here I have to tell you that, in the face of the apparent candidity of your approach, from the unknown, I ask myself some questions. Who of that personal environment decides who is suitable for this accompanying function? Can the recipient himself decide, because that is also something really difficult? Are we sure about that? And that health care professional to whom that responsibility must be transferred so that he can make that decision? And in case of a dispute between several, who?, judicializing the decision? This is, of course, the most difficult of all the questions raised in its non-law proposal and which can be raised in this context. And the third, however, seems to me the easiest, because it is the one with precedents that can be approved in the legal system, because we are talking about a work permit for the accompanying person and, moreover, that this permit must be remunerated by the era. Only by way of example, there is an acceptable assumption in the recently modified permit for parents caring for persons with serious illnesses, which is contained in the third paragraph of article 37.6 of the Workers'Statute, which would suffice with a small modification, together with a social security system benefit as provided for in articles 190 to 192 of the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act. The aim is to find a solution that will enable the accompanying person to gain material access to these accompanying and caring functions for persons at imminent risk of suicide. We therefore understand that we have wanted to contribute by specifying the mandate not in a situation of indeterminateness, but in that for which the Congress urges the Government to carry out these reforms, because there are several that would have to act to implement these measures and certainly some others in which, because of my ignorance and the ignorance of everyone of what is this area, we can always improve them with debate and agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u84	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Giménez Giménez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u85	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, Citizens have made clear, both in plenary and in the committees, in our daily work, our commitment to mental health. It is a priority in our political action, especially given the impact that the pandemic has had on the well-being of the Spaniards. In fact, as you will recall, it was Citizens' first party to put this problem on the table in the Social and Economic Reconstruction Commission of COVID, which completed its work in 2020. Since then, in Citizens we have continued to work hard to cope with this silent epidemic that is ruining the lives of thousands and thousands of people. Thus, we have presented in this House a series of measures aimed at improving mental health care, preventing emotional management problems and facilitating families' access to psychological and professional care. Some of these solutions were presented by our parliamentary group in the debate on the state of the nation last July. What are we meeting? With that, although it is an issue on which we must show sensitivity the whole House, being a proposal of Citizens, we were automatically told no. It's the raw reality. It was the other political parties that decided not to support our measures, which are effective measures, measures contrasted with experts and without any ideology, Your Honor. All we wanted was to improve people's lives. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen, it was Citizens who presented a number of proposals in the Budget Act for this year 2020. We insisted, they were also measures and a series of proposals that the only thing they were looking for was the improvement in the lives of those people who suffer from mental health problems and their families, as well as improving access to psychology professionals and psychiatry professionals. Unfortunately, not even this extreme situation moved the House, because what we were told automatically was that we were not accepted. Not even More Country accepted the proposals made by Citizens. And what were our proposals? Our proposals were not at all ideological, ladies and gentlemen. What we wanted, and they voted that not the partners of the government and the government itself in bloc, was to approve a national suicide prevention plan. That's what they said not two hands, ladies and gentlemen. And we are very sorry because, as has been said in this House, suicide is the cause for which young people are dying in a very unfortunate way. Eleven Spaniards take their lives in our country every day. It is a very important issue and they voted no to a national suicide prevention plan, and they voted no to establish protocols for the detection of harassment and cyberbullying. Because you don't have to be any expert to know that on many occasions behind people's unfortunate suicide there is harassment, either by certain people in a work environment or in a social media or Internet environment. This can be done in educational establishments and can also be done in work centres. Therefore, a specific protocol for the detection of harassment and cyberbullying is needed. What did they say no to? To promote prevention campaigns with influencers and leading personalities in the world of entertainment or sport. For what? To make all those people who are in that unfortunate reality see that they are not alone, that they can have support and that there are people who have overcome these kinds of issues. They also said that professional ratios of psychology and psychiatry will not increase to one per 5,000 inhabitants. Currently, we find a totally inadequate ratio, which makes many middle-class families unable to go to therapy or consultation to address their mental health problems by professionals. They've told us no, ladies and gentlemen. Instead, we say yes to our commitment to mental health, to this unfortunate reality of suicide. That is why what we do is improve initiatives. That is why we want to support such an initiative, because we don't care who presents the initiative. What we want is for our amendment to be accepted, which proposes that it be explicitly collected by the Government to facilitate the adoption of measures to achieve the destigmatization of mental health problems in the workplace. We believe that this is a necessary and necessary step towards creating these permits, which the proposing group is proposing and which will also improve their adoption by companies and workers. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u86	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor, Mrs Medel Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u87	Good afternoon. United We may think that a permit to accompany people at risk of suicide limited to two weeks is a somewhat poor solution, but we understand what is required by the non-law proposal and, of course, also the need to accompany a person with suicidal ideation. Our group believes that, despite this type of initiative, suicide prevention requires a suicide prevention protocol; a protocol to be carried out by the Ministry of Health agreed with the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, which should include, for example, the following: providing close and continuous follow-up to people with suicide attempts. We believe that your GNP would come to this point. Another point that needs to be addressed is the coordination between emergency health services, mental health teams and primary care services, as well as other emergency devices, because initiatives, for example, such as that of the ministry on line 024 - which is a line of care for suicidal behaviour, currently managed by at least 38 Red Cross professionals - will have little efficiency if people who are cared for on that phone are not able to access after that primary mental health care professionals or emergency health services, because they are simply collapsed or uncoordinated. This protocol that I propose is part of article 30, which, together with articles 31 and 32, make up chapter III of our proposal for a mental health law, which addresses the issue of suicide: a law that has been amending for more than a year. Everyone here talks about these small plots, as if they were the only ones talking about mental health, but the only party that has presented a law here, the only political group, has been United Podemos. [[Applauds]] And there's the law, and there it will continue, as we all know, right?, above all, as it goes. Twice has registered United We can propose a law in favor of the rights of people with mental health problems because, since the establishment in 1983 of the ministerial commission for psychiatric reform that gave rise to the deinstitutionalization of people with mental health disorders, nothing has been done. Law 16/2003 itself included mental health care as an integral part of primary and specialized care, but we all know that it does not work. According to Eurostat, in Spain there are 11 psychiatrists per 100,000 inhabitants, half of them in countries such as France, Germany or Sweden. The Government has done things, such as creating the specialty of child psychiatry, has increased the number of places, although not exactly how many should be, and the Ministry of Health has provided €100 million up to 2024 in a Mental Health Action Plan. Okay, but it's insufficient. One of the main problems our mental health care system has is real inaccessibility. People who have money can pay a psychologist or a psychiatrist, and those who don't have money just don't get it. Therefore, our mental health law establishes time guarantees and staff ratios in order to facilitate and extend access to public care in the mental health of the National Health System. Mr Errejón, your GNP seems to us to be well-intentioned, although we consider it to be a small parcel, a patch, although we do not reject that patch, much less. We need, I believe, a mental health law that comprehensively addresses all the problems, including suicide; in the meantime, we have signed an amendment with the Socialist Party, and if you accept it, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u88	Thank you. Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. The first thing I want is to send a hug to all those who have lost a loved one by suicide. I wouldn't want to politicize the pain, but join that pain. [[Applauds]] I want to join the unbearable suffering that you are living and the family injury that will remain to you forever. Suicide is the first non-natural cause of death in Spain. The 4,000 people who died in 2021 constitute a record number and, as has already been said here, eleven people die a day from suicide. We can continue to incide into the scandal of statistics that show us a very painful reality, but there is a particular fact that freezes the blood, and it is that between the fifteen and twenty-nine years suicide is the first cause of absolute death, more than traffic accidents, more than tumors. Ladies and gentlemen, what youth are we forming? This failure, this unbearable social tragedy, has responsibilities, and our obligation is to analyse them. We think that society is moving forward, moving forward and moving forward, and it is not true, it is often not true; it touches to stop, it touches to reflect without prejudices, without complexes, trying to analyze the true causes, even if it only serves for one person not to throw himself on the tracks of the train. Ladies and gentlemen, when someone commits suicide, many times he does not seek to die, he seeks to escape. He's a deeply wounded person, he's a person who needs help, a help he can't find, a help he doesn't have and a help he doesn't get.Why? Because we are creating a deeply advanced social model in individualism, progressing in selfishness; an uprooted society, an absolutely materialistic society, and all this has to do with suicide, it has to do with mental health. Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken over the community. How will he not invite to suicide a model of resentment and confrontation between men and women; hundreds of men commit suicide because they are involved in eternal proceedings in courts of exception, falsely accused, and who stop seeing their children forever. [[Applauds]] One absolutely scandalous figure around suicides that has not been heard in this rostrum is that of the 4,000 suicides in 2021, 3000 were males, 75% of suicides. [[The lady]] We do not have a Ministry of Equality that has already done five prevention protocols. [[Applauds]] Why? Because 75% are men. How are you not going to invite suicide to a model of loneliness, of social isolation, a model in which 5 million households are single-person and when 40% of those 5 million households are people over the age of sixty-five? How are you not going to invite suicide to a model of winter and hell and abortion, a model of social fragmentation, of uprooting. How will he not invite suicide to a model of job and social precariousness; a model with a risk of poverty of 13 million Spaniards; a model of humming, which is nothing more than a model of shared zulos and precariousness; a model that confined 47 million Spaniards, and a model that encourages addictions. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have come here to discuss a cannabis law when 50% of consumers have suicidal ideas or have tried to commit suicide. [[Applauds]] It is a model of frustration of identity and personality, a model of annulment of the spiritual and exaltation of the material. How will not bring to suicide the global, homogeneous and grey world that does not want us free men, wants us obedient consumers! Ladies and gentlemen, we need to think very seriously about this, we need to reflect on the causes that protect us from suicide, as we have seen in some study of the Observatory of Biopolitics: family unity and cohesion, emotional strength, children, belonging, the sense of life, re-establishing a community. I'm done, Madam President. It is not enough to scandalize ourselves, we have to act; it is not enough to say how bad suicide is and how bad statistics are, we have to be brave, we have to bet on what makes us strong as a community, even if it is politically incorrect. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause of the Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Meer. For the Socialist Group, Mr Anguita Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u91	Thank you very much, Madam President. For a moment, Mrs De Meer, I thought you were talking about the 2030 Agenda and the dangers of capitalism, until you - I will say - had the little shame of mixing feminism with suicides. [[Applauds]] We must have little political class, we must have little social class and, above all, very little education and respect for those families that are suffering the tragedy of suicide. What's more, you've made it look like we have to think if feminism can harm men. I'm going to ask you a question - I've already thought about it, the answer is no -: putting a sign against a minor alien on a subway to point them out as a State target has no responsibility whatsoever on minors? Well, you do, gentlemen, and you put up a cartel against unaccompanied foreign minors in Madrid. [[Applauds]] You're chasing the minors. Ladies and gentlemen, we would be irresponsible if we did not know the gravity of the issue we are discussing today. Mental health, care and prevention are issues that must be treated with great respect, and in particular the prevention of suicide. It may well be one of the worst circumstances a person can face, not only her, but also her family. The number of people who have taken their lives annually in this country has grown from 1,500 in 1980 to nearly 4,000 who do so annually. I would like to make special mention of the case of suicide attempts by minors. The ANAR Foundation presented a couple of months ago a study in which a dramatic data was given. Between 2020 and 2022 there were 1949 suicide attempts by children and adolescents. It's a reality that we don't like, but it's a reality that's there, in our homes, in our classrooms, in our workplaces and in our surroundings, and before that our obligation is to solve this scenario. That is why this Government has already promoted concrete, specific and cross-cutting proposals to put an end to this reality, to help those who need it most. There are two spaces, ladies and gentlemen, where I want to focus. One, where we can all collaborate, because we still have a way to go to end once and for all with the damn stigmatization to which the people who resort to professional help to take care of their mental health, but not only suffer the patients, but their relatives and also those who care about them. Not two years ago Mr Errejón asked the President of the Government about the plans we had in mental health and someone yelled at him: so go to the doctor. That is not going to happen here today, because that Member, like society, has advanced towards respect and empathy. Secondly, something that is already being done by the Spanish Government, which is taking responsibility for it, and has endorsed the social demands which urged public administrations to respond to this problem. Facts, and not just words, are what is defining us as government. The Mental Health Strategy, which had not been updated since 2009, has been updated. It has been based on the contributions of patient associations, family members, scientists and also the autonomous communities. This strategy, which will continue until 2026, promotes the prevention of suicidal behaviour, mental health and also family interaction. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System approved last May the Mental Health Action Plan 2022-2024, with 100 million euros and which we hope can become one of the fundamental pillars of the National Health System. And finally, the creation of a confidential, free, accessible and, above all, prejudice-free help service, such as telephone 024. Ladies and gentlemen, as of October last year, 62,500 calls had been received and 1,200 suicides were identified. Yes, Mr Errejón, we still have a long way to go and that is why we want to approve this non-law proposal. That is why we have also tabled, together with our fellow Members from the United Nations, an amendment which I will explain very briefly in order to be concise, because we not only propose but also commit ourselves to it. Firstly, that such a permit will be granted by a collegiate professional who attends to the high-risk situation; that such a permit must be requested by the patients; that it is they and the patients and the patients who will designate the person who will accompany them throughout this process, and it is further agreed that the maximum duration of this permit will be fifteen days. Finally, and this is the compromise, ladies and gentlemen, we Socialists do not understand any right that has to be bought, because that makes it a privilege. That is why our commitment that the financing of this permit will never mean that the accompanying person has to give up his salary. I'm done, Madam President. The pandemic showed us the importance of personal health and our environment. Mental health, as it cannot be otherwise, must be treated in a comprehensive and prejudice-free manner. This legislature continues to advance and there will be no pandemic, no volcano or war at the gates of Europe that diverts us from our objectives: to continue to recognize new rights to guarantee the labour dignity, wage dignity, social dignity and health dignity of this society. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Anguita. Mrs Pozueta Fernández has the floor in position-setting by the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Get out of the way. The subject of this non-legislative proposal is a subject on which we have awakened in recent years. There was, yes, but they're quiet. I can say that all the people we are in this Chamber lived more or less close to the reality of suicide, but until recently, for different reasons, it was taboo and, as other issues that are often appreciated, if not named, do not exist. This silence has prevented action to find solutions. In most of the interventions today we are providing the same data, let us remember that WHO warns that we are faced with one of the biggest public health problems and that suicide is among the three main causes of non-accidental death in the world and, as has been said, the first among young people in the Spanish State. In the case of youth, this is a growing public health problem, a major socio-health problem. We recognize that most people who opt for suicidal behaviour are suffering. What they seek is to live in a situation different from that they live in, without the problems or suffering they suffer. We are told to move from words to facts, to put tools in place to ensure that there is hope and perspective for the future in people's lives. The causes of suicidal behaviour are multifactorial: there are predisposing factors and there are also risk factors. There are potentially predictable factors that, with early identification and appropriate treatment, could substantially reduce the number of cases and improve the health of individuals at risk. Talking about suicide openly and sincerely can offer the person the opportunity to consider other options or the time to rethink that option, so it would be the first step or action to prevent suicide. In recent years we have heard from mental health professionals critical of the scarcity of effective and rigorous strategies evaluated for treatment and suicide prevention, demanding the need for a state plan, in addition to shared common plans. The ministry's response has been to include the main recommendations for the prevention of suicide and suicidal behaviour in a mental health plan2022-2024. I would therefore like to make a reference to the Inter-Agency Protocol on Prevention and Action against Suicide in Navarra, a protocol that has been a reference and a pioneer throughout the State. It is clear from this that the phenomenon of suicide requires, for a correct approach, the attention of various public authorities, not only health authorities, but also civil society organisations, and this is a good example. Some of the demands that are made in this GNP are reflected in this protocol with more than one. We share the need for an accompanying permit for people at high risk of suicide to be cared for and accompanied and to be financed with public funds so that the accompanying person does not give up his or her salary. But let us not forget that the guarantee that such non-cracked protocols can be carried out is in the care of the public, both of health and of education, the real axes of desensitization, information, prevention and attention to the reality of suicide. It will be of no use if professional care and follow-up in public services are not guaranteed, both for the person who has had suicidal behaviour and for accompanying his or her nearest environment, friends and family. Let us not forget that cuts and the lack of public investment run counter to a universal suicide prevention strategy. We shall vote in favour. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u94	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pozueta. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u95	Thank you, President. Before we begin, I wanted to express my solidarity and our support for the comrades of the PSOE and El Escorial for the difficult times they are experiencing. [[Applauds]] In fact, people who choose to commit suicide do not really want to die, but to end their suffering. As we have said here, it is a matter of pain, of deep suffering. In some ways suicide is the solution to your problems. But to get an idea of the problem we are raising, I wanted to show some shocking data, many of which have already been commented on here. During the year 2022 there were 4003 suicides in the Spanish state, 10% more than before the COVID. Every day there are eleven suicides, as has been repeated here, twice as many as traffic accidents; in fact, suicide is the main cause of unnatural death in the Spanish State. Therefore, we face a first-class structural problem, which we must face from multisectoral approaches, and it is that suicide is often only the tip of the mental health iceberg and, therefore, treatment must be comprehensive and contemplating all its complexity. There is one issue that is fundamental: the approach. It is important that we focus on suicide and mental health. The Spanish health system often reduces suicide to a biomedical approach to mental disorder and therefore invests more in psychopharmaceuticals than in other resources that could precisely reverse suicidal behavior. That the main cause of death among young people from fifteen to twenty-nine years of age during the year 2022 was suicide should cause us to reflect. It is not that it is a sicker generation, much less, that it is really a much deeper social and structural problem. We must therefore incorporate a socio-economic vision, as well as - and that is fundamental - the social vulnerability component, which affects precisely the weakest groups. We talk about young people, we talk about people with disabilities, about people who have suffered aggression, also with gender bias and, why not, about those who are in very complex economic situations, but also about the homeless and the dispossessed - we all know cases of suicide - and also about migrants in very complex situations. Therefore, there is a huge social component, and however much moralist discourse we give here we cannot give up, much less, that more complex socio-economic vision that we currently have. [[Applauds]] Therefore, with this approach it becomes more relevant aspects such as, for example, social stigmatization. It is estimated that there are between 30 and 40% undercover suicides, which are not included in official statistics. On the one hand, it has to be raised from the Community's attention, from the continuousist attention, from the follow-up and, on the other hand, the accompaniment is essential. According to WHO, for each suicide committed, there are estimated to be twenty attempts, so there has to be an accompaniment to try to reverse this cause. Therefore, accompaniment is fundamental, because the best ally of suicidal thinking is loneliness and we must value the role of those who accompany in suffering, as proposed by this proposed law. In this regard, I repeat, care must be comprehensive, from the promotion of health, prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, as well as the social and labour integration of even the affected persons. For all this - and I wanted to make reference to this - resources are needed. The National Pact of Mental Health of Catalonia has managed, as an interdepartmental programme, that in the budgets of this year 2023 521 million are allocated in mental health, 49 million more than the budgets of 2022 - therefore, 10.4% - resources that will be invested in an increase of human resources and of day hospitals. Our parliamentary group has also advocated here in Congress that we should devote greater economic effort to mental health. And how? At the time, we tabled an amendment to add an additional 16 million to the 43 million budgeted in the Mental Health Action Plan - 3.32 million to consolidate the idea of suicide abstention and 40 for the autonomous communities. Therefore, we were very much aware of the momentum that needs resources. But I insist again, and I'm done with this. It is not just a problem of resources, but of where and how they are invested. And one thing is obvious, perhaps we should invest more in prevention than in cure. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs Romero Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u97	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are talking about something as important as mental health, whose most devastating consequence is suicide, is taking your life. That is why I also want to move, first of all, on behalf of myself and that of my parliamentary group, our affection and support for all those who have lost a loved one in these terrible circumstances. Suicide has become the leading cause of death among young people in our country. Four thousand people committed suicide last year, and the data on increased suicidal thoughts among young people, up to 10%, are terribly worrying. Mental health must be a thing for everyone and we must take care of it all, and this has become evident more than ever in the pandemic. Experts and the World Health Organization had already warned that it was the outstanding subject. Today, mental health is more than ever in the public debate, and there is no doubt that it is an opportunity; it is the concern of the whole of society and it is urgent to act. More Country proposes this proposal: approve a paid permit for a relative or companion when the person is at imminent risk of suicide. Mr Errejón, we share the concern and the need to prevent risk factors, to act with preventive measures, especially in the most vulnerable groups and groups of people, but this proposal, frankly, seems to us to be weak, far from the professional approach and with important indefinitions and gaps for its implementation. Because I ask you, and you have to ask yourself, what requirements must this family member or companion meet to take on such an important responsibility? Do you think that without training anyone could live up to those circumstances? And what professional do you have to give that permission? Because it doesn't make that clear either. He talks about professional, but who would he be? A nurse? A therapist? A doctor? A psychiatrist? It doesn't make that clear either. And why do these permits last up to two weeks? Why two weeks? Why not three weeks? What professional criterion is there to establish this limit? And why not listen more to the assessment of professionals, which is what your proposal particularly suffers from? To make decisions about health and health care, the first thing is to listen and rely on experts, because when there is a high risk of suicide, psychiatrists, psychologists, therapists, mental health nurses are needed and to implement all the social, health and care resources that are required. In short - I repeat - professionals are needed. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said here - and I too agree with this - that it is urgent to adopt a national plan for the prevention of suicide, as most European countries have, as the professionals and associations of people affected by suicide have been demanding, as requested by the People's Party and as approved in the Commission for Reconstruction, and it has not been launched. Let's not start the house on the roof with an isolated measure instead of making an integral approach with a theme of enormous magnitude, but above all it deserves a lot of respect. Let's get out of the way. And where is the Ministry of Health? Four ministers in four years - already in a short time, it is supposed to be the fifth - and more busy in the electoral screening of their candidate ministers for communities and municipalities than if they were leading such important issues as this and putting in place that suicide prevention plan that is urgent in this country. [[Applauds]] There are no doctors in all of Spain, no psychiatrists, no psychologists. And the Ministry of Health, when will it respond to a problem of enormous magnitude throughout the national territory? For, again, the Ministry of Health is neither expected nor expected, because it is in opposition to the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party. The Madrid Community recently approved a suicide prevention plan which is a benchmark, with 45 million euros, only half for Madrid of all that the Ministry of Health plans to invest in mental health in all of Spain. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Errejón, I do not doubt your concern about mental health; we are also concerned, but what is urgent is that suicide prevention plan, as approved by the Commission for Reconstruction, and that is why today more than ever in this House we have to demand the Ministry of Health to lead this matter, to act on this matter which is of great national urgency. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Mr Errejón, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u99	We'll let you know as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u100	All right, thank you very much. - THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON GUARANTEEING EQUAL ACCESS TO CANCER TREATMENTS IN ALL NATIONAL TERRITORY. [[File number 162/001146]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u101	We continue with the non-law proposal of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on ensuring equal access to cancer treatments throughout the national territory. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u102	Thank you, President. During the pandemic we have learned many things, and one of them has been that the evil so-called National Health System is deficient in many respects. From the beginning, because it was not a system, there were many; because it is not national, autonomous, and because health is something that goes through neighborhoods. The management of the National Health System by all Spanish governments for decades has been deficient. They confused decentralization with the dismantling of the Ministry of Health and, on the other hand, made the Health Administration an end in itself. They undertook to discuss competences, to create charges, to remove robes and to put neck ties in the health system, to the point that, obsessed with making the politician feel important and powerful, they forgot the health care system and, more importantly, they forgot the right to health of the citizen. We have seen in recent years an absolutely dismantled ministry, empty of competences. We have seen 17 health systems that had problems communicating with each other during the pandemic because they used different data accumulation programmes and a primary care that did not fall apart, but that was very close and that endured thanks to health personnel, but with poor resources, serious staffing problems and many hours of waiting for users is not something to be satisfied with today. All Spaniards have suffered from these deficiencies in primary care. Well, all this gets worse in a very specific group: cancer patients. During the pandemic, diagnoses and treatments have been delayed, and many personal situations have been aggravated. In addition, the great inequalities in dealing with cancer have been highlighted, because the worsening of the situation further distanced the differences between one autonomous community and another. We bring you here today a proposal that seeks to eliminate inequality in access to detection, treatment and care for cancer patients. There are important socio-economic factors, including environmental, food and geographical factors, but there is a particularly bloody element from a political perspective. I ask you: how do you feel about this campaign of the Spanish Association against Cancer? [[Show a brochure]] I read them: your postal code affects more than your genetic code in inequality against cancer. This is exactly the way it is. Do you know that depending on which autonomous community you live in, do you have more or less chance of detecting colon cancer in time, for example? If you live in the Vasco Country, they have a greater chance of detecting colon cancer than if you live in another of the seven autonomous communities that do not have screening tests for all people at risk for this type of cancer, who are all those between fifty and sixty-nine years old, and who are the cancer that causes the most deaths after lung cancer. Early detection in this type of cancer is vital; literally, vital. You have a better chance of living if colon cancer catches you in the Basque Country. Does this statement seem normal to you? It's not normal, but it's true. When cancer is diagnosed, many patients need psychological help. 30% of patients need the help of a clinical psychologist. Well, twelve - I mean, twelve - autonomous communities do not have this specific attention, in practice they do not have psychological care. And I ask: does it seem normal to you that psychological help for cancer depends on having the fortune of being in one of the five autonomous communities that do have it? It's not normal, but it's the truth. And what happens if palliative care is needed? If you are from Murcia, Ceuta, Melilla or Basque Country you will have palliative care without many problems. In the rest of Spain, access to palliative care is much more complicated. I ask: Does it seem normal to you that in the last phase of a disease you suffer more or less depending on the autonomous community in which you live? It's not normal, but it's true. And exactly the same thing happens with access to drugs. For example, a drug for breast cancer, Kisqali. In Valencia, a patient has access to it around three and a half weeks. In Murcia and Catalonia, in seven months. Can you imagine what this means for the treatment of breast cancer? Nivolumab for lung cancer. The time to access it in Extremadura is one month; in Ceuta, 33 months. For lung cancer, the most lethal of those known. Do you think it's normal all this I'm telling you? No, it's not normal, but it's true. We propose the following measures to improve this situation. To end the existing territorial inequalities in diagnosis and treatment of cancer by working with the autonomous communities. Work with primary health care professionals on training and information. Primary care is very important for early detection. Promote the widespread deployment of registered clinics for the specialized treatment of different types of cancer. Emphasize the role of nursing staff in cancer treatment processes and protocols. Nursing is underutilized in virtually all aspects of the health system. Ensure the flow of simple, accessible, honest and truthful information for patients and their families. Establish, with the help of the autonomous communities and hospital managers, multidisciplinary teams for the treatment of cancer cases, thus ensuring the best possible hospital care and a more precise treatment for the patient and his type of cancer. Look, in Spain today the National Health System is an empty concept, because the reality is that there are 17 health systems, 17 unequal systems, 17 unequal attentions and unequal opportunities. And we are talking about the worst of inequalities, because we are used to hearing here about many kinds of inequality, that there are and that must be combated, but it is, the inequality that I am talking about here today, is the worst of all, the hardest, because here we are talking about a difference that can involve life or death. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. For the defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Guitarte Gimeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, cancer is one of the most prevalent diseases in our country, I am not saying anything new. It is therefore necessary and valid for Congress to discuss and discuss how the health system can act on cancer, how people who suffer from cancer experience it, or the most appropriate way to prevent it. As stated in the explanatory statement and confirmed by the Spanish Cancer Registry Network, the number of cancers diagnosed in Spain in 2022 is estimated at 280 000, while the incidence is expected to reach 341,000 by 2040. There are hundreds of thousands of people who have fought, fought or will have to fight this disease in the future. Scientific research, the work of healthcare professionals and technical advances have made it possible to improve data against the disease, but we still have a lot of work to do and very important. To optimize the intervention capacity of the health system it is necessary to take advantage of synergies and coordinate resources, overcoming dysfunctions in the administrative and organizational order. The explanatory statement of the GNP focuses on fragmentation, taking advantage of this word, I understand, to point out the fragmentation of the health system in the management of the autonomous communities. In that approach we disagree in part. We think in this regard that the current cancer strategy of the National Health System should better consider the distances to be travelled by people suffering from cancer. This means, on the one hand, overcoming the barrier effect on the autonomous limits that affects, above all, some bordering regions, but only that. But, above all, because of its wider scope, it means correcting the gap of social inequality that is observed within almost all the autonomous communities and that is marked, from our point of view, by two reasons. On the one hand, due to the proximity or remoteness, measured at a temporary distance, of the patient's residence to a large hospital with teams of specialists and technical treatment, which severely harms residents in rural areas and small cities and is increased by the limitations of the hospital network in the less populated provinces. And, on the other hand, because of the degree of effectiveness that the health system of each autonomous community achieves by applying prevention strategies to the population. So, it is certainly essential to improve coordination between autonomic health systems to minimize travel distances for the care of cancer patients and other diseases, just as it is essential to share data and improve protocols. Prevention of the disease must also be improved. In this regard, we believe that it is necessary to continue to improve and deepen the analysis and measures of the cancer strategy of the National Health System. From our point of view, and for this we have tabled amendments, it is mandatory to improve the care of patients who are to live with the disease living in locations away from the hospital which has adequate staff and equipment. It should be noted that professionals remind us that for a treatment of ten minutes in many cases it is necessary to travel more than two and three hours, 200 and 300 kilometers between return and return, plus waiting time in sick people. This is what happens, for example, to people in our province and others, as indicated in the map of the Spanish Association Against Cancer, which shows the number of radiation therapy units per province. [[Show a chart]] As you can see, in Spain there are still five Spanish provinces, namely Palencia, Soria, Ávila, Huesca and Teruel, which still do not have a single radiation therapy unit per province, and this assumes that there are still people in empty Spain who have to travel more than two and a half hours away and many others back to a hospital that can provide them with the service they need to cure their disease. For this reason, one of our amendments calls for an improvement in the staffing and distribution in the hospital network, both of the professionals and of the treatment apparatus, so that at least one hospital in each province has the equipment for the treatment of palliative radiation therapy. Along the same lines, there is also the possibility of additional use of satellite units, i.e. mobile, which can complement this treatment. The other way forward is cancer prevention. Prevention organized and directed through screening systems to the population of specified ages allows early detection of the disease and diagnosed cases are in early stages, thus offering more guarantees of cure. Indeed, prevention prevents suffering for hundreds of thousands of people and is far cheaper than advanced treatment of the disease. For this reason, our amendments call for strengthening the network of public primary care centres, covering their places of health personnel, improving their ratios, extending the time of care to each patient in primary care centres and integrating these centres into the networks of care and cancer prevention. Finally, I would like to stress that cancer treatment is another of the many aspects that demonstrate the huge territorial gap we suffer as a country. We cannot allow people who suffer from such a severe disease to travel weekly to receive treatment outside their provinces. Patients with cancer in emptied Spain should be able to receive their treatment within an area defined by a reasonable displacement and, in any case, less than 100 kilometres. We hope that our amendments will be accepted and that the central and autonomous governments will act on this with complete urgency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u106	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mr Díaz, you started or framed the defense of the non-law proposal that brings us to debate today by making statements of the kind: they confused decentralization with dismantling; they forgot the right to health; they forgot the professionals. And this narrative, this framework, this paradigm in which you intend to present the initiative began last week at the control plenary and the question that Mrs Arrimadas asked the President of the Government when she told him: the government has to take letters on the matter and if you are concerned about the health of the Spanish people refocusing the competences. For us, the Basque Group, as you will understand, this is a clash of models; you defend a model in which you want a single health policy, such as the army, which depends on a single command and that no one has anything else to say, with which, according to you, it will work better because everything will be simplified. And that is radically clashing with the model of competition distribution and health policies that we defend. Therefore, we cannot under any circumstances share this proposal. We, the Basque Group, have tabled an amendment amending the total of the proposal that you are proposing, because what we have intended is to make a paradigm shift. That is to say, we are not going to find ourselves there; we cannot accept a proposal which says: in our country, the decentralization of health competences has raised unbreakable barriers. That's not true. What it says: As a result of the decentralization of competencies, obstacles have been created that lead cancer patients to unacceptable situations. That's not true at all. What you have to do here, what we have to do, is to move forward with proposals for improvement - of course, yes - because we must continue to fight cancer, but within the competence of the State: in research, in innovation, in those competences that fall within the competence of the Agency for Medicines and Health Products, in shortening the times so that drugs can be homologated that would really be interesting to improve the quality of life of those people who are suffering from this terrible disease. You said that those people who live in Euskadi, in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, have more chances of living if they have colon cancer than elsewhere and have better palliative care. Do you know why that is? On two fundamental issues. One, for the firm and determined commitment of its rulers that their health policies give priority to a public, universal and quality health system. And, two, because they have a well-structured and well-guided road map. This is the oncology plan, for example, in the case we are dealing with today. [[Show a document]] And other autonomous communities will also have it. Who are we to go and say that this is wet paper and that we are going to tell you what initiatives you have to do? These are roadmaps that should be presented. In fact, I will give you an example of proposals which you make on your initiative and which are already being collected. Look, you guys are talking about multidisciplinary teams. Euskadi's Oncology Plan says: 'Introduce improvements in the organization and management of the oncology process to ensure a multidisciplinary approach to patient care'. That is to say, the proposal has already been made. You were also talking about liaison nursing, which is a very important figure. For the Euskadi Oncological Plan already says: 'DoSIs with Oncology Service will have a network of liaison nurses integrated into the respective tumor committees responsible for the patient's navigation during the process'. You were talking about primary care. Euskadi's Oncology Plan says: 'Review and adapt rapid diagnosis channels between primary care and hospital specialists for early diagnosis and treatment'. You kept talking about specialized approach. It says the Oncological Plan of Euskadi: 'Concentrate oncological processes of high complexity and low prevalence... that require procedures and treatments of high specialization in which the concertation of knowledge, means and a minimum volume...' is very important. And I can keep telling him. You were talking about psychosocial needs. This plan also says: Comprehensive care and shared follow-up between primary care and specialists to provide responses to psychosocial needs. Mr. Díaz, fight for the state to do in its area of competence what it has to do and fight where they are so that the rulers who have competences will bet on a public health, universal, quality and well-defined roadmaps, and you will see how the results are better. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, Mr Bueno Pinto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to everyone and everyone. The Citizens Parliamentary Group brings us a proposal that we believe is well-intentioned and that seeks a good end, such as improving the care, diagnosis and access to treatments for people with cancer, something that we all certainly share. However, in our group we do not agree with some of the approaches that have been taken in this intervention, which also includes GNP, because we believe that they focus too much on some aspects and obviate some very important ones. Also because we believe that many of the things proposed by this GNP are already reflected in the Spanish strategy against cancer of the Ministry of Health, which aims to develop actions in the fields of prevention, screening, diagnosis or treatment. And, as I said, because there are elements in the GNP that I believe are obvious, such as the promotion of health and the prevention of cancer, which does reflect this strategy with a series of measures that go from choosing a healthy diet to improving physical activity, avoiding tobacco and alcohol consumption, or reducing meat consumption, something that in this House always generates a lot of surprise - I think the documents of the Ministry of Health are not read -. In short, it also addresses issues related to early detection and cancer prevention, which are aspects of primary care. In that sense, we wanted to focus - because we believe in public services - on the need to strengthen primary care, which is the gateway to the health system. And we also believe in the territorial model and its development, and we do not believe that this is the one that generates only the inequalities that Citizens mention in their GNP. Do you know what it is shown that generates inequalities in attention, not the autonomic model? Facilitating the governments of the People's Party in self-governments; that is what creates inequality in access to the public health system and in access to primary care. [[Applauds]] And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, it is enough to see what the People's Party does or has done with the public health system. But I am not going to talk to you about Madrid, I am going to talk to you about my land, Andalusia, where the People's Party has launched a whole legislative battery aimed only at degrading public health in order to favor its friends of private health. And it is that the cuts - it is evident - are seen throughout our territory. But the People's Party does not have enough with that, but it has also beaten the record of referral of patients to private health, 111 million euros more than planned and budgeted by the Andalusian Council itself. In addition, one day we rose seeing the intention of Mr Juan Manuel Moreno Bonilla, aka the Moderado, to privatize primary care and give it to private companies. This is what creates inequality in early detection and access to treatments, not the development of the competitive model, nor the statutory model, nor the Statute of Andalusian Autonomy. That's what creates inequality, ladies and gentlemen, putting people who don't see something there that we're proud of, a pillar of the welfare state that we feel proud and proud of as a country, but who see a market niche with which to do business for their friends and friends of private health concerted. That is what generates inequality and not, as I say, the development of the Statute of Andalusian Autonomy, for example. Fortunately, these attacks on public health are trying to stop every day with the mobilization of many people and with the exemplary attitude of health personnel; with the mobilization of many people in Madrid, yes, but also in the province of Cadiz, in Alcalá del Valle, in Olvera, in Villamartín, in Bornos, in Algeciras, in Sanlúcar, in Cadiz, in Algeciras; people who are aware of what it means not to fight for a public health system and to let it be done with it; people to whom we must continue to defend here today, in this forum, a public health system, despite the attacks of some to turn it into a business in the hands of their friends. But, as I said at the outset, ladies and gentlemen, and I am addressing the Citizens' Group, I believe that the proposal, the GNP, is well-intentioned and seeks an end to which we can all agree, and in that regard we have put forward a proposal which seeks to improve the initial text that your group has put forward and which we hope will be taken into account when it is put to the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Well. Mrs Jara Moreno has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u110	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the day any of us hear the word cancer in the mouth of our doctors addressed to ourselves or to any of our relatives or children, life has changed us. That day has entered a hurricane of sensations and fears in our daily life. Fear for what will happen to us?, where do I have cancer?, is it advanced?, will it hurt me?, what will happen to me?, what treatments exist?, when and what will they do to me? Here are other concerns in our minds: how am I going to meet the economic needs of my home? With what they're going to pay me off work, do I have enough to be able to continue with my lifestyle and that of my family? How is my treatment going to be organized? Are there better options elsewhere in the country? Are you offering me the best treatment that exists or just the treatment available in my community? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not difficult for us to live this reality, for one in two men and one in three women will develop cancer throughout their lives. These reflections should make us think that this is not about generic cancer, but about the person with cancer and, within that, about the specific cancer that a particular patient has. Scientific evidence at the moment tells us that every cancer in each person is unique, with specific ontogenic characteristics and that you can benefit from personalized treatment. A separate chapter is that of pediatric oncology, since childhood cancer affects 138 children each year for every million children under the age of 15. As a result of the development of pediatric oncology, 75% of these children will be cured, but more resources must be provided for the treatment of cancer for research, personalized treatments and the creation of the specialty of pediatric oncology and clinical genetics. Therefore, policies must be designed to address the care of patients with cancer and the circumstances of each particular case. The cancer patient will need the best treatment that science can offer him, in the shortest possible time, with the same living opportunities where he lives and without limits derived from the Administration that influence his chances of survival. Every patient, after studying his case by a tumor commission and determined what is the best option he has and where he is located, must have the right to decide where he wants to be treated, without delay or hindrance, and be able to move to the center where best results are being obtained for his type of cancer. In VOX we offer our support to any initiative that contributes to the well-being and better treatment for the cancer patient. We wanted to contribute with amendments to promote the creation of cancer centres of excellence, to promote the inclusion of screening tests in all service portfolios equally and, finally, to carry out information campaigns to encourage the testing of the population. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the extreme left, ladies and gentlemen of the left, ladies and gentlemen of the make-up left, other parliamentary groups, Spaniards who listen to us, we must not forget that another disease that causes all Spaniards to suffer right now is this social communist government, which is destroying health, increasing inequalities and neglecting its professionals, and that the only hope of healing that remains is VOX. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 5 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u111	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jara. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Velasco Morillo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u112	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. This initiative allows us to talk about cancer in Spain, the first cause of death in children under 65 and the second in total after cardiovascular diseases. Undoubtedly, cancer is the disease that most causes society to suffer and is a scourge for all. In Spain, cancer is one of the main causes of morbidity and mortality. More than 300 people die from cancer in our country every day and about 750 diagnoses are produced on average per day. In recent years, the number of cancer diagnoses has increased due to population ageing and, in addition, one in three cancer deaths is due to five preventable factors: tobacco, alcohol, infections, sedentary lifestyle and inadequate diets. Ladies and gentlemen, working on these factors is working from primary cancer prevention. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u113	Excuse me, Mrs. Velasco. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u114	But secondary prevention is also important, expanding the age groups of breast, colon or cervical cancer screenings, or expanding to others such as lung, prostate or gastric cancer. This is one of the objectives of the European Union and must also be of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, it is estimated that this year the 279 260 cases of cancer diagnosed according to cancer records will be reached, a very worrying figure that will lead us to work on better coordination at national level, putting cancer on the health policy agenda, as it is at European Union level. The Government of Spain, in cancer, has to align with the European Plan to fight cancer, as all clinicians and experts ask, and the cancer strategy of the National Health System has to go in this line. Efforts must be combined, the better, because the complexity inherent in combating cancer and the burden of the disease itself makes cancer one of the most serious threats to governments in Europe and around the world. The keys to the cancer approach go beyond prevention, early detection and treatment. Organizational aspects, mechanisms for incorporating innovations, allocation of resources to improve the comprehensive response to cancer need to be further developed. It is very difficult to understand, ladies and gentlemen, that a country that is in the leadership of the clinical development of oncological innovation, such as Spain, is a country where these innovations do not arrive or take too long to reach patients. The time from its adoption to its availability is 517 days, almost two years, far from the 180 established by the law; while in other countries, such as Germany, it is only three months. These delays are leading to a significant loss of opportunity in cancer patients. Or we might wonder what is being done by the Sánchez government to incorporate biomarkers, the use of liquid biopsy in the most frequent tumors, the sequencing of a new generation, aspects so necessary in the application of precision medicine. We could also talk about both surgical and radio therapeutic treatments and their variability depending on where we are in Spain. [[Rumors]] Or how health professionals are being equipped with the tools and health technologies necessary for a digital interoperable clinical history and creating harmonised access to health data, allowing for the sharing of scientific knowledge and progress in the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of diseases, whether between autonomous communities or at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, health professionals face new challenges every day... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u115	Forgive me, Mrs. Velasco. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to follow Mrs Velasco's speech. I'm asking you to be quiet, please. Any time, Mrs. Velasco.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u116	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, health professionals face new health challenges every day in an increasingly changing environment, which has led to a new way of addressing and understanding cancer, a coordination of all actors involved: primary care, which needs better tools and more professionals, as we have said permanently from my parliamentary group; the importance of nursing and the role it must play; the importance of humanization and communication in the patient; psychosocial support; the existence of tumor committees... In this respect, we have tabled an amendment from the Group of the European People's Party, in the direction of what we are asked by healthcare professionals and patients, to whom we listen on an ongoing basis and which we take into account. I would especially like to thank the scientific committee All.Can Spain, and especially its director, Rafael López, as president, for his work in the study of cancer. [[Applauds]] On the contrary, what we see is a government in Sánchez that does not listen to or attend to anyone, with the results of small laws, such as the trans law or the law of yes is yes. They assume their responsibility by increasing more places of specialist doctors, speeding up therapeutic and diagnostic innovations that can be applied in a true precision medicine in cancer. From the People's Parliamentary Group we ask you to do the real government crisis to summon the Spaniards to the elections. This would be the only way not to have a fifth Minister of Health in the five years of the Sanchist Government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velasco. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Guerra López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u118	Thank you, President. Mr. Díaz, with all the affection, your non-law proposition is a totum revolutum, it seems they are trying to instrumentalize cancer patients to defend the centralization of health. I will give you two data: the first, Spain has one of the lowest cancer mortality rates in Europe; and the second, Spain has one of the best decentralized national public health systems in Europe, all over the world. Unfortunately, not all political forces defend public health, as does this Government, as does this parliamentary group. We could see it a few days ago in Madrid, where citizens and health professionals occupied the streets to defend Madrid's public health. You could ask, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, Mr Feijóo, whether the people who occupied the streets the other day in Madrid in defense of public health are good people or not good people For this Socialist Parliamentary Group the Madridians and the Madridns who occupied the public space to defend public health are good people, no doubt, and it is not random because the Community of Madrid is once again - and now there are four - in line with the per capita health budget. [[Applauds]] And you know what, gentlemen of Citizens? That you are co-responsible because you supported in Madrid, Andalusia and Castile and León the governments of the People's Party, those governments that cut public health. [[Applauds]] Because it was the Rajoy People's Party that cut 3896 million euros in health, just to step on Moncloa. It was the Rajoy People's Party that promoted the pharmaceutical co-op for retirees. It is the People's Party of Ayuso and Feijóo that has fired more than 6000 health workers in Madrid, and it is the People's Party of Feijóo and Moreno Bonilla that has fired 8000 health workers in Andalusia. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, they are like two by one of Columbus Square, they cut public health with the People's Party and then question the competitive framework with VOX. And in the meantime, do you know what the Socialist Party is doing? Increases more than 1 billion euros for primary care... [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u119	Excuse me a moment, Mrs. War. Ladies and gentlemen, please, I ask you to remain silent. Any time, Mrs. War.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u120	Thank you, President. Do you know what the Socialist Party is doing? It leads communities that spend more budget per capita on health, as Adrian Barbón does in Asturias. Do you know what the Socialist Party is doing? Hire more than 400 professionals for primary care and hospitals, as Fernández Vara does in Extremadura. [[A honourable Member: No! No! No!]] Don't worry, lordship of the People's Party. But in this totum revolution that you were talking about at first, indeed, Mr Díaz, you are also talking about cancer treatments, and I have to admit that you know the Spanish strategy against cancer, because many of the points in your non-law proposal are reflected in that strategy. Indeed, this government is committed to excellence and innovation in the fight against cancer, introducing genetic testing and precision medicine to make personalized treatments for each patient. This government is committed by the reference professionals, both in nursing and in medicine, to better prevention, follow-up and comprehensive care - also psychological, as you said - of the patients. And this government works with the Spanish Cancer Association to achieve a 70% survival rate in 2030. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a moment's attention. There is a worldwide disease, acute lymphoblastic leukemia of cortical T cells, affecting children and adolescents aged 11 to 17 years. Thirty cases are diagnosed every year in our country. Between 85 and 95% of these cases respond positively to treatment; only between one and five children do not, they go directly to palliative care. I could stop here. End of news. But we live in a country where we fight for those five children and their families to continue to have hope. We live in a country where two Catalan hospitals, Sant Joan de Déu and Hospital Clínic, are carrying out studies to respond to these five children and their families. They don't know if those kids are from Lleida, Huelva, Cáceres or Teruel. But we live in a country where these two Catalan hospitals are going to respond to these children, no matter where they are. Ladies and gentlemen, I will ask you a clear and direct question. If any of you, if any of us were the father or mother of one of those five children, would we want a specialized center that would respond to our children, regardless of where the center was located or would we settle for the palliatives? [[Applauds]] I'm on my way, President. A great nation is one that cares and cares for the common good of all its members, regardless of where they live, the resources they have, their origin or social class. That is why health for us must be public, dignified, of quality, free and universal, because that is really what defines a homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u121	Thank you very much, Mrs. War. Mrs Cañadell Salvia, first of all, has the floor in the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u122	Thank you, President. Cancer is a disease with a high level of incidence in our society, it is a disease that moves sensitivities and, unfortunately, we all in our families or friends have had to wage a hard battle. In addition, different experts and studies warn that cancer will remain a major public health problem worldwide. It is estimated that up to 2040 there will be an increase of almost 50% in the new diagnoses of this disease, with special impact in patients under 50 years of age. However, Mr Díaz, I do not think it is appropriate to blame the autonomous system for the fragmentation of the health area and for having raised unbreakable barriers when it comes to meeting the medical needs of patients. There are mechanisms for coordination between state and autonomous health authorities, such as the Inter-Territorial Health Council, but perhaps this non-law proposal obvious one of the endemic evils of the system, underfunding. Undoubtedly, an improvement in autonomous financing would help to solve to a large extent the almost chronic deficit in the health system and, therefore, the diagnosis and treatment that in principle this non-law proposal claims to want to improve. Mr Díaz, too, blames the decentralization of competences for all evils, but forgets to name all that the State should improve in this area, such as speeding up the procedures for setting prices for cancer drugs and authorized drugs, devoting more resources to research and expanding places in different specialties, among other measures. We will assess how the final wording remains to fix our position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u123	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, it was Hippocrates who baptized cancer as karkinos, or crab in Greek, surely he did not imagine that so many thousands of people were inspired by his oath not to carry any purpose other than the good and health of the sick or that his karkinos would become the plague of the twenty-first century. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us focus on healing him, but respecting the competences of the autonomous communities and not re-centralizing them using cancer as an excuse. The sick want to be cured, not that their disease is used electorally. What does the European Union say? With complementary or health support skills, it seeks complicity and cross-border collaboration across regions in its Health Union. Thanks to the work of Junts Toni Comín's Euro MP, former Health Advisor, and his team, regional authorities with health skills may be in the preparation of plans to prevent cross-border health threats. This is called applying the principle of subsidiarity in favour of people's health. That's how inequality works. In health it is especially important to value proximity, experience and knowledge. His re-centralizing bureaucracy, on the other hand, would put that capital at risk. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, please be clear, because you, instead of liberals, on this occasion act as Marxists of Groucho Marx, have some principles in Europe and others in the Spanish State. Because today's legislative initiative questions the principle of subsidiarity within the European Union, a principle they defend when it comes to voting in the European Parliament. Review the plenary session of 11 November 2021. The European Union is working on the law to create a harmonised health data area managed by the European Commission so that regions with the best know-how in data collection, monitoring and database management share this knowledge with others. Catalonia is one of the leading regions, so instead of opting for Catalanophobia and seeking to harmonize at state level care for cancer patients, at the risk of lowering the level of coverage of Catalonia or other communities that have also done very good work, they applaud the leadership and ask the other communities to copy good practice in health policy. When they ask to ensure a simple, accessible, honest and truthful flow of information for patients and their families, we understand that they seek to prevent healthcare professionals from having to learn official languages other than Spanish. The Catalan language is also the language of salvation. The corporal. To say that in the regions best equipped with a health system we do not help non-residents of these regions is perverse and false, and they know it, but we see that in the pre-election campaign we move from the hypocritical to the hypocritical too easily.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u125	Thank you very much, Mrs. Calvo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u126	Thank you very much, President. On the surface, this non-legislative proposal should not pose any problems. In fact, we can even share some of the proposals that arise, such as point 2, working with primary healthcare professionals in the field of information and training, so that they have more and better tools for identifying possible cancer cases and their immediate referral to cancer specialists. Right. Or point 4, highlight the role of nursing staff in cancer treatment processes and protocols, from suspicion to treatment, as a case management figure and point of reference for patients, family and optional. All right. Or, even, point 5, ensure a simple, accessible, honest and truthful flow of information for patients and their families, increasing the availability of psychosocial support throughout the national territory. Or point 6, establish, with the help of the autonomous communities and hospital managers, multidisciplinary teams for the treatment of cases, thus ensuring the best possible hospital care and a more precise treatment to the patient and his type of cancer. I wanted to read it because they really are proposals that have common sense, and in that sense we will take note to implement it in Catalonia, as long as it is not already implemented, I inform you. But where we do disagree, and you know it, it is in the model of provision of health services. When they talk about ending the existing territorial inequalities in the diagnosis or treatment of cancer. You know that autonomous communities have full competence in the implementation and management of health benefits, whether you like it or not, and any approach to how they should do so involves clear competition interference. That's very clear. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u128	It is not about coordinating or imposing anything, in any case collaborating. And when you ask for greater territorial equity in the provision of services - curiously rarely refer to social equity, which is another kind of equity - you are always asking for it to be lowered, depreciating in many cases the effort of some communities that do bet on quality health. In the case, for example, of transferring patients from one community to another, how do you propose the level of compensation for the costs of the benefit? Because the provision of health services entails costs for the autonomous communities. In any case, I am always repeating to you the same thing, that the differences in the provision of services from one community to another often responds - I repeat, responds many times - to whether or not the autonomous government in turn considers it a priority to finance public health properly, and we all know what we are talking about. I propose another way: you present this initiative in the corresponding parliaments of the autonomous governments, which is really where it touches, with homogeneous criteria, processes and protocols, although, yes, as long as you have sufficient parliamentary representation to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. Mr Díaz, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u130	Although it does not seem like it in some speeches, we are working on a magnificent transactional, which we will bring to the Bureau. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u131	All right. We'll be looking forward to it. Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. We shall begin the voting. We began with the consideration of proposals for legislation. Proposal for a law of the Republican Parliamentary Group on comprehensive regulation of cannabis. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 78 against, 261 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u133	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - OF THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, ORGANISATION FOR THE DEROGATION OF ARTICLE 384 BIS OF THE CRIMINAL INJURY LAW. [[File number 122/00250]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u134	Proposed law of the Plural Parliamentary Group, organic for the repeal of article 384 bis of the Criminal Prosecution Act. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 341 votes in favour, 35 against, 273 abstentions, 33.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u135	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u136	Agreement for the direct and single reading of the Draft Law amending Law 28/1990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 272 against, 61 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u137	As a result, the bill is dealt with directly and in one reading. - DIRECT TREATMENT AGREEMENT AND IN SINGLE READING OF THE DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 12/2002 OF 23 MAY, APPROVING THE ECONOMIC CONCERT WITH THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITY OF THE VASCO COUNTRY. [[File number 121/000143]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u138	Agreement for the direct and single reading of the Draft Law amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 272 against, 61 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u139	Accordingly, it was agreed that the bill should be dealt with directly and in one reading only. - DIRECT AND ONLY READING TREATMENT AGREEMENT ON THE DRAFT LAW APPROVING THE METHODOLOGY FOR THE REPORTING OF THE COUNTRY'S COUNTRY FOR THE YEAR 2022-2026. (File number 121/0001449.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u140	Agreement for the direct and single reading of the draft law approving the methodology for the marking of the Basque Country quota for the five-year period 2022-2026. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 272 against, 61 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-21-CD230221.u141	Accordingly, it was agreed that the bill should be dealt with directly and in one reading only. Thank you very much. Good night. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and five minutes of the night.
