ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. [[Rumors]] Take your seats, please. We continue with the questions addressed to the Government in accordance with the order sent by the Government. Questions to the President of the Government. Question by Mrs Concepción Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u2	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, why are there resignations on trains and women victims of sexual assaults? The ridiculous and electoral panic have defeated the minister, who does not know about infrastructure, but who has ended up ceasing the Secretary of State and the friend they placed at Renfe's head. What are you waiting for to stop Minister Irene Montero? Trains do, but sex offenders don't? Do you really think your government is, at this point, adding something? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u3	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, there are people who unfairly tell you that you change your jacket. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] I don't think so. I believe that what changes is the leader of the People's Party, but you continue to do the same, which is to worship the leader of the People's Party. Look, I'm going to answer you just as you did to Mr. Married before your fall: clearly, with certainty and truth. This government adds up. With whom we will never add, it is with those who put women's rights in check. [[Applauds]] In any case, Your Honor, I will tell you that in this difficult context that we are going through during this legislature, with a pandemic, with a war and, in the meantime, with a volcano, this Government has added, for example, to the workers, raising the minimum interprofessional wage, approving a labour reform that generates and recovers rights for the workers. We have added, for example, with healthcare professionals: EUR 1 billion to primary care; EUR 800 million for investment in high-tech equipment. We are joining with women, with feminist laws, Your Honor, as well as with the LGTB collective, with a LGTBI law, or we are joining with pensioners, revaluing pensions according to the IPC, and you voted against. We would like to join you, Your Honor, too, but for that, you need to return to the fold of the Constitution... Yes, of course, to the fold of the Constitution. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u5	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u6	You will have to comply with the Constitution, you who say you are a constitutionalist party. And you, Mrs. Gamarra, stop considering the judiciary as a private stand. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u7	Mrs. Gamarra.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u8	Look, Mr. Sánchez, the biggest change in jacket that took place at the last stage was yours, because you promised your voters that you would not rule with Podemos or compromise with Bildu. [[Applauds]] Those millions of voters are the ones you have betrayed during this legislature. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] Mr. Sánchez, you have 544 sex offenders who benefit from your law, more than 50 convicted prisoners who are on the street, with the consequent risk of recidivism. He's incapable of rectifying. If your Government does not add up, get off the proud train and accept the popular party's extended hand, even if only for women. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] His attitude is so inexplicable that he even seems to have a personal interest in delaying the solution. Let's see if it's you and we can't who wants to get an 8-M headline. Look, Mr Sánchez, Spain is the OECD country where the most disposable income has fallen. You are adding poverty and inequality. I invite you to visit a supermarket, but I'm not going to fill it with socialist extras, which I'm watching you come, and listen to what people are going to say to you. [[laughs]] He is going to tell you that the shopping basket has risen by 21% since December 2020. And what solutions do you give to this? If you ask a part of your Government, you will tell it to pick up prices or intervene the market and, if you ask another part of the Government, you will tell it to cross the supermarket across the street, and this is what he says it was the moderate. What do you think? Now, if you have to be in your government it is much better to be as a communist than as a socialist, because of the forty ministers you carry you have not dared to touch any of Podemos, and look at them curing it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u9	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, in this very difficult context, Spain is the main economy in Europe that grew the most over the past year and this year. We are a country that right now has an employment rate that I did not have fifteen years ago. We have the lowest inflation in the European Union. Does this mean we're not facing any difficulties? We are facing them, ladies and gentlemen, but you are not helping anything, absolutely nothing. Yesterday, his president said so. He said the 'good people' thing. [[Rumors]] Of course, I understand that when you vote that not, for example, the interprofessional minimum wage is because you interpret that your beneficiaries are not good people. [[Several Members: Hala! Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come]] When you vote against the revaluation of pensions under the CPI, you will consider that pensioners are not good people in our country. [[Rumors]] When you vote against, for example, the tax on large energy entities or large financial entities it will be because you consider these people to be good, huh? Those people are good. [[Applauds]] Your Honor, what a few good people there are in your country and how powerful it is. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DONATOR ESTEBAN BRAVO, OF THE VASCO PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: DOES HE CONSIDE THAT THE FRENCH GOVERNMENT THOUGHT TO PUT A VEICE MORE THE RAILWARE CONNECTION OF THE ATLANTIC EYE? [[EAJ-PNV]] [[File number 180/001178]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u11	Question by Mr Aitor Esteban Bravo, from the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u12	Good morning, Mr. President. A report published a few days ago by the French Government delays, as early as 2042, the connection on the border of the high-speed Atlantic axis, the Madrid-Vitoria-Dax-Paris line. It is a priority axis for the EU and a key axis for the Atlantic Autonomous Communities. The Minister of Transport, Raquel Sánchez, in the agreement of Barcelona, has assured to bombo and dish - in a role of Moncloa - that it has met with its French counterpart, that it has classified as priority the great project southwest, of the Atlantic corridor, with the preview to complete the infrastructures in 2030. He also said that he had welcomed France's commitment and pointed out that the French minister had undertaken to finish both European, Mediterranean and Atlantic rail corridors in 2030, starting the latter's works in 2024. I ask you whether you confirm that the French Government will once again postpone the railway connection of the Atlantic axis.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u13	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. I would like to confirm not only that this was the result of the conversation that the Minister of Transport had, but also of my conversation with the President of the French Republic at the summit in Barcelona. That is to say, this is the commitment made by the French Government. Of course, we too were surprised by that publication of the French body, and what I can tell you is that we are going to try to ensure that the deadlines set at that summit and, of course, also the deadlines set and committed to the European Commission, which certainly supports what the Spanish Government is doing. We certainly consider this to be one of the priority areas for our country's competitiveness. We have the support of the European Commission and we hope that the French Government will meet the deadlines it assumed at that summit in Barcelona and that it has also assumed with the Community institutions. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u15	Mr. Esteban.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u16	My doubt is what they really assumed at that summit, because it is nothing less than a treaty of friendship and cooperation for the effectiveness and agility of joint projects, for bilateral meetings... That report had already been drafted by the French in December and has just been published. With this, it seems that they contradict the treatise in Barcelona. But I also say this because of the issue of border crossings, which are still closed and which was another of Barcelona's major issues. It reiterates - this is the Barcelona agreement - its commitment to the proper functioning of the area without controls at internal borders, to preserve the Schengen acquis and freedom of movement; we must go to the specific challenges of the Pyrenean border area of the areas of common life in order to facilitate the daily lives of its inhabitants. Both Governments, and the steps remain closed. In the Basque and Navarra Autonomous Community, five closed and four with comprehensive controls. The electric connection of the Gulf of Biscay is also in question by the French, who do not want to take their share. The H 2 Med is also in question. So, what did the summit do, Mr. President? The truth is, I'm worried. There is one thing they have closed: they are going to participate, I think every three months, in the Council of Ministers of the other government. When you go there, I hope that you do not get caught up in it and that you really say that you have to comply with what was agreed in Barcelona, because if you do not have what is the point of having a treaty of that level, a treaty of friendship and cooperation, what is the point of saying that things have been agreed when then one of the parties to them constantly contradicts them? I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, with a neighbour like France I think we have extraordinary synergies, potentialities and good neighbourliness, but we do have some points of discord. I, of course, have spoken to President Macron about the issue of secondary movements. You know that this is a debate that goes beyond the bilateral relationship between Spain and France. He talks about the proper functioning of Schengen or not and talks about the Migration and Asylum Pact, and that is what we are discussing in the European Council and also in the European Parliament. When we talk about energy interconnections, we are not talking about a bilateral relationship between Spain and France, we are also talking about how we can guarantee an energy supply to Europe as a whole, and that is not just an issue that affects our bilateral relationship. Even when we talk about the treaty of friendship between France and Spain, you will understand that if France has few treaties of friendship - two or three I think I remember, with Germany and in Italy - the fact that it also places Spain at that level of cooperation means a recognition of the strengths and the importance that is given to Spain in the European context. In any case, you were asking me about this important investment in infrastructure. The Government of Spain, of course, will defend the interests of each and every one of the territories of our country and the competitiveness of the Spanish economy. We are going to meet our deadline, of course, as far as we are concerned, and we are going to demand that the French Government comply with what it told us at that Barcelona summit and that it is also asking the European Commission, which is speeding up these investment deadlines. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED Mrs Mertxe AIZPURUA ARZALLUS, OF THE PARLIAMENTARY GROUP EUSKAL HERRIA BILDU, WHO FORMULATES THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT: WILL YOU TERMINATE WITH THE SOCIAL, WORK AND POLITICAL AbandONMENT LIVING YOUTH? [[File number 180/001171]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u19	Question by Mrs Mertxe Aizpurua Arzallus of the Parliamentary Group Euskal Herria Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u20	Thank you. Mr Sánchez, crisis, that is the only way of life that today's youth has known, a constant crisis since 2008 that has condemned them to a precarious present and a future without expectations. According to the latest data, the Spanish State is at the forefront of European youth unemployment, with 29.3% of young people unemployed. Bilbao, in the so-called Basque oasis, is the 16th European city with the most youth unemployment, 38,5%. These are terrible facts that demonstrate the lack of public policies that guarantee decent lives for young people. You will say that they are improving the quality and durability of youth employment, that scholarships have increased and also the SMI, and that is fine, but you also know that the situation remains unsustainable and that these policies are therefore insufficient. It's time to make decisions with public policies that put youth in the center. That is why I ask you how it will end with the abandonment of youth.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u21	Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you for your question, Your Honor. In a much more general context, during the last 20 years and, above all, after the failed neoliberal response to the financial crisis, the middle class and the workers of this country have suffered the erosion of their quality of life in two fundamental aspects: one, wages, and two, in social protection, that is, in strengthening or not the welfare state. What this Government is doing, Your Honor, is, one, recovering wage levels for workers where we have room for action, an interprofessional minimum wage, and, two, enhancing and strengthening collective bargaining to balance bargaining forces between employers and workers' representatives and, secondly, strengthening the welfare state. Your Honor, we have created a vital minimum income that, above all, fights child poverty, which affects two million children in our country. We have raised the interprofessional minimum wage which, in addition to young people, benefits women in particular. We have adopted an employment reform that, I insist, you yourself acknowledge, has reduced the timescale of young people in our country, has promoted stability and has also reduced youth unemployment. And, no doubt, we are strengthening all those public policies that guarantee equal opportunities, such as scholarships: yesterday, as you acknowledged, in the Council of Ministers we approved the largest share of scholarships in the history of our democracy, with 2520 million euros, which will benefit more than a million students in our country. Finally, we have a pending subject in Spanish democracy, and it is our young people's access to housing. There is the state housing plan, the housing law, which I hope we can conclude throughout this legislature, and all the policies we are putting in place to strengthen the social housing stock in our country. Much remains to be done, Your Honor. If there is inequality in our country, it is intergenerational inequality along with gender inequality, and that is where the progressive coalition government is, defending women's rights and freedoms and also guaranteeing opportunities for young people, who need and deserve it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u23	Mrs. Aizpurua.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u24	Mr Sánchez, comprehensive and structural policies will be necessary in order to transform the situation of young people, but there are also measures that can be taken from now on: to increase the SMI up to 60% of the average salary of each territory, from the soil marked at state level, establishing, for example, in Euskal Herria, an SMI of 1400 euros; to undertake the necessary changes in the labour laws specifically aimed at boosting youth employment and recovering the working conditions prior to the Rajoy labour reform; to adopt a housing-youth law which has mentioned it - effective, which regulates rents and prevents young people from allocating more than 60% of their wages to rent in order to be able to emancipate themselves, and to modify the LOREG so that young people between 16 and 18 years can also have the right to vote and choose who and who should not make the decisions that will directly affect their lives and well-being. All these policies are in your hands, Mr. Sanchez. Youth is the vanguard of the most important social changes that are taking place, from the feminist struggle to the defense of the planet or the movement for decent housing. They are a driving force for change in the present and future of a society that must adapt to the new challenges. As they do their best, they are abandoned by politics and institutions. That's why we have to make the effort he makes...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, that and much more. I think we have to do a lot more for young people in our country. This Government is innovating in youth-related public policies. We are empowering young people; the cultural bonus is, the bonus for helping young people to rent and to make housing accessible is. We need to commit much more to public administrations in defence and the fight for intergenerational equality, and the Government of Spain is in that, Your Honor. I hope that we can make much more progress in favour of young people with their support and with the rest of the parliamentary groups. Thank you. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEVELOPED INES MARIA CAÑIZARES PACHECO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE SECOND AND MINISTER OF WORK AND SOCIAL ECONOMY TO THE SECOND SECOND PRESIDENT SECOND PRESIDANT: CAN THE SPAIN BE PERMITTED TO HAVE THE HIGHEST LEVEL OF EUROPE? [[File number 180/001168]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u27	Question to the second Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Question by Mrs Inés María Cañizares Pacheco, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u28	Thank you, President. Listen, Madam Vice President. Work in practice at 300 euros for eight hours. I'm not going to have a retirement, nor do I have a choice to save. We're ruled by pusilanimous. I feel enormous frustration, as I do not even think of a vital project that includes housing, family and stable work. Few of the things that my parents could offer me will I be able to offer to my children. Suddenly we have to start running if we want to be mothers. The maternity leave for self-employed women is virtually non-existent. I've preferred to develop my professional career first, but it shouldn't be incompatible things. When you leave Spain you see that your job is valued and that there are more opportunities, not the working hell of Spain; the fault is the policies that are carried out. These are not data, Minister, they are people, they are young Spaniards whose feelings are despair, boredom and frustration. More than half of Spanish youth between the ages of 25 and 29 still live with their parents. No work, no home, no family. They are losing in relation to their parents and have grown up with unfulfilled expectations. In the face of these sad testimonies, can Spain be allowed to have the highest youth unemployment rate in Europe? And now don't make excuses for what was found when we arrived at the government - we already know each other - because political inheritances are not accepted for inventory benefit; the good and the least good are accepted, so you work to improve the inherited. Look, I'm going to anticipate, unless you manipulate my data. When you came to the government, youth unemployment stood at 30.51% and today it is 29.26%. It's narrowly reduced by 1.25 and not 11 points, as you're preaching. The reality is that Spain's youth unemployment almost doubles that of the European Union, by 14.6 points. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u29	I remind people in the rostrum that they cannot make any demonstrations either for or against any of the interventions. [[One Member: That's for everyone.-Rumors]] Madam Second Vice-President of the Government. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u30	Your Honor, the answer is no, and I'm going to tell you that lying is a sin. [[Laughter]] Review the unemployment rate when we reach the Government of Spain and see how you're lying. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u31	Mrs. Cañizares. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u32	Stop worrying about what I say. What you have to do is worry, precisely, about implementing policies that allow the creation of stable and quality jobs for our young people. Look, attacking the opposition is not a job, although it's all you do, apart from seeing Barrio Sesamo, so answer the question seriously and, even if you don't respect VOX, respect our youth and work for your future - in the discount time you have left, of course - because that's what the Spaniards pay you for, not to insult and lie in every control session. [[laughs]] [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: All right!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u33	Madam Second Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u34	Your Honor, since you're serious, I'm going to try to give you data. The youth unemployment rate in Spain is unacceptable, it is 29.3%, but for you to have an overview, in a country like Sweden the youth unemployment rate is 22%. Believe me, there is enormous concern in the European Union about the problem of youth unemployment throughout Europe. But, Your Honor, when we arrived at the Government of Spain, the youth unemployment rate was 41% and we reduced it by 11 points. [[Mrs. Cañizares Pacheco: That's a lie!]] I give you data: we have reduced the rate of temporaryity, thanks to that labor reform that you have fought, by 17 points, Your Honor. But I will give you more data: we have generated 235,000 jobs for young people; by the way, in high-level qualities and added value. And not only this, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have more than three million occupied young people in Spain, as we have for a long time not had, and what is better, Your Honor - listen, I'm sure you're interested and happy - we have had the lowest youth unemployment rate for fourteen years. I understand you don't like this data, sir, especially because it's not up to your country. This has been achieved thanks to the joint work of the political forces in this House who have supported the Government of Spain and, yes, the social partners. But, Your Honor, I will tell the House what you would do if you ruled, what you carry on your election program. Do you know what you want for the young people of Spain? Work without paying a cent of euro and without social contributions. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: Yes, of course!]] Yes, on his government program. You are talking about an insertion contract, Your Honor, and this is exactly where young people work without pay, without contributions, without unemployment and without social protection. [[rumors]] [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon and Mrs Cañizares Pacheco: Yes! Yes!-Applause.]] Look, Your Honor, what's wrong with you is that the people on the bench over there gave bags to the young people and you don't want bags, what you want is to put shackles on the young people to stay in your country, because working like this is slavery. [[pointing to the seats of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[Applauds]] - OF MR GUILLERMO MARISCAL ANAYA, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHO FORMULATES THE THIRD AND MINISTER FOR THE ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: WHAT FACTORS DO YOU FIND THE FACE OF YOUR POLICIES? [[File number 180/001173]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u35	Questions to the third Vice-President of the Government and Minister for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. Question by Mr Guillermo Mariscal Anaya, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u36	Thank you, President. Mr President, good people in no case are, for example, the Tito Berni, who used the Congress of Deputies to carry out allegedly illegal activities. [[One Member: Very well!-Applause]] That's not good people. Madam Vice-President, since you are responsible for our country's energy policy, the Spanish have paid the highest electricity and gas bills in history, and their solutions have not achieved much, and as an example, the Iberian exception, which began in June. First, 30% have actually reduced the price of electricity by 13%, but the remaining 70% have either not reduced the price or have suffered an unorthodox increase, because in the end the gas cap will be paid among all, 6 billion between June and December last year. The Spanish with this measure we subsidize the electric energy to the French, Portuguese and Moroccans, and you know it. We use more gas than ever, 25% more than last year, and when we need more gas, Mr Sánchez's economic diplomacy, always brilliant, breaks relations with Algeria because of the change in the Sahara and we are left without one of the two pipelines that united us with our main supplier. Brilliant. To close this virtuous circle, because of the need to keep the gas burning to generate electricity motivated by its Iberian exception and the export of electricity necessary to our neighbours, from Russia, from whom we did not receive a single gas molecule when you arrived in the government, as last January came a fifth of the gas we consumed; a fifth of the gas we consumed last January came from Russia. Is this, Mrs Ribera, your strategy to reduce Russia's energy dependence? Was it this one? Is this the sustainable and future European energy policy that you are defending? Forty-eight hours after the anniversary of the beginning of the war, do you know how Putin finances the invasion of Ukraine, with what funds does the purchase of arms pay? I'll tell you, with the sale of gas, and you've got Spain to increase it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u37	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u38	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thank you very much, Mr Mariscal, for your question. The truth is that it is always very difficult to find someone in your parliamentary group with whom to talk about energy policy and to follow it closely. You can see that you are very focused on defending the interests of people of good rather than on defending the interests of industrial and domestic energy consumers. [[Let's give it up.-Laughter.]] Do you know how much the price of natural gas has risen? Well, up to 160 euros the megawatt hour this summer. After the gas cap agreed in December, it collapsed and we have managed to stabilize in the environment of 60 euros. Do you know what would have happened to Spanish consumers in the absence of the Iberian mechanism? That they would have had to pay 30% more and we would have had to pay around EUR 5 billion throughout the system. Do you know what would have happened if we hadn't agreed to extend the social coverage of the electric social bond, the thermal social bond, which we had to build? That the people at home would have been unable to consume energy for heating, without thermal comfort, or for electricity. Fortunately, as a result of this enlargement, vulnerable and severely vulnerable consumers have been paying less than they were paying in 2020. [[Applauds]] But you know what happens too? That in the absence of measures to promote the energy transition, as was his case, because we were stinking in the international world of investment in renewable energy and we were in the top three of the countries with the most demands before ICSID - more than fifty-two arbitration claims worth 10 billion euros - this country would have been fatal. [[Mariscal Anaya: That's not true.-Rumors]] Fatal! [[Applauds]] We will, however, have to see how the energy transition accelerates, despite the interests of those who want the energy transition to be paid at the cost of gas and not at the much cheaper cost of renewable energy. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u39	Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u40	You're nervous, Madam Vice President. [[Protests]] Look, they offer military aid to Ukrainians - without Podemos, of course - but they push policies that strengthen the Russian economy. What a pitiful contradiction, Miss Ribera! How pitiful! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u41	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u42	That is what it is about, to absorb the zero reduction in imports of energy raw materials from Russia. And you are confused with your figures, we will review them immediately afterwards. [[rumors]] [[Laughter and applause]] - THE DEVELOPED NECESSARY CANDAMIL RULE, THE PLURAL PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHICH FORMS THE Honourable Vice-President THIRD AND MINISTER FOR ECOLOGICAL TRANSITION AND THE DEMOGRAPHICAL CHALLENGE: DOES IT SEEM COMPATIBLE WITH THE OBJECTIVE OF ENVIRONMENTAL PRESERVATION AND SUPPORT TO THE PRIMARY SECTOR WHICH COMPANIES MAY DECIDE WHERE TO ESTABLISH WATER PARKS OR MACRO WATER PARKS WITHOUT CONTROL, WITHOUT DECLARATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND WITHOUT CITIZEN PARTICIPATION, AS ESTABLISHES THE REAL DECRETO-LEY 20/2022 THAT YOUR MINISTRY IMPULSED? [[File number 180/001163]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u43	Question by Mr Néstor Rego Candamil, Member of the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, do you consider environmental preservation and support for the primary sector compatible with eliminating the environmental impact statement and citizen participation in wind projects?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u45	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u46	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Your Honor. No, that is why we have not eliminated it, but environmental rigour is maintained in the deployment of renewable energies. And that is why, thanks to renewable energy and agro-voltaics and so many solutions that allow the two options to be integrated, we will reduce the major problems of air pollution, soil pollution and the industrial future of Galicia. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u47	Mr. Rego.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u48	They did, Decree 20/2022. You also know, Madam Vice-President, that it is not true that the more wind farms there are and the faster, the lower the price of electricity, because that depends on very different factors: from the regulation of the electricity sector, whether or not the marginalist system is maintained or, even, whether production is in the hands of large private companies or is placed - as the BNG defends - under public control, as an essential and strategic good that it is, to put it at the service of social and economic development and not only for the greater profit of oligopoly; just what you do not want to do. In any case, the issue is that this Government's plan to promote renewables is not a plan, it is pure and hard neoliberalism. Instead of a programmed model with a prior definition of suitable spaces and conditions, minimizing negative impacts and by competition, you opt for authorisation, leaving companies to choose where to install. Now, moreover, the need for the environmental impact statement and the possibility of allegations are eliminated. The consequences are more impact, more impact on historical heritage, occupation of agricultural and livestock land, destruction of the livelihood of millions of people, devaluation of property, etc. All this in exchange for nothing in reversal for the affected territories. With this legislation it turns out that it is the most progressive self-named Government that most blatantly favors the interests of oligopoly. In Galicia, which suffers from a real predatory wind boom, there are already cases of projects not authorized by the Xunta that were modified to increase the power, as in the case of the Carballoso park, which goes from 49 to 51 megawatts and thus can benefit from the SFCR of the ministry, real free bar for companies. I should embarrass them. The BNG defends another model of electricity generation based on production on a smaller scale and closer to consumer centres, public enterprises and Galician electricity tariffs. But since you are going in another direction, we have already put forward a proposal for a law to recover environmental guarantees and citizen participation in wind projects because it is the least that should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u49	Madam Third Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u50	Thank you, President. Thank you, Your Honor. Indeed, we are living in an extremely complicated situation. We are committed to reducing our gas consumption. Domestic gas has fallen by almost 24% in these eight months and we have maintained our solidarity with our neighbours who, in a drought situation, were in very complicated and difficult circumstances and could not guarantee electricity supply, as was the case in Spain, by the way. The development of renewable energies must be based on small installations and on self-consumption - which has grown more than 2000 % in four years - but also on wind and photovoltaic plants, with all environmental guarantees. That decree law to which you refer introduces several very important things, so I think this is a good opportunity. The first is that no procedure will be processed if there is no guarantee or access permit to evacuate that electricity before, which stops all that avalanche of projects that we have had all this time and have had to reprocess with all the guarantees. Secondly, it will not be possible to develop this accelerated procedure - because it must be fast and agile also for the citizens' guarantee - if it does not have certain fundamental requirements, such as that it does not take place in marine spaces, that it is not lines of more than 15 kilometres or airlines, that it does not affect any surface that has an environmental protection figure and that, of course, they present not only the environmental impact study with all the guarantees, but a summary that makes it perfectly understandable to the whole world what we are talking about. It is the experts in the administration who will have to ensure that this is the case and, in the slightest doubt, return to the ordinary procedure because, as I say, more agility cannot be in conflict with environmental protection. I think Galicia has other very serious environmental problems that I'm sure we're in. It has problems of contamination of surface waters and aquifers with purines, with traces of slate. It has great problems with fires and lack of investment in the protection and prevention of fires. It has problems of contamination of its ria and, in fact, we have been working for the decontamination of the ria of O Burgo. And I think it is important to understand that the development of renewables is what will allow industrial solutions in As Pontes, which will allow the viability of Alcoa and, of course,... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u51	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MACARENA MONTESINOS DE MIGUEL, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, WHICH FORMS TO THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE: SHALL THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE SHALL SHARE THE OPINIONS OF HER COMPANY TO BE THE JUDGES RESPONSIBLE FOR BLOWING THE PENAS? [[File number 180/001174]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u52	Question addressed to the Minister for Justice. Question by Mrs Macarena Montesinos de Miguel, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u53	Thank you, President. While the People's Party, the judiciary and jurists warned them of the dire consequences for victims of sexual assaults of her fateful law, Mrs. Montero accused the judges of sexists and fairy tales; she even said that they prevailed when applying the law in a defective way. Yesterday, before the delegation of MEPs, he insisted that the problem is the judges and not the drafting of the law, and the president of the delegation had to answer that you alone are responsible for drafting this law. Look, react once and for all, support the victims and change the law now. Society is demanding it, but its pride, sectarianism and false feminism prevent it. Do you share the views of Minister Montero? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u54	Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Your Honor, I am surprised by the People's Party's sudden interest in feminism. [[Rumors]] And I am surprised, above all, when they have maintained an appeal against the abortion law for thirteen years; thirteen years in which they have been able to reflect sufficiently to guarantee the reproductive and sexual rights of women. Thirteen years of reflection and you have not withdrawn it, it will be because the women who have to make this hard decision in their life are not good people. But what surprises me most about your question is your defense of the Spanish judges and magistrates. [[The Rumors Continue]] Because, do you know what the best defense the People's Party can do, what you can do, what Mr. Feijoo can do? Well, look: renew the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]] 1539 days, one after another, failing to comply with the Constitution. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u56	Mrs. Montesinos.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u57	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, the one thing you and your entire government would have to think about right now is you and a Tito Berni, who was benefiting from the services of exploited women, while you are taking on the lack of false feminists, which is what you are. [[Applauds]] And to us the lessons of feminism, the just! Because, look, on your conscience and that of all the groups that supported the law of yes, it will fall on those more than five hundred... Yes, minister, don't put on that gesture that characterizes you so much because it's very serious. There are already more than five hundred sexual aggressors who have benefited from the disaster of your law and you, impassive, absolutely impassive. He began by stating that the law was perfect for, in a row, in the last plenary to say that he assumes all responsibility and thus serves as a parapet to Mr Sánchez. They have deployed the entire catalogue of sanchist manipulation; that is, they are able to defend one thing and the opposite in the same period and at the speed at which the polls put their political future in serious trouble. They are now delaying the modification by the internal gurigay they have in the Council of Ministers and because they care more about the prebenda of their coalition than about the integrity and dignity of the victims. The damage is irreparable. Released prisoners and reduced sentences no longer have a solution, but will be modified for the future. Madam Minister, as the PP is not part of the problem, we have wanted to be part of the solution to an error of this magnitude. In December, we registered a bill that rectified its legislative barbarity and the Government had not allowed its debate for more than seventy days, even yesterday they denied the convening of a plenary session. Are you aware that every five hours the penalty is reduced to one offender and that every two days another is released? Respond now, Minister! [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs. Montesinos. Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u59	Your Honor, impassive not, impassive not because the Socialist Parliamentary Group has put forward a proposal for a law to reform the focus of the problem of that law, which is the penalties. [[Rumors]] But, look, I return to the content of your question: the judges and magistrates, this defense that hides the People's Party from doing. They belong to a mature career, a professional career, an independent career and do not need any political party, let alone the People's Party, to protect them. What they do need is that the body that gives them protection, according to the Organic Law of the Judiciary, is renewed, which is the General Council of the Judiciary. Moreover, it is disgraceful that the People's Party stands up as the defender of the judges and magistrates of our country when it is the biggest adversary of Spanish justice, and its words and facts demonstrate it. Look, his words: We're going to control the Supreme Court through the back door; this is what the prosecution tunes you up to. And his deeds: 1539 days failing to comply with the Constitution. They renew the General Council of the Judiciary, which is their obligation. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] - of Mrs Elena Castillo López, of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, which forms the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda: Are they going to deplete the political responsibilities of the Chamber in the contract for the manufacture of new trains? [[File number 180/001176]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u60	Questions to the Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. Question by Mrs Elena Castillo López, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u61	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, President Sánchez will pass into history as the president of the only one is yes, the president who reduced the sentence to the aggressors by unprotecting the victims, unprotecting the women, and you, Madam Minister, will be remembered as the minister of the trains that did not fit through the tunnels, the minister who hid the chapuza of the contract of the new trains close to Cantabria and Asturias. This fiasco is a political irresponsibility and management of yours, Minister, who knew the error detected during the design phase of the trains and did nothing in these two years, but also of Revilla and of Barbón who, knowing or not of the facts, did not make any kind of follow-up or'claim of a contract vital to our region. Ever since the news broke, you've been waiting for the storm to subside. He sacrificed two pawns from his board, but he didn't win the game. To reach a pact of silence with Barbón and with Revilla, it was necessary to make a real electoral sacrifice: the cessation of high-ranking posts and the compensation of the tickets on trains of nearer than forty years that circulate through a 19th-century infrastructure and fail more than a trade fair shotgun. By the way, Minister, a gratuity that is already applied throughout Spain right now. And a dead king, king put. You put Mr. White at the head of Renfe, the person who symbolizes the failure in the design and execution of the PAST of the electric vehicle. They reward him not for his merits, but for maintaining the quota of the Socialist Party of Catalonia. And you, minister, chief minister in charge of your ministry, are still sitting there, I imagine thinking that if Irene Montero has not gone, why are you going to go? That is why we ask you: what responsibility will you assume in all this, minister? Was she the only one in your ministry who didn't know anything? [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u62	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Castillo, I have already explained this repeatedly: I am the first angry and outraged to know this situation. [[Rumors]] Yes, and that is why I did not hesitate to go to Cantabria, to face up, to apologize, to acknowledge the error, to commission an internal audit, to set up a working group to, above all, once the error has been acknowledged, to address the solutions, which is what interests the Cantabrians and the Asturians, and we did so in less than forty-eight hours. In addition, I would also like to remind you that this same Saturday we published a ministerial order to modify the instruction on gallibos and tunnels and that on Monday we held a meeting with the presidents of Cantabria and Asturias to-insist - focus on the solution of the problem and reach an agreement that, of course, benefits everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u64	Mrs. Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u65	This thyme, minister, is not arranged with crumbs. We will remain marginalized until at least 2026. We will lose and pay, but we will not forget, Minister. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u66	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. No, you don't forget. You have, of course, a selective memory, because I would like you to clarify why during the previous People's Party government you did not order the purchase of a single train destined for the vicinity. [[Applauds.-During the intervention of the minister Mrs. Castillo López shows several times a tape metric]] Really, I'd like you to explain that. It must be that good people don't care about having trains - which in Cantabria and Asturias are half - over forty years old. And it has been this government that, since 2018, has commissioned the renovation of rolling stock with the purchase of more than 345 trains for all of Spain for an amount, an investment, of more than 3.5 billion euros. Therefore, I insist, it has not been manufactured - that too we have said - no train, no train design has been produced or no train design and manufacture has ever been produced. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u68	Mrs. Vazquez, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u69	I understand that you are frustrated because, in truth, what did Cantabria achieve with a cantabrian minister of the People's Party? What did you get? Nothing. [[Applauds]] Look, this government has increased the budget allocated to Cantabria by more than 25%. You were and are specialists in selling smoke. They presented a close-up plan for Cantabria and Asturias that only stood on paper because it had no funding, had no written projects behind it and the only thing they did... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. - THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHAT TIME ARE YOU GOING TO SUBMIT THE PUBLIC INFORMATION OF THE MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA THE PRACTICAL STUDY OF THE A-40 AUTHORITY'S ACCOUNT-TERUEL SUPPORT, RECOGNITED IN THE INVESTIGATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PSOE AND TERUEL EXISTS, AND IN PARTS OF THE GENERAL BUDGETS OF THE STATE FOR 2021, 2022 AND 2023? [[File number 180/001165]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u71	Question by Mr Tomás Guitarte Gimeno, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u72	Good morning. At what point will your ministry submit to public information the information study of the Cuenca-Teruel section of the A-40 motorway?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u73	Minister for Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u74	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Guitarte, our will, as you know, is to continue to drive the N-330 corridor and also that of the N-420 between Teruel and Cuenca, in coordination, of course, with the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge. That is why I am telling you that we will shortly be carrying out the interim approval of the study to submit it to public information. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u75	Mr. Guitarte.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u76	Madam Minister, the history of this motorway is a continuous misunderstanding and a lack of commitment, an example of the institutional abandonment to which this sector of the Iberian Peninsula has been subjected. In 1993 this highway appeared for the first time in state planning, that is, thirty years ago. Eight years later, in 2001, the informative study was proposed, i.e. twenty-two years ago; a first informative study that had a negative DIA, which we will then discuss. Subsequently, the second tender was made in 2009, i.e. 14 years ago. We've been writing an informative study for 14 years. I do not know if this is crossing the Strait of Gibraltar or a more complex work, but of course fourteen years seem many years to make an informative study. We managed to take it back thanks to our investment agreement with you, but we have already been three years since that investment agreement and this informative study that was being drafted has not yet been completed. For us - as you well know - the Cuenca-Teruel relationship is not only the relationship between two cities, it is the opening of a transversal axis of peninsular scope that will vertebrate a very wide area of Spain that is included between the A-2, the A-3 and the A-7, a vast territory of more than 25 000 square kilometers that has no vertebrate axis, precisely because of its isolation, its lack of accessibility and, consequently, its difficulties for economic development. And these difficulties are progressively leading us to depopulation processes. Indeed, this Government has stated that one of its objectives is to combat this depopulation process. For us it is regrettable to see how easily DIA is being granted in our territory in favour of the implementation of micro-renewable energy plants very quickly, in just six months, while we have been waiting for more than twelve years for a DIA of communication essential and transcendental for our development. On the other hand, we see that we are again a territory of sacrifice and do not want to give us opportunities, which are not only for Teruel or for Cuenca, but are for a wide territorial sector that is unvertebrated within the Iberian Peninsula. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u77	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Guitarte, you know, and I also had the opportunity yesterday to reiterate in the Senate, that our intention is to comply with the state pact for repopulation and territorial rebalancing, signed, it is true, with its political formation as an investment agreement. Therefore, I also want to say that I think it is fair to acknowledge that we are making great strides in Teruel in many respects and, above all, in those who are responsible for this ministry, the ministry he led. As far as A-40 is concerned, we are not standing at all. In 2018, we resumed the informational study that had stopped since 2012 and promoted a preliminary project to respond to environmental demands. Once the Ministry for the Ecological Transition reported on the content of this environmental study, we began to develop a text to obtain the favorable DIA, and not as what happened, I insist, in 2012. We have made more than 4000 environmental plans, we have characterized an area greater than 3 million square kilometers and we have also made the characterization of flora and fauna, which has involved the carrying out of field work at various times of the year. However, as I said at the outset, we are going to submit to public information the study that we are going to approve immediately on an interim basis. I would also like to recall that in this same corridor we have prioritized the bidding of the works of adequacy of the Teruel-Villastar section of the N-330, whose works are already in progress and which involve an investment of 16 million euros. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] - OF JOSÉ'S DEPARTMENT MARÍA MAZÓN RAMOS, OF THE JOINT PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA: WHAT IS THE CHRONOGRAM CONTemplATING THE MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT, MOBILITY AND URBAN AGENDA FOR THE POSTING OF NEW TRAINS CONTRACTED FOR THE METRIC ANCHOLINES NEEDED FOR CANTABRIA AND ASTURIA? [[ANTIGUA FEVE]] [[File number 180/001148]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u79	Question by Mr José María Mazón Ramos, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u80	Madam Minister, although you already advanced it in your reply on Monday, even with a document signed with the presidents of Cantabria and Asturias, Mr.Revilla and Mr.Barbón, I want you to make some further progress here today. They are valuable commitments and have been well received, but I asked you in my question, which was registered three weeks ago when this whole mess was made public, a detailed schedule of what they were going to do to solve the problem. The truth is that his ministry has acted badly in the management of the train contract and also badly in the very bad response when the problems were made public and was allowed to pass on to the public that trains had been manufactured that were not fit in the tunnels and that had been thrown into the garbage millions of euros. Many televisions devoted entire afternoons to this stunt. Now we want to know when we are going to have new trains and when we are going to have a service of worthy proximity. We're not like the PP, who thinks he's caught electoral flesh and doesn't plan to let go until the May elections. [[Rumors]] With the PRC they're going to stick to bone, because we've been in the whole legislature demanding that the commitments to Cantabria continue to be fulfilled. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u81	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u82	That's why most of them are being fulfilled. His department, despite the pandemic and the economic crisis, has always informed us of how the works go and what are not works, such as Valdecilla's payment, but we could not imagine what happened in a supply contract and no one informed us. They have already assumed high-level responsibilities. I just want you to agree with the new appointments, it is not easy to manage a ministry like yours. I hope you will tell me something more than what you signed on Monday, that you have been able to transmit from your department some data that is not reflected or proper to a document such as the one signed with the presidents.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u83	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u84	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. I really appreciate the tone of your speech, after a few days of so much noise and so much misinformation, because it is also true that there has been a lot of misinformation throughout this incident. It is true, last Monday I held a meeting with the president of Cantabria and the president of Asturias and informed them that we would have ready the final design of the trains before this summer or this summer approximately in order to be able to start the manufacture of the same at the end of the year and thus, from 2026, it could be produced delivery. Also, as a result of that meeting, we signed an agreement to accelerate the transformation of services and the improvement of infrastructure within the framework of the neighbourhood plan. I myself will lead the follow-up to that agreement, that close-up plan, to ensure that we can somehow compensate for the impact of this error. But I would also like to go into detailing the content of those agreements a little further. As you also pointed out, one of them involves the recognition of the gratuitousness of nearby services in Asturias and Cantabria until the trains arrive. We will also extend the contract to supply seven new trains, seven more trains of metric width. We will also launch a plan for the total renewal of the fleet, generating a new contract for the acquisition of new trains and we will also create - which I think is very important - a commissioner to boost all these investments and all these agreements. It is also very important that we make a commitment to promote the integration of the nearby centres of Asturias and Cantabria, so that travellers can use a single ticket indistinctly to use and exchange the conventional network and the metric width network. We will also study and implement an improvement plan to be able to adjust services and schedules and thus offer less travel time to users. Therefore, we will continue to work to improve services in Cantabria, as we have been doing all these years and, above all, to achieve our objectives. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Mazon.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u86	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although it is nothing new. I didn't expect much more either. It is not a question of taking more blood out of the problem, but of seeking solutions. We are going to be very anxious that the agreements you have signed will be fulfilled because that will be your battle horse, which you will have very much in mind from here to the next elections. Thank you very much. - OF THE PERCIVAL DONATION MANGLANO ALBACAR, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM: IS IT Satisfied with the implementation of the European Funds allocated to its Ministry? [[File number 180/001177]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u87	Question to the Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism. Question by Mr Percival Manglano Albacar, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u88	Minister, one of the pillars of your campaign in Madrid is your management capacity. We know how to manage, you repeat without ceasing. Let's see what the data says about it. [[Show a chart]] This is a graph of the budget execution of all ministries as of November last year. I almost don't have the twenty-two ministries on the sheet. Where are you? Here? You'd like that. Here? You'd like that. You're the last, the worst, the red light. You made a 29% budget implementation last year. And the same could be said of European funds. In the year 2021 you spent 6% of the European funds you received and, as of November last year, you had implemented 25%. His ministry has been the one that has received the most European funds and the one that has had the least capacity to inject them into the Spanish real economy. I am not surprised that you were hidden during the visit of the European delegation this week. And what has Mr. Almeida done in the face of his catastrophe? So look: budget implementation of the Madrid City Council, 90%. [[shows a document]] I mean, where you take out a 3,10, Almeida takes out a 9,10, and you come to complain about Almeida's management capacity. Really, this is surreal. Objectively, you are the worst manager of the entire Sanchez government. [[Applauds]] Sánchez punishes her, sends her exiled to the City Council of Madrid and you can think of no better idea than to land in Madrid by taking the breasts out of your management capacity. But really, who are your advisors? They're his worst enemies. [[Laughter]] That being said, one thing is true, Sánchez and you so much ride, ride so much; from the beginning, everything Mr Sánchez has approved has done with his support: the law of yes is yes, pardons to prisoners, attacks on the Community of Madrid. That is why I ask you: Do you intend to do in Madrid what Sánchez has done in Spain? [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u89	Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u90	Thank you very much, President. I see, Your Honor, that you are campaigning for Mr. Almeida, it will be that you do not have the capacity to face this good candidate for the Mayor of Madrid. [[Applauds]] I'll update your data. You were talking about implementation data in November 2022, and I am going to give you the data on the closure of the budget year, because that is the data that Mrs Engracia presented a few weeks ago to embellish that management, in my opinion, harmful to the budget of the Community of Madrid. We have closed, Your Honor, the year 2022 with an execution of 95% in my ministry. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] We have executed 4629 million euros, Your Honor. Despite their lies, their falsehoods, this ministry and this government manage, and we are an example, Your Honor, in the European Commission, of the implementation of European funds. I will tell you what the People's Party has done: first, it went to Brussels to boycott the European funds, and it could not; then, it voted against this plenary so that the instrument would not be implemented, and now, Your Honor, they are questioning the good management that the Government and the Ministry of Industry are doing of these budgets. And I'm telling you, 95% execution, 4629 million. But I don't want to stay on the figures, I want to give you some examples. We have implemented in industry, in the PERTE, EUR 1441 million, which have contributed, for example, to bringing important investments, also here in the Community of Madrid, as the Vice-President in the United Kingdom is now selling it, saying that Microsoft will bring here three data centres. I remind you that the first vice president and I, who were in Seattle, meeting with Microsoft CEOs, brought these investments to Madrid; in tourism, 1380 million euros; and in trade, more than 200 million euros. In short, in the face of their lies and falsehoods, examples of the good execution that this government is making in European funds. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u91	Mr. Manglano.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u92	Madam Minister, did you have 29 % executed in November and expect me to believe that you have done 95 % in December? [[Laughter]] But no one believes it. Let's go back to the question I asked you, you're looking at it from the socialist bench. A predecessor of his said it very clearly : I would like for Madrid what Zapatero has done in Spain - he said in El País -. [[shows a document]] He's been ministering for five years in Sanchez. Say, do you want for Madrid what Zapatero and Sánchez have done for Spain? Please tell us. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u93	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u94	Thank you, President. I see, Your Honor, that you persist in campaigning for Mr. Almeida. I insist, I hope Mr Almeida has time to compete with this good candidate. [[Laughs. - Rumors.]] Of course we're doing a lot of good things in Madrid; we're raising pensions by 8.5%, we're raising the interprofessional minimum wage... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u95	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u96	...,we're planning the free public transport. But I tell you the following: Madrid has received more than 2250 million of the European funds, and President Ayuso has been unable to take out the budgets because she is unable to agree, as she is doing with the health care workers. Free public health. Thank you very much. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u97	Quiet, please. - OF THE IGNACIO GIL LAZARO, OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE LORD MINISTER OF PRESIDENCE, RELATIONS WITH THE COURTS AND DEMOCRATIC MEMORY: WILL SOMEONE, IF - OJALA DOESN'T HAPPEN - SOME OF THE EXCARCELATED BY THE LAW OF THE 'YES YES' COME BACK TO DENIQUE AGAINST A MENOR OR A WOMEN? [[File number 180/001169]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u98	Question to the Minister for the Presidency: Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. Question by Mr Ignacio Gil Lázaro, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u99	Thank you, President. Minister, I hope it does not happen - he stressed what he said: I hope it does not happen - but if any of those imprisoned by the law of yes is indeed again delinquent against a minor or a woman, will anyone from this government resign or be ceased? [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u100	Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Gil Lazarus, you keep asking me questions that I don't have to answer, like last week. I gladly answer it, in the background because I like to hear its tone, that tone that brings us back to previous decades plaster color in black and white of your questions. [[Laughter and applause]] I also say that I am glad that you are asking a question about violence against women, because that means that it also starts to worry you and, therefore, is the first step to stop you from trivialising violence against women and recognizing that the policies that this Government is doing are state policies to defend women. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u102	Mr. Gil Lazarus.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u103	What a pity, Minister, that you have not yet realized the immense ridiculousness you make with that tone of answers. But, finally, no one here has resigned or been ceased as a result of the perverse effects of the law of yes, which creates insecurity in minors and women; he has not, of course, resigned from the President of the Government, who is primarily responsible for allowing that bordrio to be approved in the Council of Ministers only because of his particular interest in not disturbing Podemos; she has not resigned or has been terminated by Mrs Irene Montero, who is the main driver of this matter and who has subsequently been allowed to threaten and insult judges to try to cover up her fiasco; she has not resigned or been ceased by the Secretary of State for Equality, who mocked the concern of the victims; and, listen, you have not resigned or been ceased, who is the main responsible for the internal coordination of the Government and who has also lied that no one has warned them of the effects that the law was going to cause, when he hid to lie a report from his own ministry which he specifically warned of this. This major scandal, Minister, shows the incapacity, the irresponsibility, the frivolity, the lack of internal cohesion and the immense political shame of this Government, and it continues to do so, because at this point the two factions of the Government are unable to agree by prioritizing their respective party interests to address the reform of the law. That is why, Minister, I am telling you clearly today on behalf of millions of outraged Spaniards, if any of those prisoners are again delinquent, someone will have to be immediately suspended or resigned; he will not consent to Spain's Government then continuing as it has so far done, he will not allow Spain to do so. Take very good note of all of you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u104	Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u105	Thank you, Madam President. I must admit that it is perplexing to me that you make this intervention when the history of your party is what we all know about defending women's rights. You don't even talk about sexist violence or gender-based violence, you talk about domestic violence. You have consistently voted against women's rights in this House; systematically, always, not everything. You have called the March 8 marches the marches of death, you have called it your ultra-rightist group. And, of course, they try to prevent the right to voluntary termination of women's pregnancy. By the way, let us hope that Mr Feijóo has already clarified whether it is a right or not, and whether women exercising the right to voluntary termination of pregnancy are good people or not, because we do not know who will look good to Mr Feijóo, as does Mr Bárcenas or Mr Rato. [[Rumors]] It seems to me good people who raise wages, who raise pensions, who raise the minimum wage, who raise scholarships and who extend women's rights. [[applause]] That is why I ask Mr Feijóo to clarify who is good people for him and to do so without papers, because we want to know what he thinks, even though we are concerned about the outdated of his idea. We are a government, Mr. Gil Lazarus, proudly feminist. We've been doing policies to improve women's lives for five years. When the minimum wage is raised, it benefits women at 60%; when we do the job reform, it eliminates the temporary and precariousness of women; when we raise scholarships, above all, it also benefits women; and when we equate paternity and maternity leave, what we do is prevent women in job interviews from asking if they are going to have children in the future. That is why we are a government that is committed to equality and feminism, that feminism that has done so much for Spain and democracy, although you do not care very much about democracy and feminism. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPUTY DON JOAN CAPDEVILA I STEVE, OF THE REPULICIAN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHAT IS THE GOVERNMENT'S COMMITMENT IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONCEPT 'ONE HEALTH'? [[File number 180/001164]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u106	Questions to the Minister of Health. Question by Mr Joan Capdevila i Esteve, Member of the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, let's make an effort, you and I, to get out of this node atmosphere. What is the Government's commitment to implementing the one health concept?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u108	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Capdevila, for that invitation to the present, but especially to the future. I would like to comment that the Government of Spain is fully committed to the one-health approach, that is, a single health, especially in order to carry out a comprehensive policy that addresses human health, animal health and environmental health as one of the key vectors for an optimal overall health policy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u110	Mr. Capdevila.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u111	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor, for your intentions, but we did not come to ask you for words, but a little more numbers. I'm going to provide you with some you probably already know. We are already 8 billion people on the planet and here it begins to be very hot, more than we can afford. ISGlobal tells us that more people will die from heat than from cold and The Lancet that in the Spanish state will double those deaths in just over thirty years. It makes no sense for a sector such as health to have a carbon footprint similar to that of coal plants that are still open, in addition to important anthropological challenges linked to climate change, such as changing disease vectors, food security and intensive livestock farming. We are faced with the problem of antimicrobial resistance. In the Spanish state, 4,000 people die a year from multi-resistant bacteria. Both conditions will obviously affect the most vulnerable to a greater extent. A comprehensive approach to health is needed that considers the interdependence between human health, the health of the planet and the health of animals. It is a pity that the Minister of Finance has left, but her commitment is also to equal VAT for all health services, and the veterinarian remains at 21 %. Who else has to tell you, Minister? There are countless reasons to convene fewer expert meetings and take more action. It's burning down the building and we're just calling neighbors' meetings. Minister, you're not doing anything meaningful or quantifiable, and it's getting hot here. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Capdevila. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Capdevila. Let's talk facts. You'll agree with me that the zoonosis pandemic has left us many lessons. One of them is the need for that comprehensive vision that you have established in your speech and with which we fully agree. I will quote some facts and realities that the Spanish Government is carrying out. We have adopted the first Strategic Health and Environment Plan, PEZMA, which faces commitments and which also recognizes the impact of the environment and climate change on health. We have identified up to fourteen environmental factors that directly affect health. This plan aims to improve the quality of life and, above all, to reduce the risks to the health of citizens and already has a first programme of action with very concrete actions, such as the reduction of the carbon footprint in the National Health System, with the impetus of the new Observatory of Health and Climate Change. In addition, as a result of this commitment and of this one-health approach, we have recently approved the Strategic Plan against Antibiotic Resistance, the PRAN, for the period 2022-2024; a plan with six strategic lines that addresses the approach in both human and animal health. I would like to share with this House that Spain has made significant progress in this 2014 plan. We have managed to reduce antibiotic use in animals by 60% and in humans by 25%. I think it's important data that allows us to move forward. But we have also just approved the certification standards for the PROA, hospital and community teams, where we are pioneers in Europe, and therefore it is also the way forward. And there is one issue that seems to us to be fundamental. We are moving forward to increase this preventive capacity response in the Public Health Surveillance Strategy, which includes everything, not only health, human, but also animal, to have that comprehensive approach and, above all, to achieve homogeneous surveillance throughout the national territory or, also, the law of public health agencies. In short, Your Honor, an integral approach, with concrete facts, with realities and commitments of present and future. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF GARCIA, OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, WHO FORMULATES THE MINISTER OF HEALTH: WHAT VALUATION DOES THE GOVERNMENT OF THE HEALTH SITUATION IN THE COUNTRY? [[File number 180/001179]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u114	Question by Mrs Inés Arrimadas García, Member of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u115	Mrs Darias, access to health services between different autonomous communities differs enormously. For example, 72% of the population in the Basque Country have access to screening programmes against colon cancer, in Balearic Islands only 30%. He quotes with the gynecologist, in Valencia we have to wait 104 days, which is already a shame, but it is that in Aragon they are more than double, 215. There are 140 different days to put on a hip prosthesis depending on where you live. What has to happen if you are to take letters on the matter and dare to centralize - yes, centralize - the health skills that are necessary to ensure good service to all Spaniards?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u116	Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Your Honor, the truth is that you live in a model anchored in the past, that's how it goes. More than twenty years ago, health transfers to the autonomous communities have taken place, and I believe that at this time, despite the difficulties, the pandemic has been the strength of the National Health System and also the need for improvement in areas in which we are working intensively, without competence in this Government, but with determination and commitment to the Government of Spain led by President Sánchez. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u118	Mrs. Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u119	They don't even want to talk about centralization. Do you know what we are indisputable health leaders around the world? In transplants. Is this a system of the past, as you say, Mrs. Darias? What is the key to success, in addition to the magnificent professionals and the altruism of the Spaniards? Which is a centralized and national system. Are you going to tell me that it's unconstitutional or that it works worse because it's centralized? Do not say that the centralization of some competences cannot be done, because it is not that the autonomous communities cannot share health management with you too, but that it is that you in the Government of Spain do your job. It's about having a functioning National Health System, not seventeen that ever work worse. Moreover, that is the problem, that you prioritize the bureaucracy to the health of the Spaniards and we prioritize the health of the Spaniards to the bureaucracy. The system has not collapsed by the magnificent professionals we have, who are the most trained and the most handed out, but our system is underdeveloped and totally uncoordinated. And we're not really interested in their fights between the PP and the PSOE, as the PSOE always says that the blame for everything is the PP and the PP says it's the PSOE. There are problems throughout Spain, governing those who rule, and there are abysmal differences between autonomous communities governed by the same party. Do you, as a minister, mind this or is it focused on your election campaign for the municipalities? Look, inequality in health is the worst possible, because it is the one that determines whether you live or die, often it is a thin line between living or dying, and you do nothing to solve it. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u120	Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, I see you worried about the election campaign. Don't worry about my future election, which is fine with me. Worry about yours, that while you will be left with the seats of the guagua; you will be left with the seats of the guagua, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Title VIII is there and so is the area of competition. I believe that the model you are presenting does not work in Spain, and I will tell you why, but I will especially tell you what this government is doing without expertise in health care, providing solutions and providing resources as never before in the history of the National Health System, to improve each and every one of its capacities. We are carrying out unprecedented reforms and investments. In the field of health care: 94 000 more health care workers than in 2018; 67 000 stabilization places to stop the temporaryity, something that was fundamental in the National Health System, and I suppose you will be concerned; 40 per cent more in specialized health training places than in 2018 and 52 million more euros to increase the places of public medical schools. As far as investment is concerned: EUR 1 billion for primary care; EUR 800 million for the investment plan for high-tech equipment infrastructure; EUR 280 million for proton therapy; EUR 800 million for the Digital Health Strategy; EUR 100 million for genomic medicine; EUR 100 million for mental health; EUR 12 million for cancer screening in the autonomous communities - although we do not have competence - also, Mrs Arrimadas and EUR 70 million for addressing rare diseases, including ALS. [[applause]] Also important reforms such as the Public Health Strategy, the State Agency for Public Health, the new surveillance regulations, the improved active retirement for doctors - especially primary care and also primary pediatricians -, the Royal Decree of Specialties - at last - to have these specialties so longed for, Specialty Program of Family and Community Medicine and modification of the framework statute. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are rebuilding what the neoliberal cuts of the People's Party have left, a health system touched and wounded, with determination...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u122	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applauds]] - OF THE DEPARTMENT OF MARGARITE PROHENS RIGO, OF THE PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENTARY GROUP AT THE CONGRESS, FORMING THE MINISTER OF EQUALITY: HOW MUCH BORRATORS HAVE EXCHANGE BETWEEN MINISTERS OF JUSTICE AND EQUALITY WITH THE OBJECTIVE OF REFORMING The "Yes Yes" law? [[File number 180/001175]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u123	Question addressed to the Minister for Equality. Question by Mrs Margarita Prohens Rigo, Member of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u124	Thank you, Madam President. Trains do, women don't. It's a good motto for your March 8 banner. There are 544 sex offenders benefiting and half a hundred released. A few weeks ago, I exposed a case of Baleares here in Congress. I didn't mean to do it again, but a family in Mallorca has sent me their sentence. How a man took advantage of the trust of a family to abuse his 13 - year - old, disabled daughter, raping up to seven times and giving her birth control pills later. Thanks to you, thanks to the Sanchez law, that monster, you have reduced your sentence from ten to seven years. The law that put consent in the center, they said. The damage is irreversible, but what else has to happen? How many drafts have you exchanged with Justice? Gentlemen of the PSOE, stop this madness, call a plenary this week, here you have the votes of the People's Party for it, and change this horn. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u125	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u126	Thank you, President. Your Honor, we have exchanged a multitude of documents, but listening to it, I think the most important thing is that we can reach an agreement before giving you the opportunity to vote in favour of returning to the Penal Code of violence and intimidation. [[Rumors.-Applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u127	Mrs. Prohens.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u128	Mrs. Montero, you have no shame or decency. [[Applauds]] Mrs. Montero, you've done it again. It was Mrs. Llop who had to admit that the law trans... [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u129	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u130	...unprotects women who are victims of gender-based violence. You have done it again, you propose and Mr Sánchez arranges. He's done it again, they've done it again, they've done it again, they've done it again, they've done it again, they've done it again, they've done it again, they've done it again, Yes, and I say women because this is what we are, women; we are not menstruating beings, we are women; we are not pregnant parents, we are mothers, heterosexual mothers, lesbians, divorced, single, large families, adoptive mothers; proud women, proud mothers too, convinced of achieving full equality and convinced that this Government has become an obstacle for all. It is no longer enough for you to leave, the entire government will have to go to stop the attacks on the women of this country, all of them, regardless of our beliefs, our orientation, our language, regardless of all this are attacking us all. [[applause]] Ask forgiveness, rectify and resign yes or yes, Minister. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u131	Madam Minister of Equality.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u132	Thank you, President. First of all, Your Honor, stop spreading bubbles and stop spreading transphobia. The threat to women is machismo, not trans people. [[Applauds]] Secondly, the problem you have is that you have always been against feminist rights and against women's rights. They are always part of the reaction to these advances, and we have not only seen a reaction to the law of the self it is, but in 2008, four years after the adoption of the law combating gender-based violence, Minister Bibiana Aido publicly asked the judges to apply the law so as not to leave women unprotected and give them adequate protection from the State. There has always been a reaction to feminist advances and you, unfortunately, are part of that reaction. His arguments against the law of the one's own did not have anything to do with the reduction of convictions of sexual aggressors. You said we were going to have sex with a contract... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u133	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u134	... that we had to say yes, yes, yes all the time - as Mrs Cayetana Álvarez de Toledo said - that we would not be able to say beautiful to a woman, that we were putting an end to the presumption of innocence of men and that in the courts of violence against women it was left unprotected to men. They didn't want them to have criminal charges that are to you the magic of love, but which turns out to be violence against women, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen of the House, that we cannot give the People's Party and VOX the opportunity to return to the Penal Code of violence and intimidation, to distinguish two types of aggression according to whether or not there is violence and to penalise the victims, who are the majority, who cannot prove that violence. The Penal Code was a Penal Code of Impunity for Sexual Aggressors that left the victims unprotected, basing their credibility on the wounds and marks that the violence exerted on their bodies. So I ask you, please, that we sit down and not get up from the table until we reach an agreement, that we do not give the reactionaries, the enemies of women's rights, to return to the Penal Code of La Manada, that we reach an agreement to maintain consent at the centre and give a united response, the government and the feminist majority in this House, to social concern and concern... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u135	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u136	...for court rulings on the reduction of sentences. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, we can-in common may-Galicia in common, stand up.-Rumores.-Mrs.Angolo Romero speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u137	Mrs. Angulo, please be quiet. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please. [[Protests.-Mr. Guijarro García pronounces words that are not perceived]] Mr. Guijarro, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u138	We are now dealing with the appeals addressed to the Government. Urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group into a new system of basic financing which will lead to the strengthening of research and development centres. For your defence, Mr. Margall Sastre has the floor. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please. Any time, Mr. Margall.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u139	Thank you, President. Good morning, minister. [[Start your speech in Catalan]] On these dates exactly three years ago, the news of the arrival in Europe of a coronavirus from China was no longer a mere speculation or news that was solved with a few sentences in some subtitle of a newspaper, but that it was beginning to be a threat to world health, as warned by WHO, and also to the economy, although we were not yet very aware of it. Less than a month later, in particular on 15 March 2020, the population was confined due to the serious public health problem resulting from the declared global pandemic. In those moments of great anguish and in the subsequent months the imperative need for investment in science, research and development was highlighted, an investment that for many years was not the priority of the different Spanish governments, both socialist and popular, that neglected for a long time the games for research and innovation, while they devoted huge amounts of money to military research. [[The Lord]] How far away then was that phrase of Unamuno pronounced in 1906 that said: 'Invent them'. It is clear that in these three years the debate on the need to increase the funding of research centres has advanced and is central and cross-cutting. Not by chance, the law of science was passed in this House by 279 votes in favour and was accepted by all the institutions and virtually all the political actors - not all of them, because, as always, some have the need to give the note, even in this which generates such a consensus, such as, for example, the Junta de Castilla y León, where the People's Party government, with the ultra-right negationist, has cut the budget in research -. It is therefore very necessary to have a new system of basic funding for research centres in order to make progress in this area by providing them with more resources, resources, tools and, above all, qualified staff. It is true that in the last year we have made significant progress with the adoption of the amendment of the law of science, which provides important legal tools to move forward on this path, among others, those in the field of work and recognition of the careers of researchers in this country, in addition to legally shielding the obligation to place items in the general budgets of the State intended for investment in scientific research. She knows, Minister, that we have reached several agreements to make the reform of this law a success; deep and important agreements, which, in our opinion, improved the law, with a new framework that would give way and implementation to historical demands of the sector, which has never been given the necessary recognition. Needless to say, research and development are the only realistic insurance policy for the survival of our civilization in the immediate future, the clauses that will be used sooner or later, since what in a year may be unlikely perhaps in a century is inevitable. One of the closed agreements between the ministry and our parliamentary group for the adoption of the law was the creation of a committee of experts to work on the development of a new model of basic funding for research centres in the Spanish State, work that should have been completed before the end of the year. However, we are on 22 February and these work has not yet been completed. Moreover, as far as we know, the last meeting of this Sanhedrin was on 28 November. Minister, there are successful models in the management and financing of research centres and you know them very well thanks to your assiduous visits to Catalonia. He knows that the Catalan model of research centres CERCA has been a successful model for years, recognised at European level. There are currently 41 CERCA centres, a research focus in various areas, spread across the country, with revenues coming directly from the Generalitat; competitive revenues coming from the Government, the State, the European Union, sponsorship and financial services and revenues. At present the CERCA centres are the seventh European research institution to raise funds. With EUR 288 million and a total of 87 aid, it is in the sixth European position to receive aid, also attracting more than 50% of the support funds that Catalonia receives. It is, therefore, a model to give back to excellence, with a public-private collaboration that works and can serve as an example. Catalonia is the second autonomous community in the Spanish state with more funding in research per capita and per GDP and, by the way, if they give us a little more time, now that we manage the consultancy, you will see that soon we will be the first. But, minister, although it is true that we are on the right track, there are still many shortcomings in the conglomerate of research centres in Catalonia and the Spanish State. These centers are not immune to the social and economic reality we live in, the result of the pandemic and the war in Ukraine. The growing need for more funding to open up new lines of research in a number of areas is compounded by the impact of the outpouring inflation we are experiencing in the past year, although it has been somewhat lowered in recent months. In this sense, sectors such as R+D+i, which are intensive in energy demand, suffer very directly this escalation. Most research and development centres have laboratories with technological equipment that require a great deal of energy to ensure their operation. An example that you know well, the Institut Cièncias del Mar, of the CSIC in Barcelona, has a cluster of computers and freezers at 60o below zero for samples, aquariums, etc., and in a few months has seen its energy bill multiplied by five despite having maintained that consumption. There are other issues that we must also address, such as, for example, the current regulatory framework for the system of registration of technology centres, which does not cover the new diversity of emerging technology and research centres over the past fifteen years, which is fraught with opportunities for access to finance, as well as the potential for action. It would be interesting to introduce flexibility in the governance model required to be part of this register, as this could promote the success of new models based on shared public-private management, and not eminently private, as is the case today. In addition, it should be noted that many technology centres are basically financed from autonomous funds, so this new model that is created, and which we advocate, should provide for the possibility for the autonomous authorities to have a voice and vote in the distribution of State resources and other funds available to the network of technology and development centres. It would also be desirable to establish international coordination mechanisms in order to be able to adapt to strategic needs in the boga. And, no doubt, there should be evaluation systems to ensure that the public funds devoted to development and research have a social return, because this is fundamental, it is the best way to ensure the transfer of knowledge and that the treasured capital is not lost or lost, a subject that we also work on amending the law of science. In short, a comprehensive review of this baseline funding should take all these parameters into account in order to make it truly useful and adapt to the needs of a modern research and development system. It is clear, therefore - and I am finishing this - that a new model of basic, structural funding for research centres is needed. It is necessary, when not indispensable, to strengthen this insurance policy for our survival, to retain talent and avoid brain drain, an indispensable capital that we cannot afford to lose. It is necessary, there are models of success where to fix ourselves and there is political will and in the sector to make it a reality: the ball is on its roof, minister. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u140	Thank you very much. I now give the floor, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Science and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u141	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today, exactly five and a half months ago, we adopted the new Science, Technology and Innovation Act, a transformative instrument that is already helping our country become richer precisely because it is a better country, where to invest and work in scientific research and technological development. Without any doubt, I believe that the real wealth of a society lies in its ability to preserve and increase its knowledge, I am fully convinced of it. That is why from this government we have prioritized from the first day on scientific knowledge and innovative development as axes of recovery, transformation and resilience of Spain. [[Applauds]] Moreover, we are doing so with responsibility and sensitivity and in collaboration with the autonomous communities, because science must be in all the territories of Spain. With that focus, we have worked tirelessly until we were able to adopt, without any vote against, a decisive instrument. We recall once again that the new law of science is a coral law, elaborated and improved since dialogue. I would remind you that it is a widely agreed law with the scientific, business and social organisations most representative of the Spanish system of science, technology and innovation, which served 85% of the proposals in the public hearing part, while it is also a law agreed with all the political parties in this House, which includes more than one hundred amendments from fourteen parliamentary forces. Pardon me, I have said all, but not with all; with all but the extremists, who, it seems, are once again interested in closing down in their intolerance also in science and knowledge. At this point no one escapes the more knowledge, less fanaticism, and vice versa. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, unlike other governments, we have not kept the law in a drawer. Since its entry into force on 7 September, we have also worked tirelessly for its immediate and in-depth deployment to improve our national science system, which is also a fundamental pillar of the welfare state. And we are moving forward in the direction that we also agreed with Esquerra Republicana and other parliamentary groups, to which, as Mr Maragall has said, I have to acknowledge that the law came even better out of the Congress of Deputies than we had written from the Ministry of Science and was approved in the Council of Ministers. However, it is true that, among all the contributions, all the inclusions and amendments, there was one that the People's Party presented in the Senate that made us believe the fallacy of choosing between scientific excellence of the centers or more rights and stability of the research staff. That amendment at first created confusion, but I want to say that also from the first moment, as Minister of Science, I said I was going to fight it because, without a doubt, I was going to make the law of science worse. Fortunately, we were able to fight it and, therefore, those engaged in science and innovation were not going to be that precarious island that the People's Party wanted in a country where all workers in all sectors work with an indefinite contract guaranteed through labour reform. From that moment on we also decided to accompany the application of the law, through which today no longer exists the contracts of work and service, they are history; therefore, we have moved from precariousness and temporality to indefinite contracts, this country no longer treats our researchers as eternal fellows. During those weeks the agrarians said that this would lead the system to chaos, collapse, paralysis of projects, at the end of excellence. This is an almost apocalyptic panorama that undoubtedly draws for the whole country and also for science. However, we have already started to engage indefinitely in the centres, and of course this solution that has worked for researchers has also served the research centres, which are still operating and are also receiving projects that have more funding. I will point out some of the details about how we are accompanying the application of the law of science, because we have not remained as mere spectators, but we are accompanying in this realization of rights. Thus, in addition to passing the law and thus guaranteeing these indefinite contracts, as we also agreed with the Republican Parliamentary Group, we have increased indirect costs from 21%, which already marked the law by obligation, to 25%. Therefore, all of our calls for projects will have that four-point margin so that research centres have that flexibility so that they can assume the new rights we have recognised. And speaking of this, I will give you an example, because at that time, when we made that announcement - Mr Margall, you will remember - there was also one who said that this was going to be to the detriment of direct costs and, therefore, to the detriment of projects and researchers. Well, no, and we've proven it with facts. We have already drawn, for example, the first call for projects from the state agency for knowledge generation, which is usually called a national plan. This plan has come with an investment increase of 14%, 63 million euros more, precisely so that research centres have that basic funding to be able to cover the new rights. And I'm going to give you another example of what the law has done. Since its entry into force, since September, all pre- and post-doctoral researchers who complete their contracts at universities and research centres are claiming that new right we have recognized, which is contract termination compensation. [[Applauds]] Nor have we stayed here as spectators in the Ministry of Science. We did not want to cause any treasure tension to the research centres, and the Ministry of Science has therefore committed itself to covering all the costs arising from these contract termination awards. And I'm not just talking about projects and contracts that come from the Ministry of Science or the Ministry of Universities; I'm talking about contracts that come from the autonomous communities and contracts that come from the research centres themselves, such as universities, which, as you know, are centres from the autonomous communities. We will therefore pay compensation to 18,000 young people in our country, which will amount to EUR 60 million by the Ministry of Science in four years. [[Applauds]] So, again, we accompany the funded centres, although it is not our obligation, so that they have basic funding to deal with these new rights. We also have two examples of success in our country. You were talking to me about CERCA, which are indeed an example of success. I would like to talk about the Severo Ochoa programme, which last year was increased by EUR 10 million, from EUR 44 million to EUR 54 million. You know that this is about strengthening our country's research centres of excellence, and I want to announce that this year we are going to increase it by 12.5% compared to the previous year and that the call will come out with 60.75 million euros, precisely in order to be able to strengthen that basic funding to our country's research centres of excellence. [[Applauds]] This represents a 50% increase over the budgets allocated by the People's Party to these projects of excellence, and therefore these centres of excellence will also have a 25% margin for indirect costs, from EUR 4 million to EUR 4.5 million over four years for the Severo Ochoa centres and from EUR 2 to EUR 2.25 million for the Maria de Maeztu units. Another example of a financing instrument has been supplementary plans, which have also been included in the law of science. Through the supplementary plans we have mobilised 466 million euros, which are now distributed among two hundred centres, where two thousand researchers work, which will generate a thousand new contracts in the science sector. It is an instrument of co-financing and therefore co-governance, but also co-responsibility in the financing of science. I note these two examples, the Severo Ochoa and María de Maeztu centres and also the complementary plans, because, based on them, we are going to meet that other commitment that we have made with you to improve the base funding system in our country. You know that, no doubt, this reform of the science financing system is necessary, and we share it, but it is also complex and profound. This is the first time that we have entered our country and is a paradigm shift. We will move from project-only funding to funding that also provides for baseline contributions to research groups based on their results. But, of course, we are committed to it and we remain committed to it. Indeed, these working groups have been formed, from which we have been gathering information and studying the formula, so what I can tell you today is that the Government of Spain, the Ministry of Science, is going to allocate an amount of EUR 30 million from its national budget precisely to launch a pilot project for a new system of funding research groups. [[Applauds]] Taking advantage of the formula of the supplementary plans, we will invite the Autonomous Communities not only to have a voice and vote, as you said, Mr Margall, but also to have co-responsibility in the investment of this new project, so that this pilot programme could come out with up to EUR 60 million in this first year. In conclusion, therefore, it is essential to return to the meaning of all this, which is nothing other than the fact that this Government has decided to rescue science and research from the historical precariousness that it has suffered in our country. We have definitely abandoned those conservative conceptions of a marginalized and precarious science. To be brave and believe in our scientific fabric has been what has brought us so far, so, ladies and gentlemen, I transmit to you that excellence without rights is only another form of exploitation and, as such, we will continue to overcome ourselves with the exercise of this government and with all the political forces that want to accompany us. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u143	Thank you, President. Minister, before I get into any of the issues you have commented on, I am going to take out a topic that you already know and that we have talked about many times but that I have not had time to explain in my first speech. This is the subject of the return of VAT to research centres. You already know that we aim to return VAT from research and development projects. Under current tax rules, both research and development centres and universities can recover the VAT they have paid by financing research activities, i.e. the Tax Agency has an obligation to return the VAT paid by the centres in due tax settlement. In spite of this, the Ministry of Finance is withholding it, refusing to return, something that runs counter to both Spanish and European legislation. However, partial dispensations or removals are offered to the centres in order to avoid litigation, which the State would probably lose. In 2016, for example, the Supreme Court handed down judgements in favour of the universities of Santiago de Compostela and Salamanca, which had sued the Treasury in connection with the tax agency's denunciation of the tax return. An agreement along this path would also be important to increase baseline funding or - if we want to say otherwise - structurally in research centres. There is jurisprudence, there is political will to do so, and I know that it suits you - we talked about it during the processing of the law of science -. We have already achieved the elimination of the double bank guarantee for scientific and technological parks and it seems to us that it would be a good way for the sector that we would expect the Treasury to return this VAT. You're right when you say you've done part of the deal. I think that raising four points the indirect costs to the centres has been a great success, despite those aggravations that you pointed out, which said that this would go on the basis of the directs, which was a lie, it was not written anywhere, although they had to look for some way of criticising our agreement, because, as always, when we agreed to move forward, we were criticized for that progress. You have given me some concrete examples, which are very good, like Severo Ochoa or Maria de Maeztu, but you have not told me all about the new model. That is to say, you have announced EUR 30 million, which can be sixty, but it seems to us that we can be a little more ambitious, and, if necessary, our support will have it, because we are talking about a very broad sector and, therefore, I think that that amount of money is going to be a good first step, although it will not be enough to change this model in depth. And, above all, we are concerned about what will happen when the European funds are no longer there. What will be the structural model when we do not have this injection of money from the European Union? It's complex, yeah. Maybe we need more time, yeah, it's true. In any case, I am more reassured by the feeling that they want this to be a reality as soon as possible, although the complexity of the matter is high. It is true that you and we have deep ideological discrepancies - the Government and its party and the Republican Parliamentary Group - but we believe that progress is being made on the basis of great agreements and consensus and we understand that in this area of science and research we can move forward together even if we have those profound ideological discrepancies. I ended up with an interesting phrase. Today, February 22, Albert Einstein visited Barcelona a hundred years ago. It was a visit that lasted for five days and had a great media impact because it had been awarded the Nobel, although it had not yet been collected and did so a year later. What Albert Einstein was saying about science - and I'm finishing, president - was: 'Putting new questions, new possibilities, considering old problems from a new angle, requires creative imagination and marks a real breakthrough in science'. Let's do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u144	Thank you. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Science and Innovation.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u145	Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Margall, you know as much as I do that the system is made up of many actors. In short, we are all called to make the science system a better system in our country, to take care of its scientists, to take care of its research centres and to give us the capacity to build this new country through science, knowledge and its transfer to society. We have to do it together and together. That is why it is still complex - and you will share with me - to change the funding model towards a base funding model in which we have to involve the actors, in a year - no one escapes - electoral, a year with the budgets already formed. I want to sit with the autonomous communities, I don't want to put them in a jam, I want us to work together. Because if we don't work together, we won't reach that 3% of GDP by the year 2030 to which we have committed ourselves in the law. Therefore, it is a job that, as I have told you, I am willing to do, although I do not want to make it a hardship for anyone either. But let us not escape this element of co-responsibility that if we, as the Government of Spain, take a step forward in the basic financing of research centres, so too will the Autonomous Communities, because, in most cases, we are talking, for example, about universities which are research centres and which do not belong to us as the Government of Spain. In short, as I have announced before, we will open a pilot program, which can be extended after much more and can grow. With regard to its concern about what will happen after the recovery plan, the budget of the Ministry of Science has grown by 20%, it is the third largest national budget. Therefore, we are already complying with what the law of science demands. But I would like to recall that in these five months, since the law came into force, we have also introduced and are deploying a talent attraction and retention plan, a transfer and collaboration plan, as well as the complementary plans, which are being so useful and effective in all the territories. In conclusion, I would not like to focus on the numbers anymore, because in the end the numbers are very suffered. I would like to speak more about what these policies mean and put names and surnames of real and concrete people who are benefiting from a law that we adopt together and together and, therefore, I believe that these names are a source of pride for all those who have made it possible. Evelina Leivada is a Ramón and Cajal researcher at Rovira i Virgili University, with a reduced day to take care of, who could not extend her contract Ramón and Cajal before the entry into force of this law and who will now be able to do so thanks to the law of science. Ignacio Jurado is a young researcher who in 2007, as many, had to leave our country, in this case to London - what Mrs. Fatima Báñez named as external mobility, but that others we have called flight of talent -, and his fear was that his parents were getting older and he was not at home. For to Ignacio Jurado we have been able to bring it with the last summons of Ramon and Cajal of our country, as to so many other scientists of our country to whom we have helped. Elena García Armada, Award to the best inventor in Europe in 2022, researcher of the Spanish public science system, of the CSIC, patented the first pediatric exoskeleton in the world that allowed Jorge, a twelve-year-old boy, on his birthday to fulfill his wish, which was to stand up for the first time in front of his classmates at his school. Sara García and Pablo Álvarez, our new astronauts, are also a demonstration that when we align the talent we have in our country with the opportunities we offer from the Spanish government, we can get things as big as reaching the moon. Also Oxana Udovic, one of the twenty Ukrainian researchers we have hosted in our country to continue doing science. Albert Camus said he wanted to be able to love his country without stopping loving justice. Well, believe me, with all the strength, with all the illusion, with all the knowledge, I have to tell you that that's exactly what we are in. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u146	Thank you. - OF THE VOX PARLIAMENTARY GROUP, TO THE MINISTER OF INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM ON THE MEASURES TO BE TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO PROTECT WHOM THEY CANNOT BUY A NEW VEHICLE BEFORE THE SALE OF COMBUSTION CARS IS PROHIBITED FROM 2035. [[File number 172/000274]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u147	Urgent inquiry by the VOX Parliamentary Group, to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Tourism, on the measures to be taken by the Government to protect those who are unable to acquire a new vehicle from the ban on the sale of combustion cars from 2035 onwards. For your defence, Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister of Industry, this urgent inquiry is presented by our parliamentary group, which can undoubtedly be described as the greatest threat to Spanish industry, such as the ban on the manufacture and sale of combustion vehicles - petrol, diesel or hybrids - in Europe in 2035. We are not just asking you, Minister; you, your Government and the bureaucrats are being asked by hundreds of thousands of workers in the Spanish car industry; thousands of workers in the small and medium-sized industries and self-employed in the auxiliary industrial sector of the Spanish car industry; thousands of vehicle carriers; thousands of workers, entrepreneurs and self-employed workers in vehicle workshops, in spare parts. In short, millions of Spaniards and families who are going to be deprived of a good of strict necessity - which is not of luxury - such as the vehicle, which is so necessary for their mobility, but, above all, so essential for their freedom. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, this threat affects a sector which represents no less than the second country which manufactures vehicles throughout Europe, the ninth country in the world; which accounts for 10% of Spain's gross domestic product; which accounts for 18% of Spain's exports; which generates more than half a million jobs between direct and indirect employment. It is a threat that means continuing to deepen the economic and social gap between those living in urban or rural centres, among those who have economic and disadvantaged possibilities, deepening in this terrible situation of depopulation, delocalization and deindustrialization of the Spanish nation. You, Minister, have accepted at once the greatest negationism of reality that means this climate fanaticism of your 2030 Agenda, which is nothing but a tremendous and brazen fraud. Because the alternative - in quotes - that you present is false. The alternative to the current fossil fuel vehicle - diesel, gasoline or hybrid - is not, as much as you engage, the electric vehicle. The electric vehicle is, first of all, of a very high cost of acquisition, which is impossible for the vast majority of Spaniards, and for the vast majority of Europeans. [[Applauds]] The electric vehicle, Minister, as much as you want to deny it, has a very high cost of consumption, because, among other things, it works with electricity; that electricity that comes from thermal power plants, from coal plants, from that energy that you have criminalized, from nuclear energy, also from other types of alternative energy. It involves the consumption of electricity, one of the most expensive energies and of which unfortunately our country has so much external dependence because of its fault, because they did not want us to have our own sources of natural resources. In addition, the electric vehicle, after use, has a high cost of destruction or recycling due to lithium batteries. That alternative is a profound hypocrisy; a hypocrisy that says that we must dismantle our domestic industry to encourage foreign industry, that we must decapitalize, deindustrialize and push to unemployment and misery important sectors of Spain for other countries to make small profits, for example, China. And it turns out that in this hypocrisy, anyone - and there is no need to be a leading scientist - realizes that the greatest restrictions, the greatest prohibitions, the greatest sacrifices are being demanded from the nations that we least pollute, because Spain does not account for 0.8% of the world's pollution, in exchange for favouring countries that account for more than 50 % of the world's pollution, such as China, the United States and India. [[Applauds]] Minister, from time to time politics causes some to have the dubious honor of having taken off the face and having exposed the hypocrisy, the lie and the falsehood in which others like you do politics. I am referring to Commissioner Bretón, who, in a statement of sincerity probably little calculated, but who undoubtedly assumed that he made the most deplorable manifestations of colonialist and supremacist totalitarianism, dared to say at a conference in Spain: Do not worry, that I have already told the manufacturers, that they will not stop manufacturing combustion vehicles because, although they cannot sell them in Europe, we have a wide market in Africa to sell it to Africans. That is to say, what you do not want, because you say that it pollutes and harms the environment in Europe, that it is eaten by the blacks of Africa. [[Applauds]] What contempt, what hypocrisy and falsehood! This commissioner added: "There are more than three billion Africans and we are not going to give the market to the Chinese. Minister, you don't have to go too far, you've had it in your own ministry and, if not, why did you cease the Secretary General of Industry and Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Mr. Blanco Díaz? Because of their stupendous and stupendous failure of PERTE VEC, that plan with which they intended to promote the electric car. By the way, Mr. Blanco Díaz is rewarded, after his marked failure in his ministry, by the recent appointment of him as Renfe's president. It must be to replace another failure, who was the former president of Renfe, who made the trains so large that they did not fit through the tunnels of Asturias or Cantabria. [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, the alternative of VOX - which does not alter power, as some people claim - says that, in the face of the challenge of technologies, the first thing to do is to consult the Spaniards and ask them whether or not we want to prospect for and exploit our own natural resources. In short, unlike what you are doing, here I am going to give Commissioner Breton the reason when he said: Democracies have decided to ban the vehicle in 2035. I don't know what democracies, because I don't know who they asked or who voted for it. The second issue we have proposed since VOX is that changes must always be made progressively in accordance with technological advances. And, look, there are alternatives to destroying national industry, but it must be done progressively, for example, by betting on hydrogen, Euro 6 diesel vehicles or any other solution that scientists bring us as economically viable, environmentally sustainable and that is better than what we have, because, so far - I repeat - you have only done to ban, ban and ruin sectors, but you have not been able to bet on energies that really are applicable with greater efficiency and lower energy and environmental costs. In addition, VOX's alternative says that we must have courage; courage as other countries have had - Italy, Portugal, Bulgaria or Romania - to question those dogmas of climate fanaticism, to tell the bureaucrats of Europe that they will not teach us to take care of our planet and our territory, because we are the biggest stakeholders, but it cannot be at the cost of misery, hunger and unemployment and for the benefit of other foreign countries. [[Applauds]] In short, VOX's alternative, minister, speaks of concepts that are not in her vocabulary, that do not understand them and that despise them. They do not understand what it means to talk about national sovereignty, energy sovereignty, industrial sovereignty, because, in the face of external dependence, in the face of ruin, there is an alternative. Ours, Minister, is the total battle for freedom and sovereignty, that battle of the vast majority of Spaniards against the suicide fraud of the oligarchs, the multinationals and you, the 'pijoprogres'. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u149	Thank you. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u150	Thank you very much, President. Mr Ortega, I will answer your question by sharing a data that is worrying. According to the European Environment Agency, some 300 000 people per year die prematurely in the European Union due to exposure to air pollution, in particular to fine particles. More than half of these premature deaths could be avoided if the Member States of the European Union reduced their levels to the values set out in the World Health Organization guidelines. Because yes, Mr Ortega, pollution has a high cost of loss of life and it also has a high health expenditure. Health problems and premature deaths not only affect people directly, but also their family members, friends or health personnel responsible for the care of these patients. Each premature death is equivalent to the loss of a family member; each day of illness is a day off from school or work, as well as a day of care or treatment for caregivers. Human suffering and the economic costs of premature deaths and diseases are, Your Honor, a heavy burden for people, families and societies alike. The COVID-19 pandemic has demonstrated our degree of vulnerability to large-scale health crises; and environmental pollution, Your Honor, is an equally widespread but slower-propagating health crisis. You and your group are climate-change negators and are, as has been well demonstrated, against European rules to decarbonise our car fleet. They are therefore not concerned about the consequences of environmental pollution on our health and on our quality of life. On the other hand, the priority of the Government, Your Honor, is that the Spanish have a healthier life. Every action, every investment aimed at reducing pollution will improve the health of everyone and also the health of our environment; and this, Your Honor, is compatible with developing a genuine industrial policy so that our industry, also the automotive industry, is more sustainable and competitive. The automotive sector itself is committed to decarbonisation because they want to be part of the solution. There is a time horizon that all actors know: in 2035 it will be forbidden to sell combustion cars. If we are to be competitive, we must take the necessary measures now and not be backward or outdated, as you claim, which would undoubtedly have a very negative impact in terms of employment and industrial capacity in Spain. I would remind you that 90% of the cars produced in Spain are sold outside, mainly in the European Union. Do you want to bring the ruin to the Spanish car plants for not having adapted or for not having transformed to produce electric vehicles? You're talking about a ruin government. Undoubtedly, its climate negationism is the biggest ruin that Spain can have if we do not address this challenge. Your Honor, reindustrialization is a priority on our agenda. We are carrying out a very ambitious plan to lead a change towards sustainable and autonomous mobility, putting the citizen at the centre, a change that takes place under complex circumstances; we cannot forget the impact of the pandemic and the supply problems that exist in our raw materials semiconductor access factories or the impact also of the rise in energy prices driven by the war in Ukraine. But, Your Honor, every crisis brings opportunities and European funds are enabling us to implement the most ambitious plan that this government is addressing with the car industry through the PERTE of the electric and connected vehicle. We are investing in the value chain of the automotive industry, talking about the future and generating a more competitive industry that can benefit from decarbonisation in a robust way. Spain has to position itself - we are on the road - as a global platform in the production of vehicles with zero CO2 emissions and also in the manufacture of components to develop the entire value chain, both in the field of batteries and renewable hydrogen. Your Honor, we have an opportunity to invest in our industrial and technological autonomy, in line with the European framework. PART VEC integrates measures that are transformative of the impulse of the industrial value chain, incorporating collaboration with companies and contributing to the generation of synergies and knowledge, with integrated and effective solutions. We are encouraging the development of smart vehicles that are an instrument to improve our mobility, to interact also with the energy system, with a circular economy approach and manufacturing as sustainable as possible. As you know, in the first call we have already approved ten tractor projects with a public investment that is historic, Your Honor, 800 million euros. Over the past few years, the Government has been decisively pushing this transition towards the decarbonization of our transport economy, working towards sustainable and modernized mobility, where we may or may not agree with its positions, but, as I say, this Government is working to move forward; moving forward in the future of automotive by addressing challenges such as electrification, connectivity, autonomous vehicle and new concepts of mobility. And, yes, there is a joint agreement at European level with a common approach: that Europe continues to be a leading sector in the automotive industry and a competitive sector vis-à-vis other competitors, such as China, the United States or third countries. The momentum we are making in the electrification of transport and in the production of batteries is particularly relevant as a key point for this electrification. Of the ten tractor projects that we have financed, one of them, as you know, will allow us to have the first giga factory in Spain at the hand of the Volkswagen Group in the city of Sagunto Also, the consortium formed by Envision and Acciona has announced the construction of a second gigafactory in Navalmoral de la Mata.Therefore, Your Honor, we are writing the history, the promising history of the future of our automotive industry. [[Valencia]] [[Extreme]] We are, as you have said, the second manufacturer of vehicles in Europe and we want to remain not only the second, but the first manufacturer of electrified vehicles in Europe. That is the challenge and, as I say, we are on the right track. I announce that in the year 2023 we will strengthen support for the electrification of our car fleet. We are currently designing the second call to support the electrification of the value chains of our entire automotive industry, with significant improvements both in terms of time and in strengthening the investment projects that will be able to be financed, and we are doing so by the industry, Your Honor, and counting on the workers, because all the sectors represented in the Automotive Bureau are represented and also the main unions that support the industry. The ban on the sale of combustion vehicles is set at 2035. You were talking about an orderly transition. If 2035 is not an orderly transition, I do not understand very well what the criticism you pose, because there is enough time to make this transition and for the citizens as a whole to be able to access more sustainable cars, to that electric vehicle which, as you rightly point out, is today a very expensive vehicle, but I assure you that with the democratization that is going to happen in our car plants, with the increasing production of electric cars in our country, there will undoubtedly be, as has been the case in the past, a reduction in access to these electric cars. Therefore, I assure you that there will be no problem in the year 2035 so that we can all access, at affordable prices, cars with better technologies. Your Honor, you don't have to be afraid of transformations. Your group clearly sees a Spain in black and white, a Spain in which progress is a problem for you. Instead, in the Government of Spain we work to advance and transform, to face the challenges of mobility, offering solutions also to make these cars accessible to citizens. To this end, we have mobilised the greatest investment in history through the MOVES III Plan, with more than EUR 626 million, which is currently benefiting more than 50,000 users of electrified vehicles and which, no doubt, throughout these years of transition to the electric vehicle will allow access - I insist, at affordable prices - to the whole of Spanish citizenship, because this is what we are talking about, Your Honor. Faced with the policies of the past, in the face of climate negationism, we are committed to health, but also in coherence with an industry, with an industrial and energy autonomy in which Spain can be a leader and, of course, the government will find it working, investing in industry and recovering, without a doubt, so many jobs lost that we have been able to see in these years. Speaking of the fear that you generate in relation to industry, of a government that is undoubtedly doing what is protecting the industry - and with this I conclude - I want to refer, Your Honor, to the great achievement that we have achieved among all, with a very important crisis that took place in Castile and León, where you now govern in coalition with the People's Party, a crisis in the company Siro, which has meant the maintenance of more than 1700 jobs. In that crisis, the Government of the Junta de Castilla y León was absent, as they always are, ladies and gentlemen, because you do not defend industry. They have just removed the mediation body in Castile and León, they have just halved the subsidies so that trade unions and employers can sign the agreements. You defend that Spain in black and white, which we will certainly fight, because Spain clearly has to be green, it has to be digital, but it also has to have the best quality of life for Spanish and Spanish. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u152	Thank you very much. Minister, you're talking about death, and then we send her to Africa, right? This is to say that we Europeans are very concerned, but we can sell cars to Africans, and if that makes them die, right? [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, there is nothing more at risk than the lives and health of people to condemn themselves to unemployment and misery because, among other reasons - and this is not political opinion, this is accredited by medical science - when there is unemployment and misery the first thing that falls are the good eating habits, which carry with them, unfortunately, worsening health. And where there is unemployment and misery there is also a lack of health and therefore of health care, so ruining an entire sector of our industry and sending hundreds of thousands of workers to unemployment and misery causes serious damage to the physical and mental health of workers and entrepreneurs. [[Applauds]] You say that the Europeans have been asked. I do not think you have spoken to the associations of manufacturers of components, of workshops, of transporters, or of consumer associations. The most you will have done, surely, is to talk to those unions of the shellfish, who represent no one and who live on the subsidies that you give them. [[Applauds]] You have spoken, Madam Minister - and you repeat it in all your speeches, it doesn't matter what we are talking about, but in this precisely it comes to the hair - of the circular economy, and look, there is nothing that generates more economy than letting the vehicles circulate, that the cars roll and that can continue to move the engine of our economy. [[Applauds]] Minister, when you talk about tractor plans, there is nothing that generates more wealth than letting our tractors continue to pray and harvest our fields, even though they work on diesel. [[applause]] Because, do you know, Minister, that the tractors run on diesel? So that then the vice president can go buy at the market so cheap and tell us that inflation has not risen. And, by the way, when they refer to us as the most negativists, there is nothing more negativist than denying bread and salt to the workers of the Spanish automotive industry. [[Applauds]] Minister, now we understand why Sánchez, a liberticide, who hates any symptom of freedom, has chosen you as a candidate for Madrid. Of course, you have chosen it because you also hate the freedom of the Madridns, hates that we can move freely in our car; and in that, look, you will have a good ally, Mr Almeida, who is your best student in applying the 2030 policies, the advanced student who has closed Madrid to hundreds of thousands... Don't tell me you don't, Congresswoman, I tell you-forgive me, Minister, I address a moment to the deputy who says no -, the mobility ordinance has forbidden you to enter hundreds of thousands of vehicles. [[applause.- Rumours]] [[Mrs. Leal Fernández makes negative signs]] Maybe not to you, because you will have official car or electric car, but to most vehicles, yes, to most Madrid vehicles, yes. [[Laughter.-Applause.]] [[Applauds]] Madam Minister, leave Madrid alone, let us circulate, that we love to enter Madrid, move along our streets and do it responsibly, and not all Madridns are lucky that you might have an official car an electric car. Let us circulate because, look, there are lots of small transports, small diesel vans that need to earn bread every day, small transporters moving, small self-employed, small entrepreneurs who want to continue living in Madrid in freedom. Minister, end of story. Faced with this slogan which repeats that those of VOX want a Spain in black and white, look, those of VOX want a green Spain, like our party, where hope and freedom prevails, but above all, in front of Spain of negationism, in front of its Spain and its catastrophic Europe climateally speaking, we want a red and bald Spain. [[Several Members: Good!]] [[applause]] Thank you. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u153	To conclude the debate, on behalf of the Government, I have the floor of the Minister for Industry, Trade and Tourism.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u154	Thank you very much, President. Mr Ortega, you have spoken of tractors ploughing and harvesting the fields. I do not know if you have had the opportunity to take a tractor, to plow and to harvest, but I tell you that I do, because I am the daughter of a farmer and, therefore, I have had to earn my living studying with scholarships, those scholarships that the Council of Ministers, my Government, approved yesterday, will benefit a million young people who will be able to access education and be here defending freedom, that social elevator that the Socialist Party flags. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] You talk about unemployment and misery. You have a crystal ball in which every day you climb to this rostrum talk about the government of ruin, unemployment and misery. But, Your Honor, we are the government that, despite the pandemic, despite the war, more employment has created, and has done so especially in two vulnerable groups, young people and women, Your Honor, those women who today have a little more fear, especially those of my land, those of Castile and León, because you with these anti-abortion protocols are leading us to frustration. He was talking about freedom. Freedom is demonstrated by the laws that the Socialist Party is passing in this Congress, Your Honor; freedom to abort, freedom to have a decent salary, freedom to study, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] That's feminism, that's what we do here every day, this is the freedom we practice. I want to talk and look to the future, that future that will undoubtedly be green and digital, or, Your Honor, it won't. You say that I have no contact with the manufacturers, with the dealers, with the suppliers. Yesterday - I do not know if he had the opportunity to participate in a forum called La Mobilidad de tod@s -, we were able to see how the whole value chain of the car industry of our country is transforming that industry, this future industry that yes, will be green, because we certainly have to bet on electrification; because yes, Your Honor, the environment is a priority, but it is - I have said it - because it certainly has an impact on our health and, therefore, if we want to prevent those premature deaths, we have to improve the quality of our air, something that the Madrid City Council, the government team, certainly does not do. You have criticized Mr Almeida, I am certainly also very critical with Mr Almeida, and of course Mr Almeida does not protect the environment, we have just seen him the other day - I do not know if you had the occasion the other day to be in that neighborhood demonstration - where we have been defending the no at the cutting of more than 1120 trees which, if we do not avoid it, the Community of Madrid, with a new investment in line 11 of the metro, is going to make us lose. You were talking about individual transportation. We are not against individual transport, but we clearly give priority to public transport, and that is why we have put the freeness of the surroundings, the freeness of the Avant, we have reduced the cost of the transport charge so that there is a mobility accessible to most citizens, because not everyone has the capacity to move by individual car and there are more and more users of public transport, Your Honor. By the way, you should know, because Madrid City Council has important competences through the Madrid Regional Transport Consortium to facilitate mobility within this city. I see that you, despite taking a long time in the city hall, have hardly contributed innovative policies to this wonderful city. I, as a candidate for the Socialist Party, do want to change Madrid. [[Rumors]] I want Madrid to be green, yes, but I want Madrid to be, above all, a city with quality of life, because now what we have is a ruin of a People's Party that embraces VOX to privatize public services; you should know that, because that does impoverish the people of Madrid. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u155	Thank you very much, Minister. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference, so that the Government will report on the latest agreements and commitments acquired by Spain within the European Union and the organization of the North Atlantic Treaty in relation to military support The Ukrania. [[File number 172/000275]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u156	Urgent interpellation by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, for the Government to report on the latest agreements adopted and commitments made by Spain within the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization regarding military support to Ukraine. For your defence, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor. [[The lady]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u157	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Minister. I would like to begin by expressing our appreciation for the work done... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u158	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u159	...for our Armed Forces in all their tasks, both within our borders and abroad. In particular, I want to move, Minister, the pride for the image projected by our Armed Forces, as well as by the other participating organizations... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u160	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u161	... as firefighters and rescue organizations, during the support provided to Turkey in the face of the unfortunate events resulting from the earthquake of 13 February, which so far has resulted in 47,000 fatalities. And he also expressed the feeling, as you did publicly, that he was unable to extend that aid to neighbouring Syria, because of the internal conflict that the country has been experiencing since 2011. [[Applauds]] Today, however, we are going to talk about another conflict, Minister, about the conflict that most directly and indirectly affects our nation, as well as the whole of the nations we are part of within the framework of the United Nations Organization, the OSCE, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Union. Within two days the brutal, unjustifiable and unjustifiable increase of aggression by the regime of Vladimir Putin against Ukraine is celebrated. I say the increase because the beginning of hostilities and aggressions took place long before, with the annexation of Crimea in 2014 and the beginning since then of the low-profile hostilities that maintained instability in the regions of eastern Ukraine during those eight years. But on February 24, 2022, just a year ago, at five o'clock in the morning, the brutal offensive of a general and conventional nature was unleashed by the Russian Federation, putting all available resources to achieve its objectives, an operation that the disinformation strategists of the Kremlin cynically called a special military operation. The initial estimates, difficult to confirm as in almost all wars, tell us of a figure of around a quarter of a million deaths suffered by both sides, as well as of more than 8 million refugees, that is, only Ukrainians, as a result of this period of irrationality and barbarism. We must all acknowledge that it has been very hard for us to accept that this could happen in 2022 in Europe and that, from the outset, we have been towing events. First of all, in view of the expectation of seeing how the rest of the nations in our environment were acting, to finally end up recognizing everyone today that we must be firmly committed to two substantial principles: the cohesion of our alliances and the prevention of an unintended escalation and that, if it occurs, only the criminal Putin regime can be blamed. We share with the Socialist Party and the Government of Spain, or, rather, with the socialist side of it, at least nominally, the need to consider defence policy as a State policy. And I say it nominally because we are not sure what a state policy means in the same way. We often have the impression that when the government or the socialist side of it speaks of State policy, they refer to the need for unwavering adherence to the decisions that the government or the socialist side of it takes in absolute solitude, not to mention the opinion of the rest of the society for which it works, represented by the Members of this House. Our perspective, on the contrary, is that the so-called State policies, which involve very long-term commitments, which normally go beyond a legislature, must agree on an approximation of perceptions from very different perspectives of the Spanish national reality. A matter like this involves the pronouncement of the whole of society, for which the Government should have the support of as many parliamentary groups as possible and take into account the contributions of all of them, including those of the opposition. It would be necessary for the Government to share with the rest of the political forces, with parliamentary representation, the actions it undertakes and which in one way or another compromises the situation of Spain at the international concert in the medium and long term. In this respect, I would like to ask you, Minister, to consider your refusal to reject President Feijóo's visit to our soldiers in Latvia. You know it's a mistake. Various and different excuses have been argued for this, such as operational activity or party use. The second is the rejection and the first we are prepared to talk about any opportunity to achieve it. This visit was requested on the basis of a previous visit to the Latvian Prime Minister. It is not understood by our allies that a leader of the main opposition party is denied this possibility. As far as communication with Parliament is concerned, the situation in Spain is very different from what is happening in the rest of the countries in our environment, where governments normally relate to parliaments. A Statistics published this morning by the Kiel Analysis Institute shows that Spain, of the 41 donor countries, occupies the number 18 - a few days ago it occupied the 22 - in terms of the amounts of donations, but it occupies the number 40 - of the 41 - in terms of transparency. It is only less transparent than our Government with its Parliament, the Government of Portugal. We have seen Chancellor Scholz bring the decision to Parliament to provide combat cars for Ukraine after a period of deep reflection, as the adoption of this decision could lead to an escalation that, as I have said, no one wants. There is a great deal of argument, Madam Minister, that we must act with discretion for security reasons. The People's Party shares that principle, but discretion cannot represent opacity. What really compromises security is not to inform the opposition of what the Government is doing, not to do it can even be a sign of low democratic quality, what really compromises security is to make public through the media what is being done and, what is even worse, by what means and by what routes, by what means, as the President of the Government did at the European Council on 21 April, when he informed through the media the name of the vessel in which the resources provided by Spain were transferred and the ports to which he was sailing from a certain country in Eastern Europe bordering Ukraine. During the management of this crisis, it seems as if it was more important for the Government to inform the media than Parliament. Before yesterday, a supporter of the Government - he interpreted as a staunch supporter of the Government - said that if the People's Party was so interested in knowing what was being sent to Ukraine, that why it did not read the press, and it said it without irony, it was absolutely convinced that the source from which a parliamentary group of our Congress should drink is the press. This cannot continue to be the case, Minister; the Government has a democratic obligation to report in much more detail to parliamentary groups representing citizens rather than the media. Here, for whatever reason, the priorities are the reverse. We cannot continue to learn from the press and our allies about what our Government decides and communicates at the summits or exchange with other authorities in other countries at the summits, after which the ministers of these countries report that Spain is going to contribute a Nasams battery to Estonia from next April. We want to find out for you, Minister, and we want you to bring him to this Congress. It means a new deployment and, in accordance with Law 5/2005, should be submitted to this Congress. We have been extraordinarily flexible during the year we have been in crisis. You have initially appeared in March to explain the operations abroad and, finally, in December, where you touched some nuances of this contribution, but without going into details. This must change a lot. We believe that the support for Ukraine by our country and all the allied countries, both in the European Union and in NATO, as expressed by the Secretary-General of NATO and the high representative of the European Union for foreign security and defence policy, is absolutely necessary and, in view of the forthcoming foreseeable Russian offensive in the short term, must be significantly increased. A success of Putin's aggressive policy is something we cannot afford. If it succeeds, it means a severe challenge to the security of the world as we know it and the values we defend. It is often said, and we believe it is true, that Ukraine is defending the sovereignty and territorial integrity of its country, but at the same time it is also defending the set of values represented by our democratic system of understanding reality. Therefore, we believe that support for the Ukrainian Government is an effort to which we must continue to contribute, but we also strongly believe, Minister, for reasons of institutional loyalty and democratic quality, that we must keep this Congress informed of the concrete reality of the real efforts we have been making. Since the beginning of the Russian aggression and the subsequent support of the allies to Ukraine to ensure their defence, we have made a long journey of successive approaches. We began by talking about defensive or offensive material rather than lethal or non-lethal; we left to the dawn of social media speculators the fact that we had provided low-quality light machine guns, without any clarification from the government; some social media users, for whatever reason, assumed that the machine guns delivered were the old 5.56 light machine guns, negatively valued by members of the Armed Forces.. [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u162	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u163	...who had the opportunity to employ them in their day. There was never any clarification on the part of the Government. The lack of transparency also leaves the ground for potential manipulators who, in view of the lack of knowledge of what interests, affect the conscience of Spanish society, ensuring that what we do is fuel a conflict between the United States and Russia, alien to our interests, maliciously obviating the fact of the violation of international law by Russia, as well as the unqualified suffering of the Ukrainian people, not to mention the possible war crimes at the gates of our countries or the obligations arising from our international defensive commitments, both in NATO and in the European Union. All these prejudices that are introduced into the public image of our defence in our nation would be diminished by a better policy of communication with the rest of the political forces and pedagogy with the generality of the Spanish population. We talk a lot about defence awareness and when we are presented with the opportunity, in the face of a really demanding and demanding situation, we leave the ground free and give wings to the detractors of defense. The challenges we face, Minister, require a shared effort by the whole of society, for which a radical change in the information policy for these purposes by the Government is essential, especially as far as this Parliament is concerned. We know, however, that the main obstacle you and the socialist side of the Government face is that this government, called a coalition, is in fact a government of permanent implosion and disunity in almost all matters, also regrettably in this one, which is a State policy. Count on us, Minister, with our support and support, but keep us informed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u164	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu. I now have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u165	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to join in the recognition and congratulations that you have given to our Armed Forces in recent missions, both in support of Turkey and Chile, as well as the 3,000 men and women who are currently on military missions working for peace in the world, as the 120,000 men and women of the Armed Forces who here in Spain are giving us an example of values, of commitment, of freedom, of security, of effectiveness and of professionalism every day. You know them well for your previous life and you know that both for you and for me are a true pride. Secondly, as I always do in all my public statements and did in my recent appearance on 21 December before the Congressional Defence Commission, I would like to pay my sincere tribute and tribute to the citizens of Ukraine. We're with them. His pain is our pain. Their struggle is our struggle. They are giving an example of heroism, courage and courage. Believe me, I've had the opportunity to visit you in Odesa. I visited them here, when they were doing the training work, and also in military hospitals, with terrible amputations. They always give us that example, that example of how they defend their country; but it is much more than their country, they are a community of values, freedom and democracy. Therefore, this Government is very proud to support Ukraine and the citizens of Ukraine, and we will do so as long as necessary. That must be made quite clear. For this war, for this terrible and cruel war, there is only one responsible - let us be clear - and that only responsible is Putin, who is violating the minimum norms of the right to war, slaughtering the civilian population. He's the only one responsible. We saw it yesterday and we saw it this morning in that tremendous speech, lacking the slightest empathy and above all, and above all, which is a shame for those of us who believe in peace and human rights. Putin thought that the war, the invasion - as he said - would last a week. He was cheating on us all. He said there was not going to be such an invasion, that it was a speculation of the Western world. We've seen it: this terrible war. We've been a year, unfortunately, a year of this war. Every effort was made to ensure that the invasion did not occur. Some speak of diplomatic channels. Of course, diplomatic channels were tried to the end; they were tried to the end. Despite these diplomatic channels, which have always been tried with Putin, he has continued in this war by slaughtering children, women, vulnerable people and bombing the civilian population. Those of us who believe in peace, and because we believe in peace with capital, we are working in coordination, as Spain does, as the Government of Spain does, but much more than the Government of Spain, as the whole of Spanish society does, which is with Ukrainian citizens because we firmly believe in peace. That is why we are working in coordination with our allies, both within NATO and within the European Union. Look, one of Putin's great defeats is precisely that the unity of the partners of the European Union and NATO has been found, precisely because we believe in peace, freedom and human rights. Spain, in that commitment as a serious, reliable and responsible ally that it is, will always be working. I am sure that it has the support of Spanish society and I am sure - because I believe in state policies and because we believe in state policies - that we will have all the groups that are firmly committed to peace. As a serious and reliable ally that it is, from the beginning Spain has collaborated with NATO in the efforts to deter and protect the eastern flank. You have already heard me in the Defence Committee all the efforts that Spain has been making, with a deployment in Latvia that started at the beginning of last year with 300 soldiers - at the moment there are 606 - and a deployment of the Nasams battery, which is in northern Latvia at the request of Estonia, and because you have asked us also SACEUR for four months. We will deploy an anti-aircraft defence unit in Estonia for four months, which has the support of the agreement of the Council of Ministers. It has been an express request from the Government of Estonia, and precisely because of the prestige that the Spanish Armed Forces have in a work, I insist, of deterrence, of deterrence, we will bring that battery for four months. Along with this, it will be a battery that will be at the base of Estonia itself, in Ämari, and that will have 80 soldiers. Along with this, you know well that we have deployed in the naval forces in the provision of escort services in the SNMG2, with the frigates Blas de Lezo, Admiral Juan de Borbón and Christopher Columbus, in addition to the Cantabria; and in the groups of fighters with the BAM Rayo, Meteoro and Sella. In 2023 we will continue with this naval deployment. This very morning I was speaking with the commander of the Alvaro de Bazán - who has integrated himself precisely into the maneuvers in the SNMG1-, and believe me that it is a pride to hear our soldiers how they are defending peace and how they are fully involved in this vision of Spain in the field of NATO. And what about the deployments of the Air Police in the Baltic during the year 2022: in Bulgaria, from 15 February to 31 March; in Lithuania, from 1 April to 31 July; in Estonia - that is why we have been asked for precisely that battery, to complement the deployment of the Air Police in the Baltic - from 25 August to 12 September, and in Romania, where we currently have a radar and eight F18. Go for them all my recognition. In the year 2023 we will continue with this work of protection, deterrence and defense - I insist - of the border populations on the eastern flank. This refers to this deployment within NATO, always under the mandate of the SACEUR authorities, as I said before, as a serious, responsible and reliable ally that we are. As for aid to Ukraine, Spain has turned as a country. This morning he was talking to two people from an NGO who are in Ukraine, who have brought material, and he is proud to know that Spain is at all times helping Ukrainian citizens. In the humanitarian field, Spain has made 17 flights bringing more than 600 vulnerable people here, mainly people with cancer treatments and 58 war wounded, 54 to Zaragoza and 4 to Gómez Ulla. Yesterday exactly 14 people arrived. I express my appreciation and gratitude to all those who work at the Military Hospital of Zaragoza and the Gómez Ulla Hospital, because they are turning on those people who have terrible amputations. At the same time, we are doing training. We have trained more than 800 Ukrainian military personnel in Toledo, Madrid, Zaragoza and Seville. Two days ago another group arrived to be trained in Spain, Toledo and Zaragoza. The training courses that we have given have gone from basic training to courses of operator and maintenance of the battery Aspide, of the shells 105/14 mm, of familiarization with the Hawk system of demining - the mines are causing terrible damage to the population - and also of management of Leopard cars. I can say that on the subject of shipments to Ukraine we have tried to be always cautious. We have always tried to be cautious because shipments are coordinated with other countries. You know - you have said it - that most of the time the cargo is taken to military bases in other countries, which have material belonging to other countries and, therefore, that you have to ask for authorization. So far, thanks to our men from the Air and Space Army, we have carried out 54 transports of various materials to Ukraine; 42 have been aircraft, as I said before, 9 by land and 3 by sea. I will tell you the material that has been sent succinctly, precisely because of the prudence we want to have, because we are not going to give clues to those who are slaughtering the civilian population of Ukraine. We have sent anti-tank weapons, 190 rocket launchers; light weapons and ammunition, machine guns and projectiles; heavy ammunition, 105-mm and 155-mm tank and artillery ammunition; anti-aircraft material, a Spyder battery and more Hawk launcher missiles. We have also sent Mistral missiles, obuses 105/14, a deployable control center for cyber defense operations, 20 TOA vehicles - the APCs you will know well -, 5 naval systems - that you, for your profession, will also know well - and other equipment: 10 light vehicles, 10 heavy, 4 light ambulances, an RG31 ambulance; an armored ambulance donated by Repsol - and I want to show my gratitude to all those who have collaborated with the sending of the electric generators that are so much missing at this time -, 2000 tons of diesel fuel, as well as protective material: 5000 bullet protection helmets, 1784 vests, 1300 coats, 1500 jackets and 77 000 winter equipment. [[applause]] Believe me it was exciting to hear Lieutenant Colonel Yulia Tapaciok, when she came to Toledo and said: Spain, a sunny country, was the first to send us teams for the winter. I think we should be proud. We have sent all kinds of protective material: 800 NBQs, suits, masks, gloves, medicines, food, portable radios and 39 electrogenerators. And yes, I know you're curious about the Leopards, but on this subject we're all going to be very responsible, and I trust in your sense of responsibility. The shipment of the Leopards, as we have already said here, as combat cars, required authorization from a given government, and Spain has always been very careful in this area. What I can tell you is that we are working in absolute coordination with our allies, because it seems essential and fundamental to us. We're talking about peace, about defending human lives. What I can tell you is that we have already had several coordination meetings with Germany and Poland. It should be borne in mind that Spain has Leopard 2A6 vehicles, which are necessary for our national defence, and Leopard 2A4 vehicles; some of the latter were in Zaragoza in a state of disuse, because since 1990 they had not been repaired. You were in the government for almost eight years and you didn't do anything with those cars. But let's not talk about them. I, at this moment, want to say in this Congress that Spain is already repairing, to update them and to be incorporated into those of the rest of the countries, an advanced section of Leopard 2A4. You should know well that there are four plus two, that is, we are repairing at this time six Leopard 2A4 vehicles; six vehicles, I insist, because sometimes by the Leopard terminology people are wrong. At this time they are being repaired to update them because they are necessary...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u166	Minister, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u167	...with the possibility that, if more were needed and our allies asked us, that number could be increased. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u169	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[The Lord]] Firstly, Madam Minister, we have no objection to the support provided by Spain, we just want to be informed. Secondly, I will tell you that the Leopard 2A4 cars have not been in Zaragoza since 1990. I delivered them in 2012, because they were part of my brigade, Extremadura Brigade XI. They were the brigade's equipment, were relieved by the new Leopards, were deposited in Casetas, Zaragoza, in 2012 and, from there, tried to sell. [[Applauds]] Thirdly, we want to know the details of the weaponry. We have deduced from the press that, as the training given to Ukrainians who come here is about the use of 105/14 shells, 105/14 shells have been delivered, but we do not know how many or where they come from. Nor do we know how many Hawk missile launchers are because it is not specified. We know that Ukrainians come to form in the use of Hawk and Aspide launchers, so we deduce that it will be those missiles that have been delivered. As far as the 155 ammo is concerned, we do not know how much ammo we have delivered and we want to know, Minister. We feel it is important to share the effort. We think it is very important to participate in this effort; it seems to be less important to its government partners. You spoke of President Feijóo's allegedly partisan attempt to visit the Spanish soldiers in Latvia, but you did not talk about the obstacles represented by the partners who are part of the Spanish Government. We are talking about cohesion with other countries of the European Union and with other NATO countries when we do not have cohesion within our own government. That's a 'little' problem. I'd like you to answer me in the second round if you're going to reconsider the refusal to President Feijóo so you can visit our soldiers in Adazi. I have been visiting our soldiers in Adazi as a result of belonging to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly; they put it on a program and I visited them. I have visited our soldiers in Lithuania, also in the same forum. I've also been to Wiesbaden, the International Donor Coordination Centre, talking to a colonel. There's no problem talking to our soldiers, quite the opposite. Any opportunity for a Spaniard of any level, especially if he is of a high level, to visit our soldiers, must be promoted, minister, and never obstruct. I would also like to know if you have any prospect of organizing anything so that we can learn more about what I asked you. And I'll tell you one more thing. Are you bringing the new deployment to Congress in Estonia? I am saying this because there is no operation in progress to provide military support to Ukraine. There are permanent naval forces, there are air police in the Baltic, there are many deployments, Latvia's advanced force, and all of these have passed through Congress and have been approved. The deployment of a NASAMS battery in Estonia is not part of any existing device, which, according to Organic Law 5/2005, should pass through Congress. Are you going to take him to Congress or do you take him for granted in the deployment of the country of the north or the country of the south? Finally, it seems to me very important that most political forces are involved in the support of our society, of our nation. You express this splendidly when you say that Spanish society is committed to supporting Ukraine. It would be great if the representatives of Spanish society expressed this collective support to the people of Ukraine and made an express manifestation of it; that is what they urged. Sometimes it gives the impression that there are interpretations that lead to the belief that the Spanish nation belongs to the greater extent to whom every four years it is exercising the task of government and to a lesser extent to Congress. The Spanish nation belongs to all Spanish full-time, there are no cycles of four years of greater or lesser involvement, and the full-time national will materializes in this House. It is important that this House, together with all its representatives, pronounce itself on military support for Ukraine. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u170	Thank you. To conclude the debate, I have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u171	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Your Honor. The shade between Casetas and Zaragoza that you have made is a little surprising to me, because, as far as I know, Casetas is in Zaragoza. [[Mr. Gutiérrez Díaz de Otazu makes negative gestures]] You tell me about your personal experiences and you say that you were not in Zaragoza, that you were... [[Rumors]] In Ukraine people are dying, they are being vilely massacred. The Government of Spain and all of Spain are firmly committed to the citizens of Ukraine and we will continue to do so. We will continue to be for many reasons: because we believe in peace, because we believe in empathy, because we understand that they are in a war in defense not only of their territory, but of their values, of human rights and of democracy, which is so important and necessary. We have been supporting Ukraine since 24 February 2022 and I insist that we are doing so with discretion and prudence. I have given you here a report of everything that has been sent, but I am not going to tell you the exact number because I do not want a person like Putin - who once again threatened the entire international community yesterday in the terms in which he did it, even dropping the possibility of a nuclear threat - to have the slightest information. Since you refer to your professional career, I would have liked to see what information you gave when you had command over troops. We're all gonna be serious about the things we say. This is not a problem of four years or not, it is a problem of ethical sense, responsibility and commitment to peace. I believe that this commitment to peace in Ukraine will always be the Government of Spain. You know, like me, that on December 21 I was explaining in detail everything that was being done in Ukraine - by the way, we ended up very late, at so many at night - so don't say that there is no transparency on this issue. You know that this battery in Estonia is a reinforcement to the mission that there is at this time the Air Police in the Baltic at the request of the Latvian government; it is four months. You better than anyone knows - because you know - that's air defence. It's defense, it's not any kind of offensive material, because it's the Russians who do the offense; and I wouldn't even say Russia or the Russians, Putin does it. So, be quiet. I am proud of our Armed Forces, I am proud of Spain and also of the Ukrainian people. One of the soldiers who came here to receive training told me: I do it for peace and I do it for my children, because I want a fairer society in Ukraine, a better society. I am sure that we share those principles and that no one in Spain has any doubt that the Government will always be with Ukraine, that the Government will always be with peace. There is only one person responsible here, who is Putin, and we will say it with complete force and clarity. In front of Putin, unit, unit without cracks and not a single clue. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u172	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u173	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the need to adopt the necessary legislative amendments to increase compensation for wrongful dismissal in order to achieve a real redress of the worker concerned and a deterrent effect. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u174	Thank you, President. Welcome, Vice President Yolanda Díaz. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting an urgent motion following the inquiry to the Vice-President, Mrs Yolanda Díaz. In this debate we strongly criticise the current legislation allowing unjustified or justified wrongful dismissals with fictitious and therefore unfair causes. It is a law that, in our way of seeing - you know - cannot remain in force for another day. In La interpelación we explain in detail the objective reasons why dismissal in the Kingdom of Spain is free and cheap. In order not to be repetitive, I refer you to the previous speech so that you all have the argument that we defend. In short, today we do not come to discuss dismissals from objective causes or dismissals from organizational causes as a decrease in profits or losses - we will talk about it at another time -; neither will today deal with dismissals from disciplinary causes, because they are not the reason for this motion. This motion focuses exclusively on improper and unjustified dismissals that have, today, a priced and cheap compensation; compensation that is neither dissuasive to employers who make improper use of wrongful dismissal nor compensates for the damage caused to hundreds of thousands of workers who are annually dismissed by the face. I mean literally by the face because that's the case, they just have to consult any labor lawyer. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, as we said the other day, in most countries in our environment an unjustified wrongful dismissal is prohibited. It is forbidden, let it be said, and I appeal to their consciences when they vote. Therefore, Esquerra Republicana proposes to recover in a first phase - I repeat, in a first phase - at least the compensation for wrongful dismissal prior to the last labor reforms, that of 2010 of the PSOE and, above all, that of 2012 of the Popular Party of Mariano Rajoy. These are reforms that were made eleven years ago - eleven years of injustice in our way of view - and reforms that were made without social dialogue; he noted, without social dialogue. That is why we demand that we return to the previous legislation on this particular point - also without social dialogue and, if necessary, without the CEO - in order to start a new social dialogue from a starting point of equality and honesty. Because these reforms of 2010 and 2012 were not the result of the dialogue, they were not. They were made exclusively against the working class and their trade union organizations, which faced three general strikes against the respective governments; three painful general strikes that we all remember. Well, in the face of this unsustainable situation of wrongful and unjust dismissal, Esquerra follows the wake of the UGT first and of the Workers' Commissions later, which have made collective claims to the European Committee of Social Rights. These international demands refer to the total inconsistency between the current Spanish regulation and the international treaties signed by its governments. The current legal framework runs counter - attention - to ILO Convention 158, Article 30 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and Article 24 of the revised European Social Charter, which is ratified in its entirety by the Kingdom of Spain and which states that unjustified dismissal must lead to readmission and, if not, to a sufficiently dissuasive and compensatory measure in proportion to the damage caused. Even the courts of the Spanish State itself are beginning to follow this line. For example, without going any further, just 20 days ago the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia handed down a judgment imposing compensation for wrongful dismissal equivalent to forty-eight days' wages with a maximum of thirty-six monthly payments. The court argued that, if the provisions of Spanish law had been applied, it would have proved to be an insufficient, insignificant compensation, I quote, and that it would not have a deterrent effect on the company's dismissal in order to compensate for the total damage caused. What more do you need, ladies and gentlemen, besides all these procedures, laws and court rulings? Don't be ridiculous. The potential for successful union demand is very high. The European Committee of Social Rights itself has accepted this request. Accordingly, compensation should be fixed for wrongful dismissal not less than forty-five days per year worked up to a maximum of forty-two monthly instalments. We know that this is not the solution, but only from there will we be able to implement, if possible with social and parliamentary dialogue, Article 24 of the European Social Charter. We know that this is where we have to get to, what would be modern and restorative legislation. We know, but we think it can be done in two phases. That is to say, what we intend is that if a person unjustly loses his or her work - I repeat, unjustly, his or her work - the first option is the recovery of the job and not its exchange for a monetary equivalent difficult to calculate, and that the compensations are analysed on a case-by-case basis in order to be effectively compensatory. It makes every sense to do so, because the situation of a great executive of a banking entity at the age of forty is not the same as that of a worker of an assembly chain at the age of fifty-five or sixty. It's not the same to condemn my neighborhood carpentry as it is Amazon or Ikea, it's not the same. The repair we are trying to get with this motion can be done quickly. I am thinking of the royal decree law by which a few months ago domestic workers were granted the right to unemployment to conform to international guidelines. It's a very similar case. Why can't we do the same with the price of improper, unjustified and therefore unjust dismissals? We don't talk about the others. And, from this restoration, we want to open a social dialogue to bring us into line with European legislation. It can be done. Ladies and gentlemen, above all from the left, for a decade many of us, from very different positions, have found ourselves behind banners claiming things like those now proposed in this motion. Can we agree today, at least, that the price of dismissal has to go back to where it was before the People's Party hit? Can we agree minimally and say that we started again from scratch, from before what was done without social dialogue, from before what has been happening for eleven years, causing thousands of layoffs in a way...? I prefer not to qualify, because it is really very hard for those who suffer from it. And then, quietly, we have a new social dialogue and we are moving towards the legislation that marks very well Article 24 of the revised European Social Charter. Let us hope that the motion will continue and, if not, we will continue to fight for it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u175	Thank you very much. In defence of the amendments made by your groups, Mrs Muñoz Vidal is speaking on behalf of the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u176	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are talking about compensation for wrongful dismissal in Spain, a subject which we too are concerned about and which we have been questioning for years. But this is as far as the Liberals can agree with the Squerra motion. And I say so here because the diagnosis made by Esquerra and the solution offered in this motion suffer from the worst vices of populism. I would recommend waiting for the opinion of the European Committee of Social Rights, because the solutions it brings in this motion would only exacerbate the problem, increase legal uncertainty and something undesirable, such as further judicializing conflicts. What you bring here today, Mr Salvador, is neither compensatory nor dissuasive, and let me tell you that you have only embarked on this task to compete with Podemos and the PSOE in a return to the past to see who is most nostalgic of failed work models. Instead of drafting a motion with the reforms that Spain needs and that you should flag if you are really progressive, you are now proposing two things that are a return to the past. Let us see the first proposal made by this motion: to return to compensation of forty-five days' wages per year worked in cases of wrongful dismissal. You complain that the fixed compensation provided for in the Workers' Statute for those who have been in a company for a short time is neither compensatory nor disincentive to dismissal. As a solution they propose the return to the previous regime of forty-five days. Let's do an exercise. Put yourself in that you're entrepreneurs, let's make that effort, okay? Now, as entrepreneurs, you should know that at the same level of productivity employment adjustments tend to fall on those who will receive less compensation for dismissal. You, as entrepreneurs, who will be fired? The worker with the highest compensation or the lowest compensation? Following the incongruous reasoning shown here in the motion, it could be the case that they chose to fire the most productive worker for the simple fact that their compensation is cheaper, that is, for not having accumulated as many rights or seniority as others. Who are these? For the younger ones, those who chain precarious and temporary contracts. In short, those to whom they claim to defend. Tell us, is that the failed model of bipartisanism to which you want to return? Do you want to go back to the 2005 market, to that of more than twelve years ago? Let us now look at the second proposal of his motion: to establish an indemnity regime that addresses the personal circumstances and the moral damage or loss of profits of the victim of the dismissal. If the first thing was to turn the labour market into a crusher of young workers, what they propose in this second measure, as drafted, is absolutely nonsense, because if there is something advantageous about dismissal, it is to give certainty to both the worker and the company. And I am not saying that it is okay, I am not saying that it should not be changed, as I said at the beginning of my speech, because we agree that we should perhaps adapt it and wait for the Working Rights Committee to speak. But imagine again with this second proposal that you are entrepreneurs and that you have to hire two people. On the one hand, they have a young man with no physical limitations, no disability and no children in charge of them, and on the other hand, they have a woman with partial disability and three children. You guys, who would I hire as entrepreneurs? I say again what I was saying: you again want to defend expelling the most vulnerable from the market. I come back to the only point where we agree with you, and it is to acknowledge that the scheme of compensations in our labour system is not the right one, and surely so will the European Committee. When the labor reform was brought in, it was one of the things we criticized...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u177	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u178	... because it came - yes, it ended - incomplete. It is necessary to continue to transform our labour market and to establish that part of the compensation becomes an individual in-depth contribution, the call, and detested by you, Austrian backpack. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u179	Thank you. Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, go ahead - we insist once again - the unalterable position of VOX in the defence of workers and that the fruit of their work be compensated for what is just and just. We have also repeated that this Government alone and poorly manages unemployment and does not facilitate the creation of quality jobs, nor, therefore, the viability of companies, nor, thus, the promotion of wealth and prosperity. That is why we understand intimately the right and protection of workers with the defence of companies and their viability, and for this we have insisted that the State must participate to this end from subsidiarity and solidarity. Indirectly, according to the principle of subsidiarity, conditions must be created for the free exercise of business and, therefore, economic activity, geared towards full employment and caring for the sources of wealth, which are enterprises. Directly, in accordance with the principle of solidarity, it is necessary to set, in defence of workers, particularly the weakest, reasonable limits to the contractual autonomy of the parties, ensuring decent work and fair compensation in the event of dismissals without cause. [[Applauds]] However, this debate does not take place in abstract form, but takes place in Spain, not at any time, but in Spain in 2023, with the government of the Socialist Party and the United Podemos and the help of the Republican Left. And it is a good motion, but we need to analyse the situation and the evolution. The situation in Spain at the moment is that of leading Europe's highest unemployment rate, more than double the Union average. It is the country that most intensely destroys employment during times of recession. It is the country that in times of good times has not ceased to have the employment rate at unabsorbed levels. And in Spain, which fulfils the criterion required by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, when a contractual resolution is produced without cause, the right to compensation is created with the highest cost of dismissal in Europe, when it is an indefinite contract, with more than twenty years worked. Situation and evolution. In deseasonalized terms, the EPA shows two consecutive quarters of job destruction, something we haven't seen since the years of the great recession. And, month by month, since April, when the measures of the government's labour reform come into force, we have seen a deterioration in job creation: the redundancies of the indefinite increase by 68 % and the indefinite increase, yes, but those who sign more than one contract a month, which shoot at 1250 %, whose redundancies are free of charge. [[Applauds]] It is therefore urgent that there be more and better jobs in Spain, and that protecting businesses is one of the qualities of this quality of employment. Hence any greater protection of employment needs treatment also for those who believe it. Spanish SMEs already pay 8 points more in social contributions than the EU average. And any change that goes to the benefit of those who lose their jobs, but which entails new costs, which cannot be absorbed at this time, must be compensated for by the unnecessary reduction of the State's expenditure, the reduction of predatory taxation by the largest commissioner, who is the State, through the Tax Agency, and compensate the companies for the greater compensation for unjustified redundancies, if appropriate, not to involve further disruptions and cost increases to SMEs. [[applause]] Mr Salvador, it is a well-bred motion, I must congratulate you, and controversial, but it does not cease to be a song in the sun, as the Member of Parliament for Citizens has said, because we are awaiting the decision of the European Committee on Social Rights, as set out in her own motion. So it will be possible to wait. In line with our position, the worker must always - I repeat: always - receive what is fair and just and guarantee companies the defense of their viability so that it can be fulfilled precisely with the first thing. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u181	Thank you. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. The questioning made last week by the Republican Parliamentary Group turned out to be a classic of the legislature. Instead of exposing and highlighting some of the many improved issues in the management of the Government in labour matters, the initiative served as an argument to whip up the People's Party, especially in light of the 2012 reform, which was approved by Mr. Rajoy's Government and which Forum supported with its vote in its proceedings in the General Courts. If the interpellation was a pretext for shaking the PP, the motion is an excuse served on a platter so that the coalition government paralyzed itself in the inaction and renunciation of the improvement of labour rights and the reinforcement in the protection of workers. A motion for more compensation to restrict unjustified dismissal is out of place, when the priority and urgency is to combat the precarious and time-consuming pathologies of the labour market, which have been fired with the Government of Sánchez, under whose mandate the casualties have grown by 600 % because they do not exceed the probationary period; also, fixed breaks and unpaid overtime have been fired, implying an annual fraud of almost EUR 2500 million at the expense of the workers. The two points on the operative part would mean, if approved, a clamorous invitation to the second vice-president and minister of Labour and Social Economy to extend until the end of the term and leave it all as it is. This would explain the palatable tone of the questioner and questioner last week used in the debate. Having said that, I appreciate, Mrs Díaz, your presence in the blue bank following this debate, it is not the usual practice of ministers in this legislature. Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of the parliamentarians who in 2012 supported the labour reform, which unjustly nothing, Mr Salvador, because it was an indispensable mechanism for re-establishing the poor labour market and allowed Mr Rajoy's Government to curb, with great success, the historic destruction of employment which Mr Rodríguez Zapatero left behind, as well as the socio-economic misadjustment which led, even, to the reform of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, to which I voted against. A year ago, the current Government adopted a labour reform that is not by far achieving the objectives for which it was proposed, especially with regard to active employment policies. The shameful make-up and false reinterpretation of official statistical data, both national and Community data from Eurostat, cannot hide the very hard working reality that today has in check Spanish society, especially young people. Ladies and gentlemen, the CIS barometers reflect the growing concern of a large majority of citizens about unemployment and the economic situation. Let me refer to Asturias, my community of origin, because the data for the labour force survey of the past 2022 reflect that it was the autonomous community that suffered the biggest rise in unemployment in Spain, with a rate that rose from 10 to 14.39%. Also, once again Asturias closed the exercise as the region with the lowest activity rate in the country, 50.45 %, about 8 points below the national average, which was 58.52 %. Those figures and those that have already been referred to in this rostrum are, look where you look, a disaster. That is why, Mr Salvador, I understand your good intentions with regard to the substantial improvement in compensation for unjustified dismissal of a worker, and I would like to stress that the great priority for Asturias and Spain today is to facilitate job creation and, consequently, not to go further into the rigidities that bind the great job creators, who are the entrepreneurs, to whom we should protect for the benefit of more and better jobs. He concluded by pointing out that it is entirely impossible for new businesses or the labour market to emerge if flexibility in worker-entrepreneur relations continues to be curtailed, which always goes to the detriment of the worker and limits job creation, which should be the top priority. More than three years after the current coalition government was formed, employment is much more precarious and of worse quality than at the beginning of the mandate, and Spain is behind the European Union in unemployment data. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u183	Thank you. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u184	President, ladies and gentlemen, I have left on guztioi. I believe that there is little doubt about what Euskal Herria Bildu's position will be about the motion that today brings us Republican Left of Catalonia to increase redundancies. Obviously, it is going to be an affirmative vote. I do not know if, as the representative of VOX said, this debate or initiative is a song in the sun, but, in any case, surely Mr Jordi Salvador and I prefer the songs in the sun rather than the Face in the sun. [[Laughter]] It has sequential logic that we support this initiative, because this is only to regain or restore the dignity of workers' rights snatched by successive labour reforms in the Spanish state for decades. We are talking about 2010, we are talking about 2012 and we could talk about more than thirty amendments or reforms to the Workers' Statute that have impacted on the rights of workers. Therefore, today we will talk about raising the compensation for dismissal. We could talk about the recovery of processing wages. We should also talk about the administrative authorizations of EREs or the prevalence of sectoral or territorial agreements over others to ensure better conditions for women workers. That is, in short, all that we had in this House in the debate on labour reform just over a year ago could not be supported - the CEO did not like it - but it is something that we will continue to move. We thank the Republican Left of Catalonia for bringing this initiative. We will return both the Republican Left of Catalonia and Euskal Herria Bildu and BNG to bring in initiatives that will regain everything that has been stolen from the working class with the different reforms. In politics it is true that opera nostalgia, that nostalgia is a factor of action. Some say that any time past was better. I, honestly, believe that any time past was precisely that, past, and already. But it is no less true that every rule requires an exception, and if there is an exception that confirms that rule that any time passed is that labor rights have been devalued, labor rights have been lost to workers. That is all there is to prove or to find out through a review of what for decades has meant what has to do with compensation for dismissal. Thus, we can say, and it is not an empty statement, that throwing a worker on the street is increasingly costing less and less in the Spanish State. This is not an empty statement, because it corresponds to the reality that 64% is the percentage in which compensation has fallen since 1977. The wrongful dismissal in 1977 was sixty days a year, with a total of sixty months, five years. In 1980, with the Workers'Statute, it became forty-five days a year, with a maximum of forty-two months, three and a half years. And in 2012, with Rajoy's reform, this fell further, to thirty-three days a year, with a total of twenty-four monthly payments, two years. That's the reality we live in. And we no longer even talk about dismissals for objective causes, where it has been achieved, with the 2010 reform of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, that the laxity in accepting objective causes makes it practically possible to fire almost anything in the Spanish State. But make sure that all of the labor reforms, all of them, all of them until 2012, were saying or arguing or hosting three mantras, three principles. One, that the labor reform of that moment was necessary because it was going to increase stability in employment, and today you come out here as corifees to say that unemployment has not stopped growing, that the situation is dramatic, and I don't care whether it is in Asturias, in Euskal Herria or in Andalusia. These labour reforms have been approved by you because you said that you were going to guarantee stability in employment, when you have only brought insecurity. Why don't you do a self-criticism exercise? Why do they not recognize that their neoliberal models bring nothing but misery and exploitation for workers, rather than the obvious, and that this only brought precariousness? But they said more. They said that labour reform was necessary, any of which had occurred prior to 2012, because it was about reducing unemployment. However, we have seen here how unemployment rates continue to be dramatic. For another failure than to point out to the apologists of neoliberalism, even to the liberals, who proclaim it so much in this rostrum, that surely in this matter they keep it a little bit, even if it is only for recumbent or decorum. And they also said that this was going to raise wages, and what we see is that the profits of companies keep on increasing while the wages of workers do not increase in the same way as the profits of businesses, and to remember that there are the benefits of Iberdrola this week. But it is also necessary to approve this initiative because it would attack inequality between women and men very directly, because in dismissals women receive less compensation than men, of the order of 32% less. Therefore, breaking the pay gap also requires that. It is, in short, a question of changing the focus or paradigm, because this neoliberal model only brings ruin, misery and precariousness for workers. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u185	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Barandiaran Benito has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u186	Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. My dear friend Jordi, Member of the Republican Left, has today presented us with a very interesting motion with which we can converge to 98%. But let me tell you something. Paragraph 2 of the motion reads as follows: 'To analyse in depth the doctrine of the European Committee of Social Rights on the right of workers, recognised in Article 24 of the European Social Charter, not to be dismissed without valid reason, to adequate compensation or other appropriate redress and to adopt, after dialogue with the social actors and through the corresponding parliamentary deliberation, appropriate legislative amendments in order to establish a new compensation scheme for unjustified or fictitious dismissals which is, in fact, - this is key - restorer in the light of personal circumstances and of the damage caused to the victim and which has a genuine deterrent effect on the employer'. Perfect, we agree. Go ahead and that's why we empathize with that statement, it's more, we agree with it, but yet we think that the motion in its point 1 sins of an overwhelming inconsistency with the doctrine of the European Social Charter, whose application you claim. And I'll explain myself. Article 24 of the revised European Social Charter, which in turn reproduces article 10 of ILO Convention 158 on the termination of the employment contract, provides for the right of workers not to be dismissed without valid reason and to adequate compensation or other appropriate redress. For its part, article 56 of the Workers'Statute recognizes compensation of thirty-three days'wages for twenty-four months of service or, in its previous reaction, forty-five days and forty-two monthly instalments. We all know him. What is needed now is an explanation, because for a long time now different systems have been called into question precisely by the numerical determination of the effectiveness of this amount of compensation. In other words, many entities have understood that this determination of a certain ceiling violates article 24 of the European Social Charter. This has been the case in the cases that you have acknowledged on the basis of Resolution 106/2014, the case of Finland, the 158/2017, Italy, or the four collective claims, of which two have been settled against France, from which a particular doctrine arises, which is that workers dismissed without a valid reason have to receive adequate compensation or other appropriate redress and - as relevant - of sufficient level to deter the employer and compensate for the damage suffered by the victim. It adds, and is the key, that any stop at the fixing of damages that prevent compensation from being consistent with the loss suffered and sufficiently dissuasive is, in principle, contrary to the Charter. That's the point. If that is the doctrine, why in its first paragraph does it seek to fix a certain amount? It has been pointed out for a moment that it is indeed a matter of replacing each other, but under what conditions? The Charter states that it must be after a certain dialogue, after a certain process and with the effective conclusion, precisely in a motion to a Government entitled left or progressive - with all permission - and that it has been in its power to do so for a long time. It is incongruent, it is incoherent, it is contrary to the doctrine of the European Social Charter. It should also be noted that there are other issues arising from the European Social Charter. Who is the person who should take the option of reintegration to the job in case of improper dismissal? Who are the courts to decide on that? This is a very relevant issue. The representative of Citizens said to see if there was a need to judicialize labour relations more than they are. And I wonder: and why do civil claims have to be brought to justice and cannot be done in labour claims in order to adapt them precisely to those specific and individual circumstances, arising from acts of dismissal which are unfair and which must be able to be analysed in an effective way? So, Mr Salvador, we fully agree with the spirit. We believe that paragraph 1 is completely incongruent, not with the doctrine, but even with its own purposes, for going to the moment to remove yourself and put me in the act of the complaint, when it is also in the hands of the government to act. By the way, it is an initiative that you spoke of almost a year ago, on 6 June last year, the minister present here, to which I also want to thank you for your presence, because it is not usual either. But why put forward in these terms and, above all, why do we do it just moments before that collective claim raised by UGT and the Workers' Commissions is resolved?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u187	Your Honor, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u188	Yeah, I'm done. We do understand that it will be resolved in the sense that I believe that most of us hope, but, if necessary, this motion will put it in an inconvenient situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u189	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. In the context of this debate here Esquerra on the need to recover greater compensation for improper dismissals, last week we were surprised by Yolanda Díaz admitting that dismissal is too cheap and that there is too easy for entrepreneurs to fire. Of course, some of us who have been saying this for a long time thought - I think I was not the only one - that it is a pity that this woman is not a Minister of Labour to be able to do something about it, for example, to take advantage of the parliamentary majority in this House to repeal, once and for all, the regressive labour reform of the People's Party. [[pronounce words in Galician]] That is why, precisely because it was not done in its day, the BNG, together with other forces of the sovereign left, voted against the Government's proposal. In any case, it seems to us good to recognize that there is a problem, because that is the basis for being able to solve it. Today is the opportunity to support this Republican Left motion and take it into consideration. In any case, if this is not the case, a new opportunity will soon come to this House, a bill presented jointly by the BNG, Bildu and Esquerra to eliminate the facilities for dismissal, to recover compensation, at least 45 days per year worked, to recover processing wages and also to recover the administrative authorization of the EREs; that is, to truly repeal the reform of the People's Party that the Government did not make in its last proposal. We're still in time to get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u191	Thank you. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u192	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe that the debate before us is interesting, because apart from an in-depth debate on labour law, it also clearly identifies the positions of political parties. In my part, let me bring it to Catalonia and to the positions of the political parties in Catalonia. I believe there is a key issue in this motion. First, there is a whole serious and rigorous debate, which would probably take hours and hours, around dismissals without cause and how they have to be regulated and what regulatory reality exists, and this debate is certainly interesting and would require many hours of reflection. However, at the bottom of the approach, what is at the first point of the motion is to recover the dismissal at forty-five days per year worked. And, in this scenario, I want to situate the Republican Left of Catalonia, which proposes - and does not propose it again now, it has been proposing it for a long time - to recover forty-five days a year worked. And that is especially interesting, because in the hands of Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya is the Conselleria d'Empresa de la Generalitat de Catalunya. So I'm telling you: tell the company advisor to go through the companies in Catalonia to explain what they want for the forty-five days a year worked out to see what they answer. Because one has the feeling that when you raise these issues you do it thinking about the big billion-dollar profit companies, but you are not aware of the reality of our country, Catalonia, you do not think about small and medium-sized enterprises, about the gentleman who has set up a lampitry business and hired two or three people and now things are not going well for him and can not take on this compensation, nor that in his day he became entrepreneur and now has difficulty in managing the payroll or managing the workers he has. That is, going from thirty-three to forty-five days a year worked is unthinkable for small businesses, SMEs, companies of fifty or twenty workers. I don't think the company advisor would be able to give you this speech. You put this framework in large companies, companies that make millions of profits, but do not take into account the working reality of companies in Catalonia. These proposals clash directly with proposals for a centre, proposals that can cover a lot more people and that can be much more beneficial in regulating both labour regulations and economic relations in Catalonia. For all this, we are not in favour of increasing the compensation for dismissal to 45 days per year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u193	Thank you. Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u194	We will vote in favour of this motion, and we will do so despite the fact that we believe that the objective cannot be to return to the 2012 model, because it is no longer valid. The mere repeal is not a solution. In the last year 1 800 000 temporary contracts have been converted into indefinite contracts - not thanks to the vote of the Republican Left, nor of the BNG - thousands of people who for the first time will be able to raise their motherhood or exercise their trade union rights without fear of being renewed. They are not data, it is access to full citizenship for thousands of people who had not known anything other than precariousness, a new scenario, not the return to the past. The fall in temporaryity from 28 % to 14,8 % in the private sector means an improvement in the protection of women workers, also in compensation. We have made more progress in labour matters in this legislature than in the past forty years, and just as we have joined those who voted against the first labour reform that recovers rights, today we consider this motion very timely. It is opportune to resume the debate on the dismissal model in this case, the question is how we do it. After many years of waiting, this government ratified the European Social Charter in 2021, also bringing us up to date on the backlog of our country. And we not only ratify the European Social Charter, but we also ratify collective claims. That is why trade unions have been able to go to the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights for non-compliance with article 24 of the European Social Charter and ILO Convention 158. Article 24 deals with the right to protection in the event of dismissal. It states that in order to ensure protection in the event of dismissal, the right of all workers not to be dismissed without valid reasons and the right of workers dismissed without valid reasons to adequate compensation or other appropriate redress must be recognized. And take a good look, because this is not just about amounts or going back to the past, this is about driving a restorative and dissuasive model, which ends with the manifest defencelessness that the workers have and takes into account the real damage caused. This is an opportunity to prevent, for example, companies from internalising and presupposing in advance the costs of such redundancies. You put the example of compensation in this case for thirty-three days, which, if it had been forty-five, would have been about EUR 1200. Do you really think Amazon or the bank would stop firing for that amount? Of course not. Unjustified dismissal should not be able to internalize, it should serve to repair the impact that dismissal can have on people's lives. Let's make it really dissuasive, which will recognize me that this is difficult to do with a rated system. Last week the Minister of Labour referred to the Declaration of Philadelphia, the letter of the International Labour Organization, ILO, which in 1944 promulgated that work is not a commodity. The 2010 labour reform and, in particular, the 2012 labour reform traded with work, rights and dismissal. This country has suffered for decades from precarious reforms that, in addition, told us falsehoods, such as that precariousness was necessary to create occupation, that improving labour rights destroys occupation or that dismissal is expensive and makes hiring difficult. But the reality is far from these stories, the truth is that precariousness only serves to generate poverty and inequality, it is compatible to improve rights by creating new and better jobs and facilitating dismissal did not encourage recruitment, but rather encouraged - surprise - dismissal, toxic labour relations and abuse of power. The labour reform of 2021 makes it possible for us today to have this very debate, because the conversion of temporary to indefinite contracts automatically increases compensation. And I'll be clear, in Spain it's very cheap to fire, it's so cheap that some people get fired using wrongful dismissal compensation. This reform is necessary, must be addressed at the social dialogue tables and with parliamentary debate and must concentrate on the future. Let us not remain in a debate of amounts that does not solve the need to repair and deter improper dismissal. Let us adapt the compensation model to the standards of international law and finally remove Spain from this shameful anomaly. Let us move forward together, Mr Salvador, and do so with ambition, because of course we want better compensation, but above all we want them not to fire us because they want to. Something much deeper is at stake, which is a new culture of labour relations and a new social contract. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u195	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Hoyo Juliá has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u196	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is disappointing to see day after day how the left bank is plunged into its own metaverse, a metaverse where the economy works phenomenal and where the labour market is the most prosperous in the world, but it is time for them to leave their avatars, to abandon the petanque games and libraries where citizens cannot enter and come down to reality, a reality that is much more complicated and, above all, much more crude, and to the data I refer to. Alongside the Czech Republic, Spain is the only country that has not recovered the pre-pandemic GDP level. We have the highest overall unemployment rate; the highest youth unemployment rate, with a shameful 29.6%; and the second highest female unemployment rate in the 27 European countries. Moreover, since December 2020 prices have risen by 12,4 %, with the price of the commodities in the shopping basket triggered and variable mortgages have risen by around 300 euros per month. Spain, of course, is the OECD country in which the disposable income of families has fallen the most, by 7.85 %. After paying for everything, the families have nothing left. Of course, it is a very complicated situation and you, instead of giving solutions, are putting obstacles. We know, Minister, that you are trying to disguise the data but, despite this, all the reference statistics on the labour market - SEPE, affiliations, Eurostat and EPA - confirm that the economy has slowed down, that activity is reduced and therefore that government policies continue to lead workers to instability and job insecurity. In view of the distortion of fixed breaks, the actual unemployment is around 3.5 million people, and people with fixed breaks earn almost 30% less than the average of temporary breaks. With half a million more occupied, there are nearly ten thousand hours less worked per week than in 2019. Is this a quality job? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we know that they are not at their best with the partners of the government, but they should stop their feet and reflect on the future they are bringing to our country and on the responsibility they have, which is not a small one. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, no company wants to fire its workers because it is a symptom that things are not going well. The proposals of this motion, like all those emanating from the policy of extremes, are aimed at destroying the Spanish economy, at attacking our growth as a country and, of course, at breaking with normal labour relations between companies and workers; a relationship that does not have to be conflictive, but must be based on trust, understanding and collaboration. You want to impose a measure which adds rigidity to our labour market and which will, of course, complicate access to employment. You want to end the social dialogue. A year ago they signed the labour reform and, if the government will carry out this measure, besides having no word would put the arrival of European funds at risk. I hope you realize that the left have a wrong work pattern. They have to get out of the dichotomy between public employment and subsidy. The Spaniards don't want checks or pay, the Spaniards want a job to get personal autonomy, to get support for their family and to get a home. [[applause]] The Spaniards want that kind of independence and not another. So, stop criminalizing the economic sectors of this country. With their attempts to attack entrepreneurs and companies, what they achieve is to attack all those who seek a job opportunity. His actions would end up firing a lot of people, when it is actually the members of this Government who have to be fired. And I'm done, President, saying that, as Spanish and especially as Valencian, I feel very proud of businessman Juan Roig, as they would like to look like him even if it were just a little bit. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u197	Thank you. Mrs Perea i Conillas has the floor for the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u198	Thank you, President. Minister, thank you for being here. Spain has changed, gentlemen of the PP, today in Spain we have more indefinite relations than ever before. The data are solid, more than 20 million people working, a historical figure; more than half a million people affiliated than in 2021; one in two contracts are indefinite - with you it was one in ten - and the largest number of women affiliated in history. Wrong job model you're telling me, gentlemen of the PP? Mrs. Hoyo, please! [[The lady]] I am convinced that you have a nephew, a son or a daughter who has ceased to be a wear and tear worker and today has an indefinite contract. Ladies and gentlemen, the sign of identity of the government of Pedro Sánchez since the number one minute in labor was to put an end to the precariousness and restore the rights stolen by the People's Party with its disastrous labour reform of 2012. [[Applauds]] An imposed labour reform, which boosted collective bargaining and gave priority to the employer's position to the detriment of the worker. A labor reform that caused many to lose their jobs and others to be devalued their wages. A labor reform that reached its unemployment rate climax in December 2013, when you were ruling. Or don't you remember? I remember. Many people, lords of the People's Party, lost their future at that time. They will recognize me that the 2020 labour reform has taken a 180-degree turn and window of opportunity for millions of people, especially for young people and women. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, to the labour reform of 2020 you voted no. Three years later, Minister, you said it before, the results are very positive, with a drop of 17 points in the temporality - our job-slave compatible with job creation and the reduction of unemployment. Today dismissal is the last resort and, in that case, compensation must be fair, balanced, assessed and, of course, dissuasive. But, in any case, that in the social dialogue and, of course, we will soon know, with the best protection of unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you that maintaining employment during the pandemic has been key for Spain to achieve economic growth rates in 2022 of 5.5%. That is true, unlike you, gentlemen of the PP, all these policies were with social dialogue, and I believe that this morning has been put more in evidence that it is in the social dialogue where such a reform has to reside. Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, the agreement, the agreement and the pact are the sign of the socialists. We have just demonstrated this in Catalonia with the approval of the budgets for millions of Catalans. The PSC - and I say it humbly - has been a key actor. This motion, gentlemen of Esquerra, does not seek the concertation and the pact, this motion seeks to signify and confront itself, and to check it is enough to see the first point of its motion. Lord Savior, with all my respect - and you know I have it - this motion is not a toast to the sun, it's a tweet, it's a headline, and that's not politics, that's making the game of the short and partisan regatta, and that for all people is sterile. The government of Pedro Sánchez has defined the objective, yes to restore the rights stolen by the People's Party to workers, yes to the path of dialogue, yes to employment with ERTE and the protection of economic activity, yes to the 1080 euros of the interprofessional minimum wage, yes to the equality of arms between entrepreneur and worker, yes to the rights of domestic workers and yes to the end of temporality. [[applause]] Measures all of them that will protect the social majority, also the good people. Precisely, Mr. Feijoo said yesterday - and I'm going fast -: Stop, Mr. Sánchez, bothering the good people. And we wonder, who pays an interprofessional minimum wage or a pension is good people? Is the young man who gets a scholarship good people? Is the tenant who is living in their properties or the family who receives the minimum living income good people? [[Rumors]] [[pointing to the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress]] [[Rumors]] Gentlemen of the People's Party, you only defend the interests of the privileged minority, us of the social majority. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Esquerra, I know that on many occasions you have shown your support for all these policies, but believe me when I tell you that I would still be paying us today - and many of you too - your no to labour reform. His motion, with all due respect, is a subterfuge to whitewash that labor reform. And gentlemen of the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u199	Mrs. Perea, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u200	The corporal. As the Minister of Labour said last week, if you want to do something useful for this country, correct and withdraw the recourse to labour reform. For two things. Firstly, to be honest with the people, and secondly, so that Mr. Feijóo stops counting discontinuous fixed and can count sheep. [[Rumors]] That's a metaverse, Mrs. Hoyo. Correct, remove the resource and sum up the social majority, who are also good people. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u201	Thank you very much, Mrs. Perea. Mr Salvador, does your parliamentary group accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u202	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u203	All right, well, we'll vote on your terms. Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress, on the development of the Government's action within the scope of the Ministry of Justice, particularly with regard to the administration of justice's lettering, as well as on the proposal and implementation of the Government's policy for the development of the legal order in matters of criminal, civil, commercial and procedural law. [[File number 173/000195]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u204	We continue with the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress on the development of the Government's action in the field of the Ministry of Justice, especially with regard to the strike of lawyers of the Administration of Justice, as well as on the proposal and implementation of the Government's policy for the development of the legal system in the field of criminal, civil, commercial and procedural law. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mr Jerez Juan has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u205	Thank you very much, Madam President. Since Pedro Sánchez presides over this government, the Council of Ministers has passed about 140 decrees laws. It is a legitimate practice, but at the same time perverse if it is a question of abducting the functions of the Courts to legislate from the Moncloa, in the same way as Caesar did from his imperial palace, the same. What should be an exceptional measure and for cases of urgent need has been made a standard by the Government, stealing from the Courts its legislative and control role. This is a calculated manoeuvre that seeks to avoid social debate and parliamentary debate, to prevent constitutional bodies from issuing their mandatory reports or to suspend the control of legality assigned to them by law. It is an abusive practice that is disparaging the true essence of the Courts and, of course, assaulting the separation of powers. It is about 140 decrees laws since it arrived in the Moncloa. Pedro Sánchez accumulates 38 emergency bills and 9 proposals for organic law that are not accompanied by mandatory reports, emergency procedures that are used, above all, norms of ideological content on abortion, euthanasia, transgender or reform of the judiciary. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are a very, very bad lawmaker. The law of yes is yes the paradigm of how to legislate backwards, against people, against the general interest and against women. Not only do we warn, but also the Council of State and the General Council of the Judiciary, the latter body which has a broader view of how laws are applied in the courts. But, of course, when legislation is made for political purpose, disregarding the meaning and the legal technique, these things happen. The fault of legislating so badly is not the fault of those judges whom you call sexists, the fault of all this is not the fault of 61% of women judges and 31% of men judges, who simply apply the laws as you make up them; the problem lies in the government president's commitment to promoting legal reforms with terrible criteria, all in view of maintaining parliamentary agreements forged with bad companies. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, what has happened with the law of yes is indeed another milestone in the moral degeneration of an insensitive government. And there you are with your cardboard feminism as if nothing, like the one who hears rain, as you go out on the street every day. What are you waiting for, for time to pass and for no sex offender to benefit, no predator to release? Don't wait for the storm to pass and the infamy to normalize. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two initiatives in this House to resolve the drama. One is the People's Party and the other is the Socialist Party. Order doesn't matter, it matters the end. I'm just telling you to count on us, but don't take any longer. Do not waste your time trying to convince the most clumsy part of your Government. Don't invest any more time in them. Do so once and for the dignity of all women and for the reparation of the pain that the victims continue to suffer today. [[Applauds]] Having said that, let us now go to the Penal Code. Look, since the enactment of the Penal Code in 1995, it has been reformed on forty-five occasions. In twenty-eight years of our Penal Code, 33 per cent of these reforms have been promoted by this Government, making the Penal Code an instrument for its service and for the service of the independence movement, which are its necessary collaborators. They have repealed the crime of sedition and reduced the crime of embezzlement so that everything will return to nothing when they do so again, to promote impunity and to thank them for their support. Ladies and gentlemen, this Government has manipulated the Penal Code so much that it has made it unrecognizable. He's twisted it so much, it's gone out of his hands. He has brought it down, and he has left it in the hands of those who never have to trust. They've lost control and given them the rudder. And if in this way the government is dedicated to legislate, not with less contempt the Ministry of Justice does so with those to whom it has an obligation and duty to defend. A Ministry that maintains chronified problems to which it fails to grant any solution. Strikes by officials and professionals occur with unusual periodicity. The collapse in the courts reaches levels of despair. Lawyers on duty continue to be underpaid. The efficiency laws do not appreciate determined progress and today they are more discussed than ever. And in case all of this is little, which may seem little to you, they continue to keep in the office a secretary of state who is dedicated to insulting, calling thugs, the people to whom he owes service and respect. All these questions are raised today in our motion. Of all this eggplant in which Minister Llop is involved, what we are most concerned about is the consequences directly suffered by the user. Pending the resolution of outstanding cases, which carries the highest deficit in history, we must add to it the more than 200,000 trials suspended throughout Spain for the lack of negotiating capacity of the ministry with the lawyers of the Administration of Justice. Judgments that many expect to be held months ago, if not years, and judgments that depend on the immediate future of many people, of many families. EUR 4 billion is frozen in the court appropriations account. They are paralyzed, suspended, instead of being in the pocket of many families, which they miss. The ministry is unable to bring this situation back, a situation that has already overwhelmed them. Ladies and gentlemen, the ministry is late for a negotiation that it does not know how to get out of. They have ignored with contempt the demands of the lawyers, dilated in excess a solution that never arrives. They thought it was a joke. No kidding. They thought it was a passing joke. None of that. They have been claiming their remuneration for a month now. A month ago, precisely all that time the minister has been locked in a glass urn. I'm on my way. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for wisdom and responsibility to resolve a crisis that the ministry has allowed to grow longer than it should. Justice is already suffering from unbearable structural deterioration, and so are you. It's possible that all this is going to be great for you...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u206	Mr. Jerez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u207	...and they don't know where to start. If so, finish as soon as possible and step aside at once. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Jerez. In defence of the amendment tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Ruiz Navarro has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u209	With the coming of the Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a motion by the People's Party which we could perhaps describe as picturesque, and which contains a smallum whose points are hardly related to the text of the explanatory statement. The text of the explanatory statement itself goes into matters which are not later included in the Petitum of the motion. Anyway, what would that say, this is certainly picturesque. Honestly, it is a well-intentioned motion that has been built fast and running and without having managed to introduce a minimum of coherence. In any case, we have recorded an amendment that we believe can help improve the text that is being submitted to us. Apart from the above, I would like to comment on two issues mentioned in the motion. In relation to the first, in the open collective conflict between the lawyers of justice and the ministry headed by the lady - absent - Llop, one of the parties is not up to the task, and it is not precisely the public workers. Public workers who, as is often the case in every strike, demand fairer pay and professional conditions. That's new, isn't it? Conditions which, in this case, had been accepted in writing by a secretary of state who is behaving arrogantly and pre-potently and who, instead of assuming his responsibilities, prefers to throw petrol, seeing and insulting the lawyers in many ways, including calling them privileged and beating. Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible that, sitting at the same table, six hours will pass without the representatives of the ministry presenting a single proposal for a solution or deigning to look at the members of the strike committee? How is that possible? [[Applauds]] The next meeting is scheduled for Friday. Looks like a junior with no decision-making capacity is going to attend. Where's the minister? Why don't you face it? Is that the socialist government's respect for public workers who exercise their right to strike? Is this the respect which the Socialist Government has for the millions of Spaniards affected by the paralysis of justice? What about the government partners? The Podemos don't have anything to say here either? You registered, in the 2018 budgets, an amendment - which I have here - calling for issues very similar to those defended today by the lawyers of Justice. Do you really have nothing to say today? Are you going to be complicit in your silence of what your partners are doing? [[Applauds]] However, it must be recognized that the proponent party, the People's Party, is also not free of sin in this matter, because, ruling Spain with an absolute majority from 2011, it did nothing to reward the new powers assumed by the body of lawyers in the 2009 procedural reforms. PP and PSOE, PSOE and PP are responsible for this unjust situation, as they have been able to distribute their chairs in a few weeks' time in the Constitutional Court and in the Court of Auditors, but in fifteen years they have not found a moment to prevent us from reaching the current conflict. [[Applauds]] The second issue to be mentioned is that, in fact, the implementation of a new model of justice requires sufficient financial resources, both for the new structures and material means and also to adequately pay for the new responsibilities assumed by judges, lawyers and also judicial officials. To this end, the ministry should speak with trade unions and professional associations, but, yes, with seriousness and good faith, and by complying with the agreements reached, which, as we have seen, goes by replacing its current management team with another, which at least is worthy of some respect. In short, we need efficient, resourced and well-remunerated justice. To do so, we must have high ministerial officials who know how to live up to their responsibilities; ministerial officials who banish insult, grievousness and ill-education towards those who work under their command. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Ruiz. Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u211	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Administration of Justice is going through its most critical moment in the course of the century, and the seven points of the motion put forward by the People's Parliamentary Group point to a number of aspects that need to be corrected and that I will support with my vote. Ladies and gentlemen, like Mr Jerez Juan, I would like to refer to the strike which, indefinitely, the lawyers of the Administration of Justice have been holding for a month. This conflict and the outrage of public workers, on which an arsonist acting as Secretary of State of Justice has irresponsibly laid down very serious accusations, is a reflection of the inability of the Government of Pedro Sánchez to fulfil its own commitments to modernise and improve the conditions under which a key public service is provided and adequately remunerated. I do not welcome the fact that the closure and the obvious clumsiness of Mrs Llop's ministerial team has led to the closure of the negotiations and the suspension of 178 000 trials, which is a historic blockade in addition to the inappropriate conditions under which many officials work day by day in all Spanish courts. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Justice, Mrs Llop, was opening the Exhibition Fair last August. In a grandiose speech about all things, except for those within its competence, he did not say a single word about the precariousness that affects almost half of the judicial offices that we have in Asturias, with unhealthy conditions, revealed in accredited official reports, which should lead to the closure of the units. I do not get to close my eyes and not intervene in situations that are prolonged and accentuated over the years. That is why I also think that the point of the motion is particularly relevant so that sufficient budget lines can be made available. I conclude by returning to the conflict of lawyers and expressing my wish that an agreement be reached at the meeting scheduled for next Friday between the ministry and the representatives of the entities that have called for the just action demanding that, since 24 January, the courts keep the courts paralyzed, a situation that leads to a collapse of colossal dimensions. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u212	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u213	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. First, the efforts of the Ministry of Justice to promote co-governance in the management of the administration of justice must be recognized, as it is doing a good job with the autonomous communities in managing the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism to modernize justice. We hope that the reforms of organizational laws will really advance for the sake of justice and for all citizens. That is why we are extremely concerned about this strike by the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, because the damage it is causing in society is very considerable and seriously affects many citizens on vital issues, because when we go to justice it is not precisely for minor issues, not to mention other legal operators, judges, professionals, etc. By entering into the content of the motion, we see that there are reasonable things that we share, because who does not want this conflict to be resolved and the measures, which are supposed to serve to improve the world, to be accelerated? Everyone agrees. But, of course, behind everything is the pre-election tuphil that serves and has the purpose of winning votes. Then the elections will come and you'll see. That is why we are going to abstain. Actually, in Cantabria, which is where I have data, the effect of the strike is that there are more than seven hundred unprocessed demands, more than five thousand unmanageable writings, more than one thousand two hundred face-to-face proceedings without being held for lack of public faith, and this will take time to catch up. Although the index of slope and waiting times for sightings are good, in general terms, every day the numbers increase and the damage grows. In that, not only must the ministry be appealed to to resolve the matter, but the lawyers on strike must also put on their side to resolve the matter. We are having many problems in recent times with the implementation of laws that we are adopting in this Congress itself, so that this is now another step in the deterioration of public opinion on the functioning of justice. Now, on a constructive basis, I would tell the Government that it is necessary for all involved to prepare a plan for the end of the conflict; a plan that does not involve only the autonomous communities with competence in Justice, which must bear costs in the programmes of action, staff reinforcements, day extensions, etc. Obviously, communities will work together, but it is essential that this plan include some mechanism to reduce the damage caused by the strike to all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u215	Thank you very much, President. I rise to the rostrum to speak very briefly and to point out to the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group that we share a large part of the operative part of the motion calling on the Government to address the urgent need to address the labour conflict of the lawyers of the Administration of Justice; not to allow for lack of resources the reforms contained in the laws currently in process, of organizational and procedural efficiency, and also to conclude the draft law on defence and improve the turn of office or launch the still pending competition platform. However, ladies and gentlemen, even if we agree that these issues are urgent and must be addressed by the Government without delay, we will not vote in favour of the initiative because it is not only made up of the operative part of the motion, but it is a political package of impetus and control of the Government, which also includes inextricably the debate on the inquiry, such as that held last week, through the Minister of Justice, and the motion, the written statement and also the statement made today in this rostrum. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group, we do not share in any way the substance or the form of what you have put forward in this rostrum because, moreover, it is largely inconsistent with the operative part of the motion - as has already been pointed out by some of the speakers who have spoken before me. You have operated in the manner of a general cause in the rostrum, while what you propose to us for a vote is something much more limited and contained, both in its form and in its substance. In short, an exercise of the old activity of throwing the stone in the rostrum and hiding the hand when asking us to vote. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, authors of the initiative we are debating, you, if you consider it so, can gladly go against the Government and a minister and even border on personal disqualification, but, in that case, do not expect our parliamentary group to support you, even if specific issues that you raise, devoid of the disqualification face and other issues with which you embrace them, are worthy of attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u217	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. What I cannot admit, what I will not consent to, is that a certain responsibility should be established in the strike, in the legitimate exercise of the right to strike, by the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, as Mr Mazón suggested to me. Even, it seems to me that Mr. Legarda takes the side of the ministry when he says that what the Ministry of Justice is doing in relation to the resolution of this conflict cannot be disqualified. Also, Mr Jerez, I have to say that I very much agree with what Mr Ruiz Navarro has said: this is also a problem for the People's Party and the Socialist Party. We're going to expose the problem to realize that the LAJs, the lawyers from the Justice Administration, the court secretaries, are right. Let's make this clear, Mr. Jerez. You take advantage of the conflict to impel the government into the legitimate role we play in the opposition, but it does not say that you are right in the famous 80 per cent of judges' salaries. In 2003 and 2009, a number of procedural reforms were taking place, whereby the judicial secretaries were given many new powers in the direction of the new Judicial Office, so that the judge remained simply as someone who handed down sentences, but did not direct the proceedings. The court secretary becomes the judge of the proceedings and no remuneration is paid, as always. The People's Party and the Socialist Party are asking how we make the justice service work better, because it gravitates on the shoulders of such magnificent professionals as the judicial secretaries, the judges themselves, the prosecutors, the lawyers of the state, instead of increasing the staff, instead of increasing the salaries, instead of providing more resources. Forty years of hardship in justice because of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Citizens have been from the very first moment alongside the lawyers of the Administration of Justice. We have put forward amendments to all the general budget laws of the State, we have put forward the equalization amendments, also in the efficiency laws, and the Government has vetoed them to us by increasing public spending. You, gentlemen of the People's Party, have not done this. Why didn't they? For two reasons you have not done so: the first is because you feel responsible, as Mr Ruiz Navarro has rightly said, because you, being able to fix this situation when you ruled, have not done so, and the second is because you are receiving, as we are all receiving, the pressures of judicial associations because the judges do not want to pay the judicial secretaries in this way. Why? Because by linking it to their own salary, they think it hinders their own collective bargaining. The Ministry of Finance now, when it has to negotiate with the judges, will also have to calculate the amount of salary increase of the judicial secretaries. Is this from the wage-fixing clause of the Justice Administration's lawyers, that of the judges, something new that we have invented now, or that these Justice Administration's lawyers have invented themselves as a way to abuse? This comes in Law 101/1966, that is to say, when the form of remuneration for duty is ended in 1947 of the judicial secretaries, the clause of attachment to the salaries of the judges is already established in 1966. What happens is that then the salary of the judges is increased through the complements, and these gentlemen get unchecked and that's why it's fair. That is why it is the ministry that offers this possibility of negotiation, and that is why it is the ministry that reaches this agreement with the lawyers of the Administration of Justice, and publishes it on its own website, despite the fact that the ministry now denies it. Then comes Mrs. Montero, arrives Hacienda with her scissors, and says: I do not fulfill it. And this gentleman, who is called Antonio Julián Rodríguez Esquerdo, alias Tontxu, the Secretary of State for Justice, is indeed devoting himself to insulting the lawyers of the Administration of Justice and paralysing justice. You have to resign, and if you don't, you have to cease because of absolute incompetence. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u219	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that at this point we have a little revival of last week. The only thing we talked about last week was social security, and today we're talking about justice. Last week the PP presented a motion on Social Security in which they pointed out all the malfunctions that occur in Social Security, and we also pointed out the question of the previous appointments, the bureaucracy, the errors in the minimum income vital, the income in the quota of autonomous by the regulation by stages. This week the PP takes advantage of the strike of the judicial secretaries to do more or less the same in the field of justice. Just as the diagnosis is more or less the same, I think the result will also be more or less the same on the part of the PDECAT. In other words, we will recognize that the situation of strike in the justice service is indeed unsustainable. We will recognize that the situation that has arisen with the suspension of trials, which ultimately harms the citizens - who do not have all the time in the world to go to justice, to do procedures, to make judgments that have been pointed out in many cases for three or six months or even for almost a year, and then find that five minutes before they are suspended from trial without any kind of explanation - is unsustainable. It is untenable for citizens and unsustainable for justice professionals, who have had to prepare for such a trial, who have had to work on this subject and find that for no reason or five minutes before or with a call that same day at eight and a half in the morning they confirm whether the trial is going to take place or not. Therefore, in PeCAT we agree that, in this area, the strike that takes place in the justice service is totally detrimental to the proper functioning of the justice service, which did not shine for its excellence. The strike, of course, is fair, as they have all the right of the world to strike. In this area, however, the PP takes advantage of this chapter to get everything you want here in relation to justice, from the obstruction of the laws of organizational efficiency or procedural efficiency to the question of the competition platform or the question you want to add, such as the Law on the Right to Defence or the subject of relations with taxation. In the end, what the PP forgets in this motion - and it is important to point out - is that in relation to justice something must happen with the General Council of the Judiciary. It would not be wrong for this motion to put something in relation to the General Council of the Judiciary. We will therefore abstain in this motion. We give you the reason that the situation that has been generated in the service of justice is unsustainable, that you could work much better on many of the fronts that depend on the ministry, but the reality is that you have to value the whole, and the whole, if you look at the motion and then look at last week's inquiry, is a constant battle between the PP of the PSOE, which beyond reproaches on one side and the other does not bring any benefit to improve this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u220	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u221	Thank you, President. We find a motion that mixes a lot of things. On the one hand, it highlights the shortcomings of the judicial system, with which we agree in many, but, on the other hand, they use the public justice service for electoral purposes, and we do not like that so much. As a professional who knows the justice system, I have seen everything, professionals and judges who are super guarantors and others who are not. The Ministry of Justice has very important challenges on its table and we are seeing that they are not facing themselves, both structural challenges of the Justice Administration and material remains that directly affect the lives of citizens. When a citizen comes to justice she usually does so because she really has a problem, which for her is the most important in the world. And what is expected of justice in general is that its demands be met, that fair decisions be made and all with proportional times. That is only possible if we have a truly impartial judicial system, but especially if there are sufficient resources for the public justice service to be truly efficient and effective. The strike of the lawyers of the Administration of Justice responds to years of complaint; a just claim that the Ministry of Justice has not been able to resolve, like many of the problems that persist today. I would like to recall here that only Esquerra Republicana, only our parliamentary group, presented in the general budgets of 2021 an amendment for the equal pay of the lawyers of the Administration of Justice. The Ministry of Justice has such important challenges as the use and promotion of official languages in the Administration of Justice, such as Catalan in Catalonia or a defence law that truly protects the justiciable. According to recent data from the General Council of the Judiciary, some cases are slow to resolve twice as much as they were ten years ago. It is urgent to guarantee the right to free legal assistance to all prisoners from the moment of entry into the prison, not only from the moment of appeal. The current, unsecured legislation and the lack of funding to make this coverage possible are causing discrimination and aggravating inequalities also in persons deprived of their liberty. There is also a need for a reform of the shift, giving the professionals of the shift the dignity they deserve at once. The profession of the lawyers of the office shift is truly vocational, please, we need as they are dignified. [[Applauds]] Sufficient budget allocation is required for effective translation in all jurisdictional proceedings. Professionals who have participated in processes that require technical assistance and are listening to me know perfectly well that it is a genuine viacrucis to develop a view between people who do not understand the languages used. In the 21st century this is simply incomprehensible. There is also a need for a shift of office, for example in social jurisdiction or also for the defence of abused animals, and for a thorough reform of the system of competition-opposition of the judicial and fiscal career, because they are oppositions that have become absolutely obsolete and that do not respond to the challenges we face as a society. And what about the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary? It is a responsibility of both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, because it is the governing body of the judges, which has to give guidance to the judges and also has to compel them to observe and comply with the resolutions and requirements of international bodies and bodies. These are some of the major challenges facing the Ministry of Justice and are of the utmost urgency. Criticism goes to both parties, because some have ruled for many years and have done nothing, and others are ruling now and are not facing them either. That is why we cannot support this motion, as I said at the beginning, because many things are mixed up. We are convinced that the legal actors most directly affected by the proposals contained in this motion will agree with us by considering that the needs of the sector are not solved by a toast to the sun in the form of a non-legislative initiative, such as this motion, let alone by those who, having held government responsibilities for many years, have not advanced a millimeter in what they now claim. So, ladies and gentlemen of the PP and ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, don't hide behind the famous 'and you more' anymore, please. Prove with facts and not with words what your position is on this matter. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u222	Thank you very much, Mrs. Telechea. Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podem-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u223	Thank you, President. Indeed, Mr Jerez, we have had to pass many decrees and laws in order to adapt the work of the Justice Administration during the pandemic and subsequently to its consequences. If it had been for you, of course it would have been absolutely collapsed. They bring this motion here when the amount for the Organizational Efficiency Act has been increased by 9 million euros, 6 million euros for the creation of 54 mediation units and reach 1804 million euros in personnel costs. There is an offer of employment of three hundred places for entry into the judicial and fiscal career, and, with two million euros, there is a doubling of the grants of access for candidates to the opposition to judges, prosecutors, state lawyers and lawyers of the Administration of Justice, and this has only been done by this Government. I wish I had ruled when I was studying the race and at the same time had to work, because I didn't get a chance to make any opposition. Certainly, the Ministry of Justice must make progress in resolving the situation of the lawyers' strike as soon as possible, and that is what you did not do when you ruled. But please stop using that to campaign, because you have few lessons to give. It is clear that much remains to be improved in the administration of justice, but we must have memory, even democratic memory, and I say it as a spokesman, and we have it. Honestly, I don't know how you have the nerve to bring this motion and you don't feel ashamed, when in all these years you have taken absolutely no responsibility. His party has the dishonorable honour of having had all the professionals of the Administration of Justice against its policies. So, are you going to give lessons with this motion? You have spoken of the crisis of justice. Well, I'll tell you about the crisis. October 2012, Mr Gallardón: 'The PP alone approves the rise in court fees. Opposition, judicial power, judges and prosecutors strike the coffer of excessive and dissuasive'. [[Shows a press clipping]] That's why they've never had an absolute majority again. The whole opposition and the whole administration of justice were against it. In February 2013: More than two thousand judges and prosecutors, 2553, 62% of the total, support the strike against the reform of Gallardón for judicial fees, reform of the General Council of the Judiciary and changes in the Civil Registry. [[Shows a press clipping]] November 2013, a capture of my social networks supporting the convening of concentrations to manifest the rejection of Law 10/2012. [[Show a picture]] There we were. And I was not alone, we were more than 25 000 lawyers, against their judicial fees and in favour of suppression, supporting the manifesto approved by the General Council of the Spanish Bar Association. In February 2015, justice recognizes that it does not know where the more than six hundred million collected with the judicial fees, which were precisely to invest them in justice, have gone. Where's the money, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? In February 2015, the PP admits that its fees hinder citizens' access to justice and vote for the abolition of court fees. Justice for the rich and justice for the poor. You yourself had to back off, but three years later, harming the professionals, that we had a very bad time at the time, and also the justice administrators, who could not access it. Case Lezo, scandalous: 'judges and prosecutors threaten a strike if the government does not depolitize justice'. New fire for Mariano Rajoy's executive. Similarly, in May 2017, Catalá makes history: 'Prime Minister reprobated by the Plenary of Congress'. Scandalaz, reproved prime minister. Since the outbreak of the case Lezo Rafael Catalá has been widely questioned - they said - and accused of interference in the investigations and judicial actions of the case. Again: 'judges and prosecutors, on strike against the deterioration of justice'. Right after that, we threw them out of the government. In 2018, Senator Ignacio Cosidó said his party would be able to control the Second Supreme Hall through the back door. The Supreme Court found it unacceptable. For twenty-five years they have been fully employed to guarantee the conservative monopoly in the Criminal Chamber. In December 2022 they created an unprecedented institutional crisis between the Legislature and the Judiciary following their blockade of the Constitution and the General Council of the Judiciary. In short, the damage you have done to the prestige of the courts, to us - the professionals - to the prestige of justice and, therefore, to democracy is absolutely irreparable. Citizenship does not trust justice for its continued interference. How will you trust if, while prescribing your corruptions, my party has been opened 29 cases with its patriotic police, with its government? Even yesterday, Judge Escalonilla said that, by mistake, he improperly included Pablo Iglesias among those investigated by the Neurona case.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u224	Mrs. Velarde, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u225	It is extremely serious what they are doing to the justice of our country with harassment of political opponents and contempt for the judicial career. And neither the users of justice nor us, the professionals, nor the decent judges and judges of this country deserve that. Let's not forget! So, take your hands off our public powers and stop using justice for your party interests. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u226	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velarde. For the Socialist Group, Mr González Caballero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u227	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, by the intervention of the People's Party, today we see what you are really interested in. The PP in what it is really interested in is to look for problems, rather than to evaluate the solutions put by the government of Pedro Sánchez. We checked it last week, after the sour tone deployed by the spokesman of the PP in the inquiry to the Minister of Justice. Today we have the second round, sour, with an initiative in which the least important for the PP is the state of justice, the least important are the citizens and lawyers who suffer this LAJ strike. This motion of the People's Party only aims to disqualify the minister. But, ladies and gentlemen, what justice needs is for the PP to pull his shoulder on matters of state such as this and to stop making a fuss. They have missed a new opportunity for us to see a constructive PP, a PP able to explain their sincere position in relation to the demands of the judicial secretaries, because that is or was supposedly the main theme of the motion, and again it has not been so. Today we find ourselves at the same inconsistent, opportunistic PP who has no objection to using everything completely, even women. And I say to them, "All right, stop using feminism in vain." I remind you that this Government has done more for women and therefore for feminism than all the governments of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] Because to support women is to support the SMI for precarious workers, to support women is to upgrade pensions, to support women is to dignify the rights of domestic workers. Not to support women is to have for twelve years a remedy against the abortion law, not to support women is to agree with the extreme right and not to support women is to under-finance the state pact against gender-based violence, as did the governments of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] So you can't teach us any lessons, and today you're playing the game again. But I don't want to get off this rostrum without being made clear about what we are dealing with today, justice. The minister asked and they did not answer it, and today they have again missed another opportunity. I ask you again: Are you in favour of the administration of justice's lawyers covering 85% of what a judge or a judge is charging? Because you use with the lawyers of the Administration of Justice the same method that you used with your former leader, Mr. Married: one day you applaud them and the next you betray them; to the first of change, total inconsistency. [[Applauds]] And all this to hide the work of a government that, as I said, continues in the solutions, a government that prioritizes justice at the service of the citizen and that also bets on the improvement of the body of lawyers, especially that of the less favoured, groups 4 and 5. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, do not have a model of justice. They have a model, it is true: a model of opposition, the opposition because yes, the opposition and the blockade to any measure of this government, the opposition to the renewal of constitutional organs. That is his opposition model, that of the opposition of the blockade, which makes international media like The Economist assert that Spain would be even better democracy if the PP stopped blocking, complied with the Constitution and helped to renew the General Council of the Judiciary. [[Applauds]] It's been 1539 days without you complying with the Constitution, and hopefully not another day. [[Applauds]] And yes, ladies and gentlemen, in front of your blockade, we have the strength to have a government that puts solutions and fulfils, with a ministry that meets the increasing budgets of justice, with a ministry that meets the calls of judges and prosecutors in two hundred places, with a ministry that meets the children of the working classes who want to be judges and that thanks to this government they will have a scholarship; yes, ladies and gentlemen, a ministry that fulfills the great reforms of the country. And here you have a parliamentary group, about 120 Members who once again reach out to you. We will have it for our organization of justice to go from the 19th to the 21st century. Unfortunately, Mr Jerez, this hand has been constantly rejected: with the Competition Law, which voted against; with the law for the protection of whistleblowers of corruption, which voted against last week; with the law on access to the profession of lawyer, which did not vote in favour; with the law on the reform of the Commercial Court, which also voted against. In short, with those votes against you reflect your position of blocking everything positive that this government brings to Spain. And I'm done, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if you really want to be a state party again someday, prove it, but with facts, not words. Invoice, not verbal. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u228	Thank you very much, Mr González. Mr Jerez, does your group accept the amendment that has been tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u229	Yes, President. We're reviewing it.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-22-CD230222.u230	Thank you so much. When they have the final text, they send it to us. Thank you all very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was two and fifteen minutes in the afternoon.
