ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Take your seats, please. Ladies and gentlemen, prior to the consideration of the agenda, we shall take the oath or promise of compliance with the Constitution in accordance with Article 20.1.3 of the Rules of Procedure. In place of Don Odón Elorza González, I ask Don María Luisa García Guruchaga if she swears or promises to abide by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u2	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u3	Doña María Luisa García Guruchaga has acquired the full status of MP. Congratulations. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are now beginning with the debate on the proposal for a law of the Parliament of the Canary Islands, redrafting Article 44 (1) (A) of Law 19/1994, of 6 July, amending the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, on triangular operations or trading of entities registered in the Special Area of the Canary Islands since its creation. [[ZEC]] For this reason, we are joined in the rostrum by the President of the Parliament of the Canary Islands, whom we would like to extend the warmest welcome to this House, to the Congress of Deputies, and to three representatives of the Parliament of the Canary Islands who make up the delegation that will defend the proposal and whom I also welcome to this House. For the presentation of the initiative, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Manuel Domínguez González.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u5	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear spokesman for the Group of the European People's Party, allow me to express before I begin my defence on this proposal for a law on triangular operations, my joy and the honour that it means to return to the Congress of Deputies, to this Chamber, on this occasion to defend the interests of my people, of my land, of the Canary Islands, of each and every canary. Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that the Canary Islands is more than 2,000 kilometres away from the rest of the national territory. I imagine that this is a fact that no one escapes, but believe me if I tell you that, with regard to the treatment given to us by this Government, we are a little further away. Today, living in the Canary Islands is feeling like a second-rate Spaniard, a second-rate citizen. And to put us in a position, I'm going to put some data on the table. Today, Canarias is the autonomous community with the most severe poverty in the entire national territory. Today, more than 600,000 people at risk of poverty live in the Canary Islands. In the Canary Islands, 47% of children under 18 are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. Canary Islands has the highest rate of youth unemployment in each of the autonomous communities in this country. In the Canary Islands, and listen to me carefully, 457 people live in hospitals even though they have been discharged, and some of them have exceeded eleven years of stay. Canary Islands is the autonomous community with the highest percentage of young people between the ages of 15 and 29 who neither study nor work. And, look, given this false appearance that Canarias is a tax haven, there is a report from the Ministry of Finance that says that Canarias is the third autonomous community with the greatest fiscal pressure, behind the Basque Country and Navarre. As you see, ladies and gentlemen, it is fair that we are here today to defend our rights, and I have said it well: our rights, which are not privileges. One cannot listen from the Canary Islands to tell the government that in the Canary Islands we live on the basis of privileges. What do you mean, privileges? In the Canary Islands we only have rights. Right to be at the same level as the rest of the national territory and then, yes, to leave on equal terms. And to defend these rights we have agreed on almost all political formations represented in the Regional Chamber. And I say almost all because there is one that I am not even going to name, the one that has come to politics to reject everything, which has also voted against in the Regional Chamber. Because, ladies and gentlemen, our economic and fiscal regime, which is a right and not a privilege, needs legal certainty. And I could say here today what Minister Montero recounted about the law of yes is yes about judges. He said they interpret a good law skewedly. I am not going to say that about the inspectors, because the inspectors only execute what dictates the norm, they do not interpret it. It has therefore been that blindness, that disdain, that contempt we have experienced or that lack of rigour of this Government and the complacency of the autonomous Government that has led us to have an economic and fiscal regime that has some loopholes, which on certain occasions drives investment away. Canary Islands needs clear rules of the game; Canary Islands needs an economic and fiscal regime that is safe, that is attractive, that generates wealth; Canary Islands needs, ladies and gentlemen, today to take into account this proposal of law, which is the only thing that seeks to amend article 44 of Law 19/994 of 6 July, so that companies that aim at triangular operations will tax as a ZEC company. And it is very important that we take into account, ladies and gentlemen, the retroactive nature of the rule; it is fundamental. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of this data you will agree with me that losing a single job in the Canary Islands is a very high luxury. For today we are talking about 120 companies, which generate more than 1000 direct jobs and which I charge more than 130 million euros. I conclude, Madam President - because I see the timer in red - by telling you that today I have come here to invite each and every one of you to help us to stop being those second-rate citizens to whom this government has turned us. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Dominguez. To present the initiative, you have the floor, second, doña Rosa Elena Dávila Mamely.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u7	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we Canarian parliamentarians appear before this Congress through a rather unusual procedure: to defend the rights granted to us by a law passed in this Congress, the Canarian Economic and Fiscal Regime Act. That's our pretence today. It's a matter you already know, it's triangular trade. For more than 20 years, more than a hundred companies have been engaged in triangular trade or trading in the Canary Islands. A reinterpretation of the rule by the Ministry of Finance has left more than 800 jobs and more than 121 businesses in the air, creating legal uncertainty and acting against their own procedures. This, and the expectation of more than a year and a half by the Government of the Canary Islands that the ministry would clarify the situation of these companies, has led us to take this initiative, to reach Congress through a legislative initiative of the Canary Islands Parliament to respect the rights of the Canary Islands. How can you tell companies that were legitimately authorized, acting in accordance with the law, that a capricious interpretation leaves in the air, pending a thread, more than 800 jobs? But not only that, it is that this interpretation that has been made by the Government of Spain, by the Government of Pedro Sánchez, also leaves a huge shadow of legal uncertainty in companies that have established themselves with new activities in the Special Area of the Canary Islands. Ladies and gentlemen, the Canary Islands have been traders, and this figure comes from decades ago, more than twenty-one years within the Canary Islands Special Area, acting as they have been told. That is why it is fundamental at this time, following the refusal of the Ministry of Finance, that it be you, the representatives in the Congress of Deputies, who defend their law, because the Law of the Economic and Fiscal Regime is a law of the Congress of Deputies. All the autonomous communities have their singularities, all of them are unique, but the Canary Islands has requirements, requirements to be on an equal footing. They're not privileges, they're our rights. It's not gifts the government gives us. We cannot leave to the dawn of the interpretation of an inspector of Finance and the refusal of a government of Spain the economic diversification of the Canary Islands. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today three representatives of the Parliament of the Canary Islands are in the Congress of Deputies, to defend the rights of all canaries, because today it will be triangular trade -800 jobs, 121 companies - but tomorrow? Tomorrow can be in check the discount of residents in the Canary Islands. If we let the laws that are made in this Congress be interpreted, if we let the Government of Spain allow an interpretation to be made and not act immediately, generating that legal uncertainty, few companies will want to settle in the Canary Islands, little diversification will be possible in the Canary Islands. That is why today, ladies and gentlemen, we are the three representatives of the Parliament of the Canary Islands, because if the Canary Islands has any future, it will be on the basis that it is you who understand, defend and demand from here that the laws that you pass in this House be complied with, because you are the ones who have to protect the rights that protect us all from the Canary Islands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs. Dávila. Finally, to present the initiative, he has the word don José Ignacio Álvaro Lavandera.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u9	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to begin by expressing my appreciation to the Members of the Parliament of the Canary Islands who are unable to intervene today but who have worked in the Parliament of the Canary Islands to bring this initiative to this House. The proposal for a law that we present to you today is simple, but not less important for the interests of the development of the Canary Islands. We are talking about the figure of triangular trade in the Canary Islands, a figure contained in our Economic and Fiscal Regime; a rule that over the years has been fundamental to compensate for the remoteness and insularity of a land, ours, which needs incentives to attract economic activity. For the Canary Islands, it is a right to have unique rules that are capable of generating investment and employment, as well as a need to diversify our economy in an increasingly competitive global world. We do not ask for anything that is not justified and protected in our legal status as a outermost region. Having said that, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary, today more than ever, that I address you from the rigour and also from the demand. Since the rigor, because it has to be recognized that the activity of the triangular trade of goods bought and subsequently sold to third parties without going through canary territory has been questioned by the Inspection of Taxes in various minutes, before the report of 2021 of the Directorate General of Taxes mentioned. Since therigor, it should also be added that this activity has been taking place in the Special Area of the Canary Islands since 2000. From the point of view of rigour, it has to be made clear and to say that the Canary Islands cannot be allowed the reputational risk suffered, for example, by the Madeira Free Zone, also the outermost region, where the European Commission has forced Portugal to claim EUR 1 billion from 300 companies for considering its low taxation as illegal aid. That is why we believe that the rule needs to be improved - that the rule needs to be improved - and that the rules must be clear, coherent and compatible with Community law. From the point of view of rigour it must be said that the initiative we are debating today has already been adopted in large part by means of the Law on General State Budgets, a normative change which is reported unanimously by all the political forces present in the Parliament of the Canary Islands. Now let's go with the demand. The Socialist Party in the Canary Islands has always advocated dialogue as the best way of understanding, for the search for solutions, a demanding dialogue that has had positive results for the Canary Islands in this legislature, a dialogue between the Government of the Canary Islands and the Government of Spain that has been good for the Canary Islands, with results such as the resolution of the road debt conflict; the increase of the budgetary allocations corresponding to the Economic and Fiscal Regime in the budget law; the extraordinary funds that we have received to deal with the consequences of the pandemic or the La Palma volcano; the shielding of the differential of subsidies to the audiovisual sector. These results, despite the difficulties, are being transferred to the employment and welfare of the Canary Islands. Today we have more jobs than ever before and we are leading growth, after very difficult times in Spanish territory. But, in this context of demand, we also have the demand to defend, continuously improve and adapt our economic and fiscal regime, the demand to seek consensus, which has always been practiced by the Socialist Party in the Canary Islands around us, because a constructive attitude that transcends other interests is required. Canary Islands needs and will always need differential elements, not to be different, but to match with the rest of the Spanish territory in opportunities to generate wealth and employment, encouraging and attracting economic activities in a land that - I insist- because of its remoteness, fragmentation and market size requires special attention. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking, through this legislative initiative, to reduce the percentage of expenditure on the trading operation that is carried out in the Canary Islands, precisely to facilitate the creation of employment and wealth in the Canary Islands, something that I believe we can all share, and that the current rule has retroactive effects in order to give legal certainty to an activity that has actually been carried out for years in the Canary Islands. I end by thanking you, I am sure that today will also be a good day for the Canary Islands. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Alvaro. Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we are debating here today involves the survival of companies engaged in triangular trade, trade, and this is the umpteenth time I have come up to this rostrum to defend Canary rules, customs and regulations. In the last parliamentary term there have been too many times: compliance with our duty to transport goods, to improve air transport, to improve audiovisual services... And today, once again, despite the rules that we all give ourselves, rules that all the representative chambers of the citizenry adopt with a large majority and a broad consensus, suddenly, from day to day, a report with an interpretation of an official of a Madrid office turns to what we have been applying for twenty years and two hundred years defending. Ladies and gentlemen, this triangular trade, which sounds so difficult to understand, is commercial transactions in the sale of products and goods operated by three countries, and that can be done from anywhere. It does not have to be done fromCanarias, but Canarias managed, through its tools, to put on the map, managed to attract companies and quality employment for all the canaries. And for twenty years or more there has been an economic activity that generated quality employment - today, more than 750 jobs - that attracted 120 companies and, by an interpretation of someone who one day woke up and gave it away, all this is suddenly put in jeopardy, the rules of the game's immeasurable party are changed and not only triangular trade is put at risk, the whole ZEC area is put at risk, because if I'm a company and they do that to my neighbor, when will they do it to me? In fact, we have examples and I have named them. Ladies and gentlemen, we must begin to internalise that the Economic and Fiscal Regime, the Special Area of the Canary Islands, the CRP, are not privileges, they are not prebendas, they are tools to try to match us, to compete on equal terms with the rest of the peninsula. Ladies and gentlemen, I insist on employment and business data, because today still follows the speech that companies located in the ZEC area are a person and a computer, and that is not so; they are tools, and if you want to invest in the Canary Islands and get into the ZEC area, you invest in the Canary Islands, you create quality and stable employment. Isn't that what we're looking for, ladies and gentlemen? Surely we can say that, for the many and good tools we have and for the very good fiscal attractions we have, if we continue with this whirlwind of interpretations through the back door, dismantling historical ones, nor do we serve ourselves to attract and fix employment nor will it serve you in the discourse that these tools are only forebodies and privileges. This problem did not exist, it is a problem generated by the Socialist Party during its term of office. Since 2021 everything was wonderful, everyone knew what their tax system was, each company located in the ZEC area knew exactly what their tax system was. They create us a problem where there was no problem and they have us for a year turning around on an interpretation that has been applied for twenty years in a normal way and without any kind of problem. And we still have to thank you! I have listened attentively to comrade Lavendera say that audiovisuals had also been armored. Man, of course!, we have to shield them when someone sabotages them from behind us. But we wouldn't have to be shielding anything, it's the Economic and Fiscal Regime of the Canary Islands. I repeat, the Canary Coalition is engaged in a thousand battles and this was already seen to come. What did we do? Proposition of legislation in the Parliament of the Canary Islands and we started the legislative process. In the meantime, we have not let go of a single possibility of helping and fixing; one of them, the General Budgets of the State, and the amendment we are submitting, amendment that parties in the Canary Islands vote in favour here vote against it. And what does that leave us? An amendment that solves the problem in half. And what does that leave us? To have to continue with a legislative process that we could have saved ourselves if some of us here did not create a non-existent problem and others, accomplices in the Canary Islands, would talk to their party partners and solve it. That for some things we're too fast, but for others... Ladies and gentlemen, I know that both the REFC and the ZEC area and all these tools do not have to be used illegally, they cannot be abused, they have to be monitored, just like each and every one of the rights we have on the table. We have an obligation, both as a government and as parliamentarians and parliamentarians, to ensure that these tools are used for the proper purpose, which is to generate employment in the Canary Islands and not to be misused by those who may be enriched on the basis of tax benefits. And this reform that we bring here fulfills these two objectives: it fulfills the objective of protecting a tool that serves what is made, and to shield it, so that one does not rise tomorrow in a finance office saying: look, where we have been saying this, today we are going to say this another, and 700 jobs depending on a thread. Because, as I told you right from the start, this triangular trade can be done from any location. Canaries, with effort and sacrifice, managed to get on the map and set employment, and this is just an example of how there is a lack of understanding of the situation in Canaries. I tell you more, every time a canary law is violated, every time a canary tool is questioned or interpreted differently, the social and economic gap between those living here, in the Peninsula, and those living there, in the Canary Islands is widened. This is not simply an approval to take into account a proposal for a law; they have the duty and obligation not to keep this in a drawer and to process it through the urgency procedure. It is not worth voting here today in favour of consideration and seeing ourselves another year later with the same problem. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Canarian Parliament and to express, on behalf of my group, all our grief and solidarity with the Turkish people and the Syrian people at these terrible times. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as we have been told today, this bill by the Parliament of the Canary Islands calls for an amendment to Act No. 19/1994 of 6 July 1994 amending the Canary Islands' economic and fiscal system, in particular Article 44(1)(a). It seems to us to us that this request for legal amendment from the Canarian legislature is absolutely appropriate and that is why we will support it with our Latoma vote in view of this proposal for a law. In addition, we will do so with the conviction, as expressed by Citizens in the Canary Islands, that this will respect, consolidate and strengthen a special tax regime, which has been recognized by the Spanish Constitution and by the European Union's rules our island and peripheral territory. What are we really talking about when we talk about the need to amend this specific article of the 1994 Act, the rule governing the economic and fiscal regime in the Canary Islands? It's simple. We are talking, above all, about giving legal certainty to a regime that has been applied in the islands, as we know in a special way, precisely because of the speciality of the geographical situation in the Canary Islands and because of the disadvantage of its situation of insularity and peripherality in terms of economic and social development vis-à-vis the European continent, which is politically and administratively part of it. We are talking about ensuring fully with the law - and therefore with regard to nature and its legal consequences - an activity that has developed, as has been said, for more than twenty years in the Canary Islands, such as that of triangular trade, that is, trading in the international market from the Canary Islands with goods that do not physically pass through the archipelago. It is, as I say, an activity registered and authorized in the consortium of the Special Area of the Canary Islands since 2000, an activity that has already been developed by more than 120 companies, which have given jobs to between five hundred and a thousand people on the islands and has generated a turnover of more than 150 million euros. An activity, that of triangular trade or trading, which until 2021 did not pose at all any problem to be considered as perfectly legal and regular in the field of the ZEC and the application of the economic and fiscal regime of the islands. Because the uncertainty and lack of security here appear from the interpretation that the Ministry of Finance, through the General Directorate of State Taxes, makes of this activity and from the application of this special canary regime when the goods subject to wholesale trade do not physically pass through the Canary Islands. This lack of legal certainty by an interpretation of the tax administration makes this legal change necessary in order to restore the previous situation, which has been taking place since 2000, which has been carried out normally since that year in this sector. It is, therefore, a matter for us - and that is why we think it is perfectly appropriate for this legal change that we are asked to do from the Canary Islands - to clarify and black out the conditions and criteria under which trading or triangular trade activity can be regarded as a regular commercial activity fully covered by the economic and fiscal rules of the Canary Islands. In short, it is a question of correcting the rule and improving it in order to avoid interpretations that may arise by an excessively ambiguous or unclear text. But it is indeed, as has also been said, not to open in any way the door to turning the Canary Islands into a territory outside the Spanish and European fiscal rules, to the principles of transparency and accountability proper to our system, even with all the particularities that the island and peripheral situation of the Canary Islands require. From this point of view, in Citizens we bet to clarify the rule applicable from the special canary regime to triangular trade, but we also bet to demand and control scrupulous compliance with the rule to avoid deviations that result from tax havens, irregular activities or alleged irregular or illegal financing of illicit activities. This is why we also aim to strengthen the controls of the tax authorities and the ZEC's own consortium on this type of activity. Let's not forget one thing. The special canary economic regime is designed to boost the establishment of enterprises in the Canary Islands, but not only that, but also, and above all, for those enterprises to generate economy, essentially in terms of employment and investment. That is why this legal change, which we support today from the liberal seats of this Congress, will always be conditioned by our vote as a generation of employment and the arrival of real investments in the Canary Islands. In a word, to the greater benefit of the Canary Islands and for their economic and social development on the islands. In Citizens we do not bet on any triangular trade, but on good triangular trade in line with European and Spanish rules which signal and expel possible bad or abusive practices because they do not comply with the principles of international trade. We therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is indeed necessary to provide legal certainty to those in the Canary Islands who have companies that invest and create jobs on their land or to those from other places who have established themselves in the islands to work, invest and create that much-needed job for the Canary Islands. That legal certainty must be given with this legal reform which we are dealing with today, but it must be done by ensuring good business practices and respect for fiscal legality, and we therefore consider it appropriate to take the precautionary measures already taken in the text proposed by the Canarian Parliament. The question now to the Ministry of Finance is whether it is going to object to the application of this amendment to companies which have always complied with the conditions laid down since being registered as authorised companies with the managing consortium of the ZEC. The question is relevant because this Government has not solved a problem generated in July 2021 and has put many Canary companies in check that have remained in absolute insecurity and that have been waiting for a solution, companies with investments and jobs that cannot continue to wait, that have been waiting for this solution for a long time and that they demand, above all, security in the face of a problem generated by this Government and that this Government, almost years later, remains unresolved. Canary Islands needs a solution and it's time to give it. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u14	Thank you very much, Mr López-Bas. Mrs López Domínguez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u15	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome also, ladies and gentlemen of the Canarian Parliament. The Confederal Group of the European People's Party and of the European People's Party agree with the speakers we have had an opportunity to hear during the course of the debate on the need to defend the economic and fiscal system of the Canary Islands. As already mentioned, the island characteristics of the Canary Islands, as well as their social reality, their high levels of poverty, their low levels of employment and, above all, social inequalities call for the use of the tax mechanisms available to improve the quality of life of all people. Ladies and gentlemen, on several occasions you have heard a number of speakers from the Confederal Group of the European People's Party defend what a good tax system must be. A good tax system has to be at the service of people. We must use the tax system to reduce social inequalities, increase the well-being of the population, increase and guarantee access to health, culture and knowledge for all, regardless of our social origin, economic resources or other personal characteristics. We have also repeated on several occasions that the use of the tax system is necessary to reverse the climate emergency. We must discourage the practices of some businesses and consumer habits that are totally harmful to our planet; not only to our planet, but also - and consequently - to the survival of the human race. Furthermore, in the present case, this proposal for a law submitted by the Parliament of the Canary Islands to amend Article 44 of Law 19/1994, amending the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands, has also been able to hear on a number of occasions the institutional representatives - both in this forum, in commissions of this house, and in the Parliament of the Canary Islands - how we called for an amendment of the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands to be in the service of the majority of the population and not only in the service of a few large companies. Today, once again, we use this forum to contribute this approach to the use of tax mechanisms adapted to idiosyncrasiacanaria. The Canary Islands' special regime - we have said it many times - must be designed to increase the social return of the tax discharge which involves genuine diversification of thecanary economy, with a clear commitment to renewable energies, the reduction of energy and economic dependence, the reversal of environmental deterioration, the eradication of poverty, the creation of quality jobs and the reduction of the differential with the peninsula in employment data, which, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, is much more worrying among the female population. In short, the available mechanisms must be used and improved so that the vast majority of people in the Canary Islands can live their daily lives better. On the first of the aspects proposed by this proposal for a law, the reinclusion of companies in the Special Area of the Canary Islands engaged in triangular trade activities - the reinclusion among those likely to benefit from the reduction of corporation tax - is widely known the position of this parliamentary group because it lacks the meaning of a productive economy and because it falls into the danger of elusive practices or related to tax havens. However, this amendment no longer makes any sense to be discussed because it was already introduced by the Law on General Budgets of the State for the present year 2023. However, the amendment, which is in force, to the corresponding Article provides for the limitation of the inclusion of these undertakings to 90 % of their resources in the Canary Islands. The amendment we are debating today represents a 50% reduction. The Confederal Group of the United Nations We can, as it cannot be otherwise, and as we have already said on other occasions, question why this proposed change in approach. We also believe that it is not sufficiently well-argued; indeed, a servant came to this debate today in the hope that previous speakers would shed some light on why this change of requirements and even despite the solemnity of this house there has been no explanation. This proposal, therefore, cannot in any way be supported by this parliamentary group. We appreciate, as always, the initiatives that come from the parliaments of the autonomous communities but, as we have always defended, the decisions that this House takes must put at the centre the values of social justice and not just the sharing of benefits among a few rich. Thank you very much and a very affectionate greeting to the companions of the Canary Islands. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lopez. Mr Rodríguez Almeida has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. We take into account this regulatory amendment to the Canary Islands Economic and Fiscal System, in particular the Canary Islands Special Area. The first conclusion is that our Economic and Fiscal System does not work and does not work for various reasons. The first is because we are not able to provide legal certainty to that potential investor we want to attract and it is largely the fault of the legislators. This article, which is being amended today, has already been amended seven times. As you will understand, this change is still not the right framework for making investments. Moreover - the spokesman of Podemos has said right now - it seems that no one wanted to shed light on the necessity of this normative amendment and I will enlighten them accordingly. And, Mr Dominguez, I have to correct you, because you have also been corrected by all those who have spoken or intervened after you and the very explanatory statement of the rule. You said the inspectors only apply the law, they don't interpret it. It is not true, it is a concept of basic tax law that inspectors have a tool called qualifier autonomy and of course they interpret the norm. [[Applauds]] This is clearly stated by the demotive exposure, and I read it very quickly. This new interpretation - referring to the tax inspection criterion - has generated a lot of uncertainty between all the companies operating in the ZEC and its advisers, since it modifies a consolidated criterion for almost twenty years, moving away from the doctrine of the acts proper to the Administration and from the legitimate confidence created in the suitability of the returns obtained in the operations to benefit from the reduced rate. Therefore, the problem lies with the Tax Inspectorate. Because - this is an issue that has not been discussed and this is where I come to bring the light - you cannot have a tax regulation that goes on the one hand and an inspection criterion that goes completely on the other. This would be as absurd as selling a car to buy petrol or, to make it better understood by your Lordships of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, it is as absurd as buying a train that does not fit through the tunnel by what it has to pass. [[Applauds]] The inspection criterion must be accompanied by tax rules. And why isn't it today? This is one thing in which the People's Party, with Minister Montoro, and later and now the PSOE, with Minister Montero, have been first turned. Incentives, the way in which inspectors are being remunerated, are absolutely opaque. The National High Court, the Central Social Court number 4, in July last year forced the Ministry of Finance to communicate how it is paying the inspectors, because I don't know if they know that the inspectors are being paid regardless of the outcome of the winding-up that they are doing; that is, even if they are not properly adjusted and even if justice takes away their reason - and it takes away much of the reason, not a little, but up to 50% of the time - the inspectors have already paid that commission, that bonus. This is a real nonsense, nonsense that - I insist - began the People's Party with Minister Montoro and that continues the PSOE with Minister Montero. [[applause]] Looks like we can't just understand this triangular trade thing. I get it. I understand that because they do have another economic model. I understand that if the paradigm is Cuba and North Korea, this cannot be interpreted. On the other hand, I am surprised by their sensitivity to tax havens. We are not talking at all about a tax haven, and a paragraph has been added, which I think is very appropriate to this rule, regarding regimes that do not cooperate with the Spanish Tax Inspectorate, but why do they not show the same sensitivity with something that is very close, on Spanish soil, which is the case with Gibraltar? [[Applauds]] Of course Gibraltar does not cooperate with Spain; however, none of these parties - neither PP nor PSOE nor Podemos in the government coalition - has protested about it. Mr Dominguez - I say it very quickly - I was surprised that you spoke here about our people, about our land. I think he forgets that the Spanish nation is unique and indivisible. There is only one nation, which is that of all Spaniards, and you cannot forget, as enshrined in Article 2 of our Constitution, which represents all Spaniards who live, visit or work in Spain. [[Applauds]] Because it seems that the People's Party is affecting so many years of government in coalition with nationalist parties, such as the Canary Islands Coalition. I didn't have it prepared, but I'm going to read to you the same thing I read to the nationalist Mr Quevedo, who, although he's no longer here, I think he's really illuminating the situation or he's doing very well. These are the words of Benito Pérez Galdós in the presentation of a book, here in Madrid, on December 9, 1900, addressing some peasants: You have seen that the time has come to revive in our souls the love of patriarchy to ignite the love of the great. In us lives and the Spanish soul will always live. We the most distant are the closest in the heart of the homeland. I end by sharing the joy with all of you that very briefly, on 28 May, this situation in the Parliament of the Canary Islands, where we see that neither socialism nor nationalism will be fought, will change. We have a great candidate, Nicasio Galván, and he will represent all the Spaniards, because it is time for VOX. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Mrs Zurita Exposito has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Very good afternoon, everyone. And a very special greeting to the Members of the Parliament of the Canary Islands, who are here today defending this initiative. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, that you do not have representation in the Parliament of the Canary Islands does not mean that others cannot talk about our land. [[Several Members of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress: All right!-Applause]] Today we are discussing one more amendment of our Economic and Fiscal System, one more that has to do with our Special Area Canary, which was created, among other things, to bring investment to the Canary Islands under competitive conditions and meeting a number of requirements so that they could have a specific tax of 4%, but the government of the nation doesn't care. Because they're not so clumsy I don't understand, it's just that they don't care. Canarian Members - all of us - have had to work, we have had to fight from the minute one of this social communist government issues that are by law ours, such as that 75% bonus when Ábalos joins as minister, and that is included in our REF. Investments in the Canary Islands, which could under no circumstances be below the national average; aid for the desalination of water; recently, incentives for cinematographic productions or which respect our low-tribulation instruments, such as the Canary Islands Special Area. All companies engaged in triangular trade now have to pay a 25 % rate instead of the 4 % they would have to pay. There are 120 companies that are continuously exposed to tax inspections, and now to regularising the last four years. Moreover, what should be a tax regime that favors our economy is making it, like everything else, a source of legal uncertainty, a constant persecution of our businesses and our self-employed by the Tax Agency. And I wonder: What does the Sánchez government want to do with the Canary Islands? Measures that make no sense were extended with COVID, measures that are becoming life-threatening, such as housing-related measures, which cause side effects of market restriction. And then a system of aid with conditions so lionine that they do not reach people or with amounts that are also insufficient. Everything is mere propaganda, and measures are taken for all of Spain except for the Canary Islands. Our star measures to create growth, employment and competitive conditions for our companies are charged and this triangular trade activity allows us to establish on the islands interesting synergies that generate new business activities and possibilities, high-paying jobs, and places us on the map as an interesting hub, different from tourism. And it has to be a complementary activity, because that is what it is about, to diversify our economy. The importance of this decision to be taken today in the Congress of Deputies is fundamental for the Canary Islands for two main reasons. The first has to do with the reality of the ZEC, at the moment as a low-tax area which is in constant competition with other low-tax areas in Europe. And I am not talking about tax havens; I am talking about low-tax areas within the European Union, such as Luxembourg and Ireland. The second essential, because it has to do with our reputation as a country, and it affects not only the Canary Islands, but in general the whole nation. Why? Because it defines us as a society; it defines how we are and the value we give to our standards. Esdecir, a national public body, such as the Patronate of the Special Area of the Canary Islands, which train it professionals, the Tax Agency itself, the Government of the Canary Islands and the Ministry of Finance, decides, supervised according to law, to offer and define as valid to operate within the ZEC zone a business model, triangular trade, within the legal umbrella of low taxation of the Special Area of the Canary Islands. But the government makes it unviable - unviable - and creates enormous uncertainty, and we all know that uncertainty is the worst enemy of the economy. The solution, ladies and gentlemen, is the adaptation of our economic and fiscal regime, but not so. And the government is not going there; the government wants to beat the record of collection and more now, aggravated by inflation, it severely penalises the Spaniards. I give you examples of what the government wants, examples of what those coalitions out there want, of the PSOE and of the Unidad Podemos. I live in La Laguna, a municipality that has been paralysed since three legislatures because there have been no courageous governments that have pulled our economy out. There, as in the nation, rules the PSOE with Podemos and is an absolute replica of what happens here. And I wonder: Have they put in place any measures in La Laguna that encourage the creation of competitive companies? None. Is there a tax reduction for business creation and economic activity? None. Is there any mechanism for companies to be set up in La Laguna, in some areas of the municipality, and for creating jobs and providing a granite of sand for our young people to emancipate? None. What do you offer there, then? Well, look, what the PSOE-Uniteds brand offers We can, that boast of things, as before yesterday, is an increase in the budget - by the way, they have not approved it - for social aid of 84% compared to 2020. And what do we want? It is clear that caring for vulnerable families is a priority. But we want something more, and it is that 84% more jobs would have been generated, that 84% more businesses would have been established in the municipality, that we would have grown 84% more. And this is achieved in La Laguna and in all the municipalities of Canarias by approving what we bring here today. Let this Government stop constantly manipulating our tax system, which we are rightfully fighting for. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs. Zurita. For the Socialist Group, Mrs Raya Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u21	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I would like to convey the greetings of my group, the Socialist Group, to the President of the Parliament of the Canary Islands and to the Members who are accompanying us today. Welcome. I'm on it. I would like to stress that what we are discussing in this House today is part of a broad consensus that comes from the Parliament of the Canary Islands, although, after hearing some speeches, it seems impossible to us. There are those who are committed to taking ownership of an instrument as important as our Economic and Fiscal Regime, which belongs not to any party, but to the citizens as a whole. And it is that the REF is an instrument that equals us with the rest of the territory, not our differences; it is an element of cohesion, it is an element of territorial sustainability. And it is this government, presided over by Pedro Sánchez, that has done the most, by contrast, with ours, ever since a quiet dialogue with the Government of the Canary Islands, presided over by Ángel Víctor Torres. [[applause]] The Canarian Socialists are convinced that the way to do this is to work together to defend the interests of the Canarian citizen, solving problems that have not been caused on many occasions by the governments that are at present, but which, however, has been up to us to correct and repair, as has already happened with the road agreement and as has also happened with the improvement of audiovisual deduction, because, ladies and gentlemen, you maintained the differential in 17 and 18, and this government corrected it by 80% for the Canaries, regardless of what the peninsular territory has. [[Applauds]] We also did it with air transport. It must be remembered that it was a government of the People's Party, through an agreement with the Canarian nationalist forces - the Canary and New Canaries Coalition, especially New Canaries - that pushed 75% of the budget, and you did not collect it. It was Minister Ábalos who solved it. You have a very short-term memory and for what you are interested in. And now it's up to us to solve triangular operations, because - let's not be fooled, ladies and gentlemen - all of us here know that this problem has come to fruition since before 2018, and no one has done anything. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you know as well as I that the Directorate-General for Taxes was already studying this subject when you were in the government. We have, once again, been the ones who have arranged it, with the Budget Act of 2023. We will not deny that improvements can be made, but the reality is that, today, triangular operations in the ZEC can be accommodated at a reduced rate of 4%. Don't try to cheat. You know - if you do not know it is even more worrying, especially because many of you, as you have seen today, aspire to political responsibilities in the Canary Islands - that the final seventh provision of the Budget Act already recognizes the amendment of Law 19/94, that is to say the REF, with indefinite effect. Don't fool yourself by saying you're going to take the ZEC ahead. It is not 50%, as they have said recently, that there are less than 20 companies, of the 730 of the ZEC, those that are dedicated only to this and are minority - less than 120 - those that are engaged in this activity, less than half of the companies of the ZEC. But whatever it is, the PSOE has fixed the problem, and we defend it. Lying, ladies and gentlemen, does not help to defend our fury. The consequences of doing headline politics can be terrible. They can result in a loss of credibility and investment attraction. If those of us who question the REF, instead of fixing it, are the Canary Islands and Canary Islands, little favor do to the REF and the reputation of the Canary Islands with these allegations. What needs to be done is to fix it in a technical way, which is precisely what we have done. Ladies and gentlemen, the legal uncertainty of the REF is no greater than that of another tax instrument. Insecurities are generated by you. And it is you who are trying to drive away sectors that have nothing to do with triangular trade, questioning the very existence and continuity of the Special Area of the Canary Islands. We are aware - I am sure that we share it - of the need that our land has - yes, our land, Mr de VOX - that it has our economy and that it has a society to bet on a model that diversifies, that does not depend exclusively on the tourism sector, because we have already lived and suffered the terrible consequences of this with the pandemic. And thanks to this government of progress and the sensitivity with Canarias there was no chaos in workers, companies and, above all, families. I think these instruments are a good opportunity for our land. From this rostrum I appeal to responsibility. Let's stop using the Canary Islands and our singularities for partisan interests, because I know, Your Honor, we've only got one thing: getting more and more away from citizenship. We do not fall into the temptation to draw always a catastrophic portrait of the Canary Islands. Let us try to reach, as public servants, agreements and consensus for a better Canary Islands. Believe me, it's possible. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs. Raya. Thank you again, Mr Domínguez, Mrs Dávila, Mr Álvaro. This concludes the debate on your initiative. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u23	We continue with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, to amend Law 30/2014 of 13 December on National Parks, on the precise measures to adapt the situation of existing national parks to the legal purposes linked to the declaration. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Sánchez Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u24	Thank you very much, Madam President. I want my first words to remind me that it was in 1918 when the first national park was declared in Spain: the Covadonga National Park. Sixteen national parks have been set up in our country for more than a hundred years. [[The Lord]] Each and every one of them has been set in motion at a historical moment, in which a different social and economic context was taking place, and at the same time they have been set in motion at a time when conservation was conceived in a different way, today with far more ambition than ever before. We cannot forget that many of these national parks have declared themselves on territories where the interaction between the human being and the prey and its natural ecosystem was part of reality. This highlights the importance that the role of man in the conservation and protection of natural ecosystems has played throughout history. During all these years society has changed and, consequently, the natural environment has also experienced changes that have required greater attention from public administrations and society. It was in 2014 when we took an important step in our country in the defense, protection and conservation of our natural spaces, which are the most precious spaces, the jewel of the crown, the national parks. I want to highlight the exceptional work done by the minister at that time by Isabel García Tejerina, who, together with her team and with dialogue and consensus among the agents concerned, managed to set up a law capable of responding to many of the problems and challenges that our national parks had at that time. [[Applauds]] I would also like to show my respect and admiration for all the people and institutions that have been involved throughout history in the protection and dissemination of our national parks, such as scientists, guards, environmentalists, shepherds, hunters, officials, journalists and neighbours of those villages. It was a law that granted ordinary management, management bodies and planning to the autonomous communities, assuming the State the elaboration and approval of the master plans, as well as the coordination of the National Parks Network of Spain. It was a law that, from intelligence, promoted the possibility of sustainable economic programmes, aimed not only to protect and conserve our most precious natural environments, but also to generate sustainable economies and green jobs, giving not only environmental but also social and economic value to national parks, and thus achieving sustainable spaces. It was a law in line with what has always characterized the People's Party, which carries in its DNA the rural world and the Spain of the peoples: working for the social and territorial cohesion of our country. It has been a few years and today the People's Parliamentary Group brings this bill, because we understand that the Government of Spain is not doing well, in particular the ministry headed by Vice President Teresa Ribera. Years after the seventh additional provision of the current law, which granted the Administration a period of six years for the implementation of actions that would allow for good management of the national parks in Spain, we can say that the socialist government has not complied; it is characterized in this matter by inaction and abandonment. The Government has limited itself to attacking the cinegetic activities and private owners of the national parks, to abandoning municipalities in rural Spain that need economic activities for their survival and to avoiding the exodus to the city and to abandoning to their fate the peoples of inland Spain. The Government has failed to comply with the law, has not spoken to anyone to comply with the agreements, with voluntary expropriations and with the forced ones and has failed to avoid the environmental and economic drama that is taking place in rural Spain, especially in the municipalities and towns affected by the national parks in Spain. Therefore, if there is a word that can summarize the policy of the Socialist Government in this matter, it is - I insist - that of abandonment. [[Applauds]] The purpose of this proposal is nothing but to reflect on the needs of our national parks from a calm, responsible analysis and being aware that today there is a real problem in the management of the national parks in Spain. And I will try to give some examples that show that this bill is not only timely, but also necessary. The first example I'm going to refer to is Cabañeros National Park. In Cabañeros there is evidence of poor management and abandonment by responsible public administrations. Firstly, because the autonomous government of Castile-La Mancha, Mr Page, has been constantly deceiving all the citizens of Castile-La Mancha over the last few years. [[Applauds]] Secondly, because of the anomalous situation that is being perpetuated by the lack of management skills in the national parks in our country, such as the Cabañeros National Park and the autonomous government. It has been more than a year and a half since Mr. Page, meeting with Vice President Teresa Ribera, announced that he assumed responsibility for the management of the Cabañeros National Park, and today the Cabañeros National Park remains unmanaged by the autonomous government of Castilla-La Mancha. It is a national park that has a problem, that of the high densities of certain animals, as well known by all, with a negative impact, because it can endanger the conservation of different species of flora and fauna, as many reports indicate. The biodiversity of the national park is also being put at risk. In addition, the economy of many municipalities is being irreparablely damaged, not to mention the economic damage that is being caused to the owners of the private farms included in the national park. They have been prevented from taking advantage of the plant and are now being held accountable for the environmental problems of the national park. It is an economic damage that has an impact on the entire economy of the area, as private owners cannot maintain the jobs they had previously maintained. This highlights the lack of governance and the total and absolute abandonment by the Spanish Government in environmental matters and in relation to national parks. First of all, we wonder why Mr. Page has not yet taken over the management of the Cabañeros National Park and, secondly, why, having not done so, Mr. Page has not taken over the responsibility of the Government of Spain and, in particular, the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge, which does not listen to the owners, does not dialogue with the owners and does not reach agreements with the owners, which leads to the absolute abandonment of the Cabañeros National Park. But we also wonder how it is possible for the left to demonize kinegetic activities every day and yet when it now sees that its own inaction and abandonment have aggravated the problems of overpopulation of some species urgently and without planning the involvement of hunters. And it is that after banning hunting in this space just over a year ago, the Administration claimed last year that a frenetic activity was carried out in the farms, with almost five thousand cattle to be slaughtered in just twenty-eight days last February. It is a clear example of a lack of coherence and wisdom. This problem of overpopulation of certain species not only affects the Cabañeros National Park, it also affects other national parks in Spain, such as the Monfragüe National Park. I would like to recall that it has recently suffered a major fire, as shown by the Friends of Monfragüe association, a result of the lack of investment by the Socialist Government of Extremadura and the Government of Spain in technical material and human capital to prevent and extinguish fires. In both cases, the universities of Extremadura and Castilla-La Mancha have shown the poor management by the public administrations - in this case, the autonomous ones and those of the Government of Spain - and the environmental, economic and social damage that is being generated by this inaction of the Government of Spain and of the autonomous communities themselves. They are not complying with the law, nor with their word, nor with their commitments. We are faced with a ministry that does not listen, as we have seen with water, where it makes discretionary decisions, without listening absolutely to anyone, attacking the productive sectors, such as, for example, the Spanish Levant, causing irreparable damage and without giving absolutely any alternative, for example, to the more than 100,000 families living from agriculture in the province of Alicante, not to mention tourism or industry - as you know, I speak of Tago-Segura -, by attacking them with the plastic tax; companies still do not know how they have to liquidate the tax, or what will happen with imported plastics or what happens if those plastics come from outside the Community. What appears to have been a good explanation on the part of the Government is the sanctioning regime. This is how this socialist government works: taxes, more taxes, new taxes, decrees, impositions and persecution of everyone who generates wealth in our country. By the way, the People's Parliamentary Group has put forward numerous initiatives to ensure that the plastic tax is not implemented in 2023 and we can continue to avoid inflation and the increase in the prices of the shopping basket in our country, an issue which is not less, but which, however, seems to matter little or nothing to the Socialist Government or to the Members of the Socialist Group in this House. [[applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Parliamentary Group is presenting this bill so that we can continue to have spaces and time to reflect on the problems that are happening to national parks in our country today, so that we can make sense, so that we can bring coherence and responsibility to the management of national parks and so that we can realize that we cannot abandon them to their fate with this new policy of the fundamentalist and ecological left, which says that nature must be left to its fate and that the human being - man and woman - need not be part of the management of the forest world or the environment in general. In short, it is an initiative to give public administrations more opportunity to fulfil their obligations, also to the public administrations of the Socialist Party in Castilla-La Mancha and Extremadura, which are not fulfilling their obligations, which are not complying with the law and which are abandoning national parks, in particular Cabañeros and Monfragüe. We have to be aware that Spain has a problem, and that there is a part of Spain that is emptied for lack of opportunities. We've had this summer the worst summer in our history of fires. We know that fires often come from abandonment, they come because there is no activity, they come because the human being goes to the city. We want, on this initiative, that the administrations correct an error...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u25	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u26	... of the Socialist Government, in particular the Socialist Governments of Castile-La Mancha and Extremadura. We want the rest of Spain's national parks to also have an orderly, coherent and responsible management, which is what they deserve. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u27	Thank you. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Allow me to pay a very sensible tribute to Professor Juan Velarde Fuertes, an eminent economist and tireless worker, who passed away last week. [[Applauds]] Rest in peace this extraordinary Spanish, whose wisdom also left eternal signs in its many publications and writings, as well as in the Journal of Sessions of the Congress of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative by the People's Parliamentary Group will enable us to address several of the most pressing problems relating to human activity in national parks and resolve collateral damage to their management. It is a very improved management in some cases, as I have already warned in the veto that I presented in the Senate during the processing and debate of the law in 2014, a text that eight years after its publication has not stopped the impoverishment or depopulation of territories that, paradoxically, have lived secularly from the activity in which they are now protected, preserved and cared for precisely thanks to human activity. As you all know, I come from Asturias, an autonomous community that shares, together with Cantabria and Castile and León, the more than 67,000 hectares of the National Park of Picos de Europa, which, as has already been recalled, was the first of the declared in Spain, more than a century ago, and which maintains a very unique characteristic: it is the only national park in which there are population centres. Its inhabitants are the ones who have inherited, for the enjoyment of the generations of the present and the future, an extraordinary environmental, socio-economic and landscape richness, the fruit of the protection, the defense and the conservation of nature. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2023, the great endangered species of European Picos is the human being, because the neighbours of its twenty populations are the victims of a predatory bureaucracy that threatens their survival and the continuity of their traditional agro-farming activities, as well as others derived from the primary sector, such as the artisanal production of cheeses. Hence the significance of this parliamentary initiative, which, while emphasising the impact of hunting and fishing activities on national parks, is also an opportunity for the Courts-General to act in favour of the areas of socio-economic influence of the sixteen territories with this figure of protection and, ultimately, of an increasingly unassisted and unpopulated rural environment. Ladies and gentlemen, different research studies already carried out by the Autonomous National Parks Agency show a growing discomfort with the regulatory excess and the regulatory limitations around our main protected spaces, as well as great obstacles to obtaining legitimate exploitation derived from the activities of the populations, both within them and in their area of influence. Adequate compensation is also claimed for the loss of income from hunting, as well as improved infrastructure, sanitation and clean-up for rural municipalities linked to natural parks, which have a very complicated burden on visitors to attend and which are already under-resourced by the affected villages. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative amendments tabled by Mr Sánchez Pérez relate to kinegetic activity and fishing in these areas which have special protection. It is obvious, look where it is looked at, that prohibitionism has had very harmful and contrary effects to those planned from the comfortable ministerial offices, introducing totalitarian measures of control and false ecologicalism. Today in Picos de Europa there is a large contagion of sarna among the herds that threatens the sheep and goats; herds of wolves are dangerously bellowing to their wide, decimating cattle, and there is also a proliferation of ungulates. Recently, in other national parks, such as Cabañeros, in Castile - La Mancha, the Government has had to improvise catch plans in the face of overpopulation of species such as deer or wild boar. Speaking of prohibition and kinegetic restriction in national parks and their socio-economic areas of influence, I would like to point out the exasperating slowness of the administration in establishing compensation for the loss of economic profitability of the sites concerned. I would also like to point out specifically the negative environmental impacts that the decisions of the Minister of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge, Teresa Ribera - five and a half years in office - have had, both because of her fundamentalism against hunting and fishing and because of the imposition of measures and the inclusion of the wolf in the LESPRE, for the desperation of farmers and their families. Also for this sector vital for the rural environment, the trajectory and decisions of the third vice president have been harmful, just as the disregard for the locals and their age-old wisdom in the care of nature is unacceptable. Ultimately, it is key that kinegetic activity and fishing are facilitated and that sectors, communities and peoples with protected spaces are stopped from being demonized so that they can have instruments to revalue the territories, rather than sharpen their depopulation due to lack of economic and social activity. Unfortunately, the bad example of the Government of the State has also been reproduced in the autonomous communities, whose environmental competences have aggravated problems rather than solved them - see again the Principality -. Therefore, in favour of hunters and fishermen, whose zeal and protection of nature made possible the conservation of emblematic species, and in defence of the shepherds, herders and other neighbours of the national parks, there is an urgent legislative amendment along the lines proposed here by the People's Parliamentary Group. That is why I voted in favour. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u29	Thank you very much. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u30	Thank you, President. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, that you have brought here a proposal of law somewhat liosa or somewhat incongruent, which my group has not just understood. First, because it is a 2020 proposal that has not even changed better than the 2014 National Parks Act, since in its explanatory statement the six-year moratorium on hunting and fishing in national parks expired on 5 December 2020 and we are already in 2023. To date, the Administration has not reached any agreement with the owners of the land affected by this prohibition, and they say that the provisions laid down in the law have not been resolved, but, as I have said, we are in 2023. Therefore, the provision that left in suspense articles 6 and 7 of the National Parks Act, which stated, among other issues, that kinegetic activity is incompatible with the conservation objectives of these areas, was completed in December 2020 and therefore the prohibition of commercial and sporting hunting in the network of national parks, among other activities, became effective. They also complain that the Administration has not reached any agreement with the owners of the land affected by this prohibition and that they have therefore not resolved the provisions laid down in the law; that is, there are no voluntary agreements, compensations or expropriations referred to in the law. However, they only request a new moratorium for a period, at best, of nine or ten months. We do not know whether this is a mistake on your part because that proposal is out of date, because in the initial suredation a three-year moratorium was called for in the year 2020, and because, as you point out, no agreement has been reached with the owners in eight years, so it seems somewhat optimistic that in ten months these agreements will be reached. But it is also true that the Government here has not been very diligent because, on the one hand, while the Autonomous National Parks Agency has reached voluntary compensation agreements in some parks, such as the dePicos de Europe, where some municipalities were the owners, there are still parks such as Tablas de Daimiel or Cabañeros in which no agreement has been reached between the parties. It should also be said that in the Park of Cabañeros - the lordship of the People's Group has also said - despite the ban on hunting, National Parks authorized the hunting of a certain number of animals in private farms due to overpopulation in the area, but the owners refused. It is that, in the absence of such agreements, the owners are hardly going to carry out the measures of population control, which have an economic cost, without being compensated by anyone. What is clear is that the law prohibits certain activities in national parks, but we also understand that they must be managed and operated on a daily basis in the territories where they are located, and we do not believe that this proposal is the right way to do so. It is logical, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that if you knew or were aware of this problem you would have promoted, at least before the competent administrations, the approval of the agreements to bring the situation of all national parks into line with the determinations of the law before the end of that six-year moratorium, i.e. in 2020 or, rather, at the time when the situation of 'in transit' ended, because this was the law, to offer a transit time to bring the law into line with the prohibition of certain activities, including hunting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, you are bringing us here today a proposal that is certainly not up to date, and I think it is not a good thing for those who are supposed to be trying to help or defend. Do you really believe that it makes sense to return to a kind of moratorium when hunting in national parks has been banned for more than two years? Do you intend to reopen a prohibited activity for two years, and to, at best, as you propose, eight or nine months? Because you only talk about hunting in the proposition. I understand that they do this because it's going to give them a series of electoral returns. But the truth is that you propose to lift not only the ban on hunting in natural parks, but also the rest of the activities set out in Article 7.3 of the National Parks Act, such as recreational sport fishing, mining and mining of hydrocarbons, arid and quarries, hydropower exploitation, among others. We do not understand this proposition of law in substance but, of course, much less in form. It is not a question of turning back, but we do ask the Government to reach these agreements as soon as possible in order to be able to carry out optimal management of the parks, at least in terms of population control, because the data available indicate that the animal population in recent years has doubled, and this can lead to management problems. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u31	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, without precedent, or yes, I practically share almost everything that the PNV Group has said by Mrs Sagastizabal's mouth. Mr Sánchez, we do not really understand in the Citizens' Group what the opportunity is or what the will is to bring this bill to debate and vote at this time. We do not understand it, except that you have somehow guessed that VOX is taking away some sort of vote between hunters and fishermen, and then you are trying to bring this initiative before an election for your debate and vote and, with that, simply have an electoral excuse in front of the next election. It doesn't seem like anything more than that. We have to remember that the point is to amend Law 30/2014, a law of the People's Party. It is a law emanating from this Congress in 2014, when precisely the People's Party had an absolute majority, quite absolute, to bring out this law - it is its law - which precisely prohibited hunting in national parks. It is also true, by establishing a six-year moratorium on the seventh additional provision of that law, which is now the one that you intend to amend and, therefore, until December 2020, that is, a deadline that has already expired today. It is true that you submitted this bill on 4 December 2020, when it expired on 5 December 2020, that is to say, a day before the expiry of that moratorium was completed. And you were doing so in order to bring the rights of third parties, owners or holders of other rights, which were located on land declared as a national park, into line with the prohibition laid down precisely by law, by your law, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, that law which prohibited hunting and fishing in national parks, among other activities, such as, for example, logging. You even said how this adaptation to the new law of the pre-existing rights of its holders should be made in that period of moratorium: by voluntary agreements, first or, failing that, by expropriation or the rescue of the rights of such third parties. But it is true that this has not been done. In other words, there is no news of voluntary agreements with the holders of these rights or of their expropriation or rescue. And, of course, now we have to account for it, and now we will also talk about the Socialist Party, of course, but you, of those six years, ruled three and a half years, more than half that period of the moratorium. And the question is what did you do in the Government of Spain with that absolute majority to fulfill the very legal mandate of the seventh additional provision of the 2014 Act. What did you do with that government in the majority? And now we're going with the Socialist Party. It is true that they ruled, within this period of moratorium, two and a half years, the remaining two and a half years, and also allowed the period to expire without taking any decision to settle or adjust third-party rights in national parks, according to that seventh additional provision. The current situation is therefore simply that a legal mandate has been breached, a mandate set out in a rule emanating from this Congress in which neither you, the People's Party, nor the Socialist Party - again the same situation - have done anything in these six years to bring those rights into line with the norm. And that's why I'm telling you that we're surprised, because in their proposed law presented in 2020 they established that it was done until the last day of 2023, this year 2023, everything possible to carry out those particular agreements, voluntary with the rights holders, either expropriate or rescue those rights. And of course, that you now bring to debate this proposal of law when there are only ten or eleven months left with an election by means, sincerely, it makes much doubt that it is possible to carry out, even if it was passed, all that processing for which you were already planning that it would take six years, which now you want it to be done in ten months. Citizens have always maintained that in Spain we have only 1% of that area in national parks and that, therefore, the possibility of fishing or hunting in them is not a relevant aspect, except when situations of overpopulation of certain species have occurred since the ban, with the added problems that, for example, Mr Martínez Oblanca has mentioned here. We do not believe that the problem is where the People's Party places it, but rather in the need to solve this problem caused precisely by the overpopulation of some species in some places by abandoning their kinegetic control. We are also talking about the environmental imbalance created by the disappearance or extreme reduction of certain plant species due to the increased need for wild feeding of those species which now have excessive overpopulation. And we are finally talking about the loss of economy and income for certain sectors of the population related to kinegetic activity, which were not resolved within that six-year moratorium period. But, I insist, it is a problem that neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party have ever known or wished to solve, although there is a solution. The National Parks Act currently in force states in its article 7.3 that both sport and commercial hunting and sport and recreational fishing are incompatible activities, but also provides for the option of programming and organising stock control and habitat restoration activities in accordance with the objectives and determinations of the Master Plan and the Master Plan for Use and Management. In other words, there is an option to make decisions when it comes to restoring the population imbalance that has occurred in the fauna of certain areas, and also with an important saving for the public era if it is done well, because now what is being done is the live capture of many species that, finally, end up being sacrificed by the wounds or the stress they suffer. Therefore, we understand that the solution is to maintain a planned and controlled kinegetic activity, which has as its maximum precisely the best protection and conservation of ecosystems in an integral, sustainable and efficient way, but not by this proposal of law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u33	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u34	Yes, President. I speak from the seat just to show our position on this issue. We believe, as has been said here, that this is an initiative that comes late, that has expired as far as its content is concerned, and that it should have been updated if the PP wanted to make a solid proposal to address this issue. It is for this reason, and also for not sharing the substance of the matter, that we are going to vote against this initiative. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u35	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u36	Thank you very much, President. In 2014, you, the People's Group, passed in solitary in the Senate - I remember - a National Parks Act with which what you wanted in the fund was to be able to continue with the private management of the hunting grounds that were affected. In fact, amendment 278 - known as the Cospedal amendment at the time - extended hunting in private farms within the parks to 2020 as compensation measures for the affected. This moratorium has been completed for two years and now justifies the importance of extending it because of its importance as an axis for the development of the rural environment. You can see the plumber, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group! You are either for the protection of the natural environment and biodiversity or for the private exploitation of these protected areas. One thing is incompatible with the other. One pursues a principle of general interest, of protecting spaces of one natural interest, and the other, merely mercantilistic purposes. But let us give some historical perspective to these demands of the People's Party in order to understand the context. Remember the strategy of the people's governments, which was to deregulate and dismantle the Narbona set of laws protecting the natural heritage and biodiversity: the Coasts General Regulations, the Mountains Act, the Water Act, the Marine Environment Protection Act and others, in many cases favoring private uses above public uses. The proposal you put forward involved the first phase of privatization of these parks, from our point of view; it opened the door to declaring them urbanizable, to turning them even into private hunting grounds or into a recreational-sports area. This model compromises the natural heritage and the maintenance of species, habitats and even ecosystems; it involves an attack on biodiversity and ecological wealth, the heritage of centuries and centuries of land and its species, to put them at the service of the market in an immoral mercantilization of natural areas - I repeat, natural areas - especially protected by their high value and wealth. In other words, it legalizes an expoliation of the national collective heritage for the commercial benefit of a few. The intention is obvious. We are not talking about a whole territory, we are talking about spaces that really deserve a natural protection effort. In addition, we also told them in 2014, this measure invades the competitive framework of the Autonomous Communities. I do not want to go into much detail, but a matter as specific as the policy of protecting nature and protected natural spaces does not appear in the Constitution or as the competence of the communities or the State. It means that we are faced with an assumption of Article 149.3, and that the subject matter will only fall to the Autonomous Communities when they have provided for it in their respective statutes, and so it is. In fact, competition over these protected natural spaces is no longer widespread, much less in communities such as Catalonia, Andalusia, país valencià, IllesBalears, Aragón and Navarra, where it is collected as exclusive competition. Article 9.10 of the Catalonian Autonomy Statute states that the Government of Catalonia has exclusive competence, inter alia, over mountains, forest uses and services, livestock and pastures, protected natural areas and special treatment of mountain areas, in accordance with article 141 (1), paragraph 23, of the Constitution. It is quite clear that competition is a full responsibility for the management of the autonomous community. The Generalitat, therefore, enjoys in this strict sense the exclusive competence of the management of its natural spaces without any occidental limitation. That fact was even repeatedly endorsed by the Constitutional Court's support for some abuses in that regard. In any case - and I close already - the kinegetic strategy in the natural parks should not fall on private, but, in any case, should fall, by exclusive autonomous competition, perhaps in the management of these singular natural spaces, should fall - I mean - on who is managing these natural singular spaces, not directly in private funds or interests. That is why we shall vote against the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u37	Thank you very much. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Comú, Mr García Nieto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u38	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, we are being brought to plenary this proposal for a law to rescue it from the memory chest of 2020, more than two years ago, so that we can discuss one of its main themes: hunting. The title of its PL referring to national parks is accessory and demagogic. Even if they try to disguise it, it doesn't sting. I'm going to answer the PNV and Citizens, when they were wondering why they bring this proposal. What a coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, that this very week we are discussing the animal welfare law here in this House! If you want to talk about hunting, let's talk, ladies and gentlemen. Since the first day of the current coalition government, both my confederal group and the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030 have shown that we and our fellow citizens are shaking our legs when it comes to confronting groups with as much power as the hunters' lobby. We have not forgotten the infamous video broadcast by the Royal Spanish Federation of Hunting, in which threatening content was poured againstSergio García Torres, director general of Animal Rights, accusing him of promoting animalist chiringuitos, when the reality is that some of the most important organizations in Spain dedicated to hunting feed their accounts of conventions and public subsidies. Associations, foundations and hunting federations from different Spanish regions accumulate aid from the Higher Sports Council, the Ministry of Agriculture, the European Union and most regional governments for a total amount of hundreds of thousands of euros each year. And the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that in my group, as you will imagine, we are against remembering and, above all, financing the famous montage scenes of the film innocent Lossantes. [[Rumors.-A lady MP: Come on, man!-Applause]] Now it turns out that the People's Party comes here today to defend the interests of the hunting lobby again on account of Law 30/2014 of National Parks, because for the People's Party it is not enough with the territory of Spain where hunting is authorized, ladies and gentlemen. 87% of all national territory is not enough, is it?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Ladies and gentlemen, I bring you here a graph to make it clear to you that what we are talking about, by the way, the source is Jara and Sedal magazine. [[shows a graph]] As can be seen, only 13% of Spain is blinded for hunting. But, look, the line so thin that it looks up there, 0.75%, you know what it's for? This tiny part is the equivalent of the territory occupied by national parks in our country. Do you not blush to come here, lords of the People's Group, to let us open to you the door of this tiny fraction of the country that they so claim to love for the use and enjoyment of hunters? [[Applauds]] Seriously, don't you give them anything for the body, as we say on my land? You say - yleo -: It is the case in particular of the parks affected by this normative provision where hunting is practiced as a crucial activity of the rural environment, inseparable from the right choice of the best landscapes, of the animal species that are hunted, etc., allows to fix population, in short, the survival of the rural world. Let's dismantle this argument piece by piece, ladies and gentlemen. The reality of hunting is that it contributes to the loss of biodiversity of species. Most of the modern extinctions of species on our planet have been caused by habitat loss or degradation, deforestation, pollution, climate change or predatory species. Every day more than 150 species disappear; every year between 18 000 and 55 000 species are extinct in the world. In Spain, ladies and gentlemen, the impact of hunting on national parks has been very serious and will take a long time to correct if they ever finish. Some of the conditions that leave the hunt and that are to be recovered are persecution and extinction of predators, promotion of invasive alien species, population imbalances, fragmentation of habitats by fences, deterioration of habitats by roads, trenches and other infrastructures, lead pollution and shameful limitations to public use. On the basis of partial studies and with the excuse of control of populations, several parks and autonomous communities are approving or have plans for the use and management and control of populations that would allow hunters and landowners to continue hunting. As far as compliance with the legislation is concerned, the world of hunting is constantly rebellious with European directives and national and autonomous laws, ladies and gentlemen, I give you an example. In the mountains of Hornachuelos, in northern Cordoba, after it was declared by the UNESCO Biosphere Reserve, gigantic hunting farms, such as that of the Koplowitz family, closed as hunting grounds, prevent the passage of historians so that they can access three Andalusian fortresses. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from numerous scientific studies and even some ruling of the Supreme Court that hunting is exactly the opposite of promoting ecological balance. They are encouraging the increase of wild boar and deer populations through release and feeder facilities. All this has contributed to the entry of invasive species outside our ecosystems. When hunting is put at the service of so-called population control, whatever circumstances it may be, it suddenly fails. On the other hand, the practice of kinegetics increasingly harms the rest of the activities of exploitation, leisure and tourism that take place in the natural environment, disturbs and endangers the people and creates legal or physical obstacles to limit their development, and this happens when it is already demonstrated, through a recent study elaborated in Andalusia, that the activities of environmental self-consumption, recreational use and conservation of the endangered biodiversity are more profitable than the hunting in economic terms. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote no to your proposal for a law, not with capitals to legalize commercial or sports hunting in the national parks of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u39	Thank you very much. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Contreras Peláez has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u40	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We are here to discuss a proposal for a law of the People's Group aimed at mitigating the most negative effects of a law of the People's Group. We refer to the National Parks Act, adopted in 2014, at Mr.Rajoy's stage, and article 7.3 of which contained a strict ban on hunting and fishing in national parks; that is, by applying a moratorium that, as indicated earlier, expired in 2020. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party, do not blame this on the left, because it was you who imposed a strict ban on hunting and fishing. [[Applauds]] It is a good thing that the Group of the European People's Party is proposing an amendment, but as is the case on other occasions, it seems to us that this self-rectification has been mid-tracked, because what is now proposed is the conclusion of voluntary agreements of imprecise scope, in very vague terms, between the owners of hunting grounds located in the parks and the Administration, rather than proposing the repeal of this strict ban on hunting and fishing contained in Article 7.3. And with this it is verified once again that the PP really does not want to wage the cultural battle. We already know that for Mr Feijóo this from the cultural battle is a very extremist, very unmoderate thing. To rid the cultural battle would have been to repeal the ban, and thus to show clearly that the progressive principle that hunting is a cruel, anti-ecological activity, etc., was renounced. Instead of doing that, what you're doing is trying to mitigate the economic effects of the ban by the back door. We did it another way. In VOX we are the party of the cultural battle, we are born for that, it is our raison d'être, and that is why we address this issue in other terms. When we proposed our GNP on this issue in September 2020 - our colleague Ricardo Chamorro defended it -, there we did propose the repeal of the ban on hunting and fishing in national parks, at least in those parks where hunting and fishing were traditional activities, such as, for example, Picos de Europa, Sierra de Gredos, Cabañeros or Monfragüe. We explain then that there are many jobs at stake. For example, in Cabañeros Park, if hunting is suppressed, they lose their work directly up to forty farm guards; but above all there are many indirect jobs at stake, because there are many small businesses in the area that engage in activities connected with hunting, such as taxidermists, hunter bars, small hotels, gas stations, etc. Hunting is important not only for economic reasons, but also for environmental reasons, to regulate the population balance between species. For example, in Gredos and Guadarrama, overcrowded mountain goats are causing very serious damage to native flora, and in Doñana Park, sworn guards have to kill hundreds of deer and wild boars every year to prevent their excessive proliferation. So why not allow the inhabitants of the area to make this population regulation through hunting, sometimes obtaining an economic benefit, contributing to the preservation of a traditional way of life and opening up tourist opportunities in areas that are often very depressed? [[Applauds]] It also happens that private initiative, i.e. hunters and landowners, do this better than the Administration. I'll give you an example of my Andalusian land. After many millions of public money invested in trying to save the Iberian lynx, in the end it was a private hunting ground, in the Andújar area, the only one that preserved a population of lynx large enough to be genetically viable and serve as a starting point for the progressive recovery of the species. In short, gentlemen of the People's Party, if you allow me a friendly advice, resign, break with the mental frame of the left, break with what Quintana Paz has called 'PSOE state of mind'. They plant face to left in what is most important to her, which are her toxic principles, her lies; principles such as that the embryo is a mere excrescence that can be eliminated as if it were a boil; principles such as that human beings can choose our sex. Once again repeal the Trans law of the Community of Madrid, repeal the democratic memory law of Andalusia or repeal, for example, Galicia's linguistic immersion measures, such as the one which has recently forced children to stay three weeks without speaking a word of Spanish, not even at home. [[Applauds]] The left - now it is up to the left to receive a little - hates hunting; it seems to me that it has become evident in the intervention of the deputy of Podemos. I'm going to tell the secret of why the left hates hunting. They hate hunting because it implies the affirmation of human supremacy, the superiority of the human species over other species, and this to some philosophers progresses, such as Peter Singer, seems to them specist supremacism; they have coined a new term paraesto, the term specism. In fact, the human being has been asserting his sovereignty over nature through hunting for over a million years. Hunting is the oldest human activity, long before agriculture or livestock, soRoger Scruton wrote that hunting allows us a kind of communion with our paleolithic ancestors and with the natural environment that no other human experience can provide. It is known, however, that the left despises the past; the past seems to him to be a long night of machismo, racism and, in this case, specism or specist supremacism. Before, the deputy of Podemos quoted the novel Los santos innocentes, by Miguel Delibes, to present the hunt as a shameful and gentlemanly activity. Well, listen to what Miguel Delibes said about hunting, although I imagine after that they will add it to the black list of intellectuals: I love nature because I am a hunter. [[laughs]] I'm a hunter because I love nature. They say that's contradictory, but if I protect the losers, I'll have parachute losers in the fall. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u41	Thank you. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bueno Campanario has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u42	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if Spain breaks up, Spain is in ruin, what is it, Mr Sánchez, that brings us here today? The laps he has taken in his twelve minutes to say that what he wants is for him to go back to hunting in the national parks. Do you know section 7 of the National Parks Act? Because it is your law, some speakers have already told you here and the spokesman who has spoken has also told you. Do you know the article that says that you are incompatible with the conservation of a national park with sport hunting and commercial hunting? You are looking for the photo of Feijóo, Rajoy and Aznar, but come here and make amendments to your policies. [[Applauds]] What's he doing? They're a little lost. To the spokesman of VOX, without wanting to waste much time with this, it would surprise you to know that those who we climb here, to this atrium, we can also have relation with the rural world and even with hunting, the right has not the heritage, but with social hunting, which is precisely not the one that you defend. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Feijóo said that he is very concerned about inflation, but the first initiative the People's Party has this year is to go back to hunting in national parks, without a single measure to lower inflation. They say they are very concerned about women - what women would do without you, ladies and gentlemen - but the first initiative they have this year is to go back to hunting in national parks, without a single measure to contribute to the real and effective equality between men and women. They are very concerned about public debt, but the first initiative they have this year, Mr Sánchez, is to go back to hunting in national parks, nothing to help families or businesses, industry, agriculture, transport and livestock. [[Applauds]] Nothing. You were in debt by cutting and rescuing banks, but we did not see you fighting in the European Union for your people. They came here resigned to tell us to tighten our belt. [[A Member of Parliament: Very well!]] It is you who have done the most damage to agriculture, livestock and the rural environment of this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] You do not want to improve the quality of life of workers or to put an end to inequalities or to lower inflation; you intend, and this is reflected in this proposal, to favour the large landowners, and that, ladies and gentlemen, does not help the rural environment, that helps the pocket of your friends, and that is what you intend with this initiative. But let us explain your proposal and your lack of rigour, although the previous speakers have already done well. They bring a proposal for a law that they registered in 2020, ladies and gentlemen, and neither the explanatory statement has changed. It's totally decontextualized. You're over eighty, haven't you given any time to take a look at it and bring it to the day, to 2023, ladies and gentlemen? Didn't you give them time? [[Applauds]] They intend to amend paragraph 1 of the seventh additional provision of the National Parks Act, which set a time limit for public administrations to take appropriate measures to adapt the situation of national parks that were already declared to the new law, its law, in particular the determinations of articles 6 and 7. Well, it follows that what concerns you is the prohibition of commercial and sporting hunting, whose incompatibility with the conservation of parks is already reflected in the law itself. And I say apparently, because if you really cared, what you would have done would have been to have worked on this proposal a little bit more, among other things, because the deadline provided for in the seventh additional provision of the National Parks Act ended on December 5, 2020, just when you registered this proposal. What a coincidence! National parks have not been hunted since 2020. The adoption of a new adaptation period is therefore unfounded, because the prohibition set out in the law, which has been being implemented for more than two years, should be lifted. Nor is it true that the survival of the rural world depends on this type of hunting, Mr Sánchez, it is not true. The surface, as you have already been told, is minimal: only 0.1 %. Therefore, and in conclusion, they are creating, Mr Sánchez, a problem where there is no such problem. Of course, if I were the owner of a farm, Your Honor, I would not leave in your hands the defense of my interests, because they bring a decaffeinated, inconsistent and expired proposition, Mr Sánchez, expired. Your Honor, I've already told you that you should have had a look around. Talking about national parks, rural areas and depopulation is something much more complex than what you reflect in this proposal. Depopulation produces an unjust and unsustainable imbalance. For this reason, the Government is working to respond to the difficulties of rural areas, and hunting in national parks is not the answer; it is the new declaration of the Sierra de las Nieves National Park in Andalusia, which is committed to a new development model for our peoples, based on natural wealth, which is what makes them unique; it is also the new third-cycle hydrological plans, which respond to the challenges of climate change, and it is the Biodiversity Strategy, the National Strategy against Desertification, the Strategic Plan for Wetlands, with investments in Doñana, of 400 million euros, and in the Mar Menor, of 500 million euros, and the plan for measures against the re-population. [[applause]] What policies have you made to combat depopulation, ladies and gentlemen? Zero! How much did they invest in the fight against depopulation? Zero! They are only making an interested use, ladies and gentlemen, of the rural environment. What about environmental policies? Zero too. In Andalusia, they went to Huelva and promised to increase the watering of farmers, while the president asked for a billion euros from the government to fight the drought. Now it seems to me that you don't think the same thing anymore. Then go to Huelva and tell the farmers that they told you before the election; go and tell them. Anyway, ladies, do you know what's going on? It was believed that the socialists were not going to endure four years, that we were not going to endure that long, and they have run out of repertoire. So, go make a collection of repertoire, because we think we're four more years. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u43	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u44	So, put aside your particular interests, which your country needs and is still waiting for you. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u45	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u46	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We began with the non-law proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the condemnation of events in the Federal Republic of Brazil on January 8, 2023, as well as the support and commitment to Brazilian institutions. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Ramírez Carner has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u47	Thank you very much, President. Deputies, deputies, good afternoon. The Socialist Group has decided to present this initiative in the face of the most sad events that took place on 8 January in Brazil, when, as you know, thousands of hand-held demonstrators decided to attack the country's main democratic institutions. The text is easy, it doesn't take much time to explain its purpose. We ask you all to condemn events in Brazil, but to smell what happened in the United States, and whose origins - this is the debate we want to propose to you from the Socialist Group - also smell these populist and extremist movements. If we have to talk about Brazil, I allow myself a small parenthesis to recognize the immense work of caring for the collectives of people from Brazil in Spain, specifically in Barcelona, of the companion of this House, Maria Dantas. Mary campaigned for democracy; we did it together. We share events in Barcelona, also with Mr Pisarello. Many very different parties, which we discussed about many things, unite at the request of entities of very diverse citizens of Brazil to pose a new time and help them in that. But this does not happen only in Brazil, as I said, and that is why we in the Socialist Group have found it interesting to use this atril and this House to raise the following debate. The global eruption of ultra movements can put our democracies at risk. Sometimes we believe that those rights, those freedoms that we have achieved or that our predecessors have achieved will be there forever, that we will not lose them. We have seen that it is not; we have seen it on many issues and we have seen it now in Brazil. That is why we are asking them - from many perspectives - for a debate in at least two areas: political debate, what we are talking about, the words we use, the new communicative methods and what we do with them, and then how we deal with each other and each other. On political debate, public debate and what we and we can do here in this regard. It is clear that a strong democracy, a healthy democracy is one that has political representatives - not just politicians, this debate is broader - who make a healthy debate, who make an honest debate, who make a quality debate; who are vehemently, who argue, who fight, but who always do so, of course, from respect, but also from the truth. And here, since dona Cuca Gamarra wanted to put on the same night of the events in Brazil what happened as a comparison with our country, with Spain, I would like to reflect to the People's Party on whether they believe that their contribution to the political debate helps or does not help that healthy, honest and quality debate. [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel: Yes, yes!]] Well, let's see it. They began the legislature by predicting an economic apocalypse that has never occurred. They spent a lot of time saying that our budgets would be useless because they predicted a growth that didn't touch, that we would have the highest price rise in Europe... The opposite has happened. Instead of correcting and helping the public debate to be useful, healthy and of quality, it was covered up by another apocalypse, in this case even worse: the political apocalypse. Mr Sánchez is a tyrant, Spain is on its way to a dictatorship, even not long ago they did some great demonstrations where things were said that were much thicker than this. The Economist, by the way, has acknowledged that we are back to being a full democracy, and we have no better position, why? Because the People's Party continues to violate the Constitution and we cannot renew the judiciary. It breaks Spain. Another apocalypse that disturbs political debate from an intelligent point of view. In 2017 or 2023, when are we best in relations with Catalonia? The answer is obvious. I believe that the only thing that has been achieved is the Independence Government of Catalonia. And I remember other events: the most voted list, only if it is from the People's Party; respect for the Constitution, only in those articles that the People's Party considers; debates, of course, with bubbles, using fear, far from reality. What does that sound like to us? What causes this? What dangerous crop stock causes this kind of public debate? The other thing, and for me the most important thing, is to recognize and respect ourselves. We have to recognize legitimacy, we cannot lose elections and we cannot recognize democratic legitimacy in the ballot boxes. That's very dangerous; we've seen it in the United States and we've seen it in Brazil. It cannot be that only the governments of the People's Party and the right are legitimate; only if the People's Party governs there is legitimacy. Repeat with me, even if it is inside: Spain is not of the PP, the Government is not of the PP and the Constitution is not of the PP. Then there's the respect. When I came in here - I'm still a rookie - it was a freak of parliamentarianism, but at home I didn't listen to the things that are heard here. I'm going to give two examples so that we can think whether the image we're giving here can please us especially or not. I think: What kind of person - in addition to a national deputy, to give you examples - has so little self-control that during a parliamentary debate he calls another deputy a witch, and here nothing happens, or he has to argue by telling a minister that he is for whom his partner is? Who then uses these debates with expressions on social networks like 'I don't know who of VOX destroys the parliamentary spokesman of the PSOE', 'I don't know who of VOX humiliates the socialist MP'? What are those expressions? What insults are those? What are we surprised at when they happen? I believe that the People's Party should reflect on this - I conclude, President - because it cannot be that such dangerous speeches are legitimate for our democracy just to hide the successes of the government and postpone an unavoidable response. It won't happen, but if you could rule, will you do it with VOX? Will they do it with VOX? Yes or no? Because this debate ends here.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u48	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u49	I ended up with this reflection: What country do we want to leave our children? These seats aren't ours, they're temporary. Are we giving them the best possible use? Are we setting the best possible example? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u50	Thank you. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mrs Carvalho Dantas is speaking first of all by the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u51	Thank you very much, President. In Brazil, democracy is not won at all. It is true that we have expelled the fascism that came to the power of the Federal Republic of Brazil in 2018, but there is still the scumbagism, which is that ideology of hatred, death, destruction that is absolutely rooted in my country. But they won't happen, as they didn't happen on January 1st. This hatred ideology that killed 700,000 people of COVID in Brazil and killed 570 girls and boys from the native Yanomami village in Roraimano will pass. And I want to say that in this house are his friends, his brother friends are here and they are dedicated to traveling to Brazil and making connections with the extreme right of Brazil. [[shows a photograph showing Santiago Abascal and Jair Bolsonaro]] [[Applauds]] A new Brazil is born, with Lula da Silva, full of hope, joy, love and friendship. We have won hate in the ballot boxes, I repeat, we have won hate in the ballot boxes. And I came here, and said, We shall slay the day. And we won in Brazil. I have very little time and I want to speak here with two women from my country, from my other country, which is Brazil. One of them is a minister of the original peoples. Her name is Sonia Guajajara. The indigenous peoples, have resisted cowardly and violent daily attacks for more than 500 years, attacks as shocking and terrifying as those we saw last Sunday in Brasilia, but always less visible. From now on, this invisibility will no longer be able to camouflage our reality. Here we are, standing, to prove that we will not surrender. Our community here today, mine and Anielle Franco, is the most legitimate symbol of this resistance of centuries, black and indigenous, in Brazil. The invisibility of centuries that impacts and has directly impacted the public policies of the State is the result of racism, inequality, a democracy of low representativeness, which caused intense institutional, political and social invisibility, placing us, the indigenous peoples, in the sad panorama of the under-representation and social under-record of the country. It is centuries of violence, rape, and it is no longer tolerable to accept public policies inappropriate for bodies, cosmologies, indigenous understandings of land use. We remind the relatives who were taken out of our societies by the bullet of fascism that was imposed in Brazil in the last four years, pouring blatantly a lot of indigenous blood; we remember all the brothers and sisters of the Brazilian indigenous peoples and the people defending the land, the allies, who were also murdered. Every living and living indigenousman represents a climate guardian of Mother Earth. We know that it will not be easy to overcome 522 years in four, but we are ready to make this moment the great recovery of the ancestral strength of the Brazilian soul and spirit. No more Brazil without us, the original peoples. Anielle Franco, Minister of Racial Equality, is the sister of Marielle Franco, Councillor of Rio de Janeiro, who was murdered in Brazil on March 14, 2018. Since Marielle died, we haven't stopped working for truth, justice and reparation. It is a struggle that brought us to this January 1st of this year, when the Brazilian people finally climbed to the ramp of this palace, in a remarkable gesture that moved the whole world, because it sent a message. When our president Lularecibió the presidential band in the hands of the people, represented by a black woman from the periphery, showed that the road to Brazil of the future will be led by those who have resisted the violent project that founded this country during the centuries.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u52	Your Honor, you must finish, please. Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u53	I'm done, President; I'm done. From the kidnapping of our great-grandfathers and great-grandfathers in Africa to the struggle to guarantee public policies and the existence of the Ministry of Racial Equality, we are not alone in this collective project. We will continue to reaffirm our commitment to work day by day. Let's go together. Long live the Brazilian people! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u54	Thank you. Mrs De Meer Méndez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. The Socialist Party is bringing today an initiative to condemn the January 8 in Brazil and to express our commitment to the Government of Lula da Silva. The violent acts of 8 January - I'm sorry for the deputy of Esquerra, who has left the room - condemned them Bolsonaro. [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas: I'm back]] I don't know if you were aware or not. And, of course, we condemn them, because we - which is what distinguishes us from you - always condemn all violence and every attack on the institutions. [[Applauds]] You can't say the same thing. [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas shows again the photograph in which Santiago Abascal and Jair Bolsonaro appear]] Yeah, yeah, take the picture of the Bolsonaro later, because Bolsonaro convicted him...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u56	One second, Your Honor, one second. Mrs. Dantas, please, you know you can't do that kind of use from the seat. Come down, please, that photograph.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u57	It's very pretty out there, Santiago Abascal, by the way. [[Applauds]] You can't say the same thing. Why? Why should we condemn Brazil and not condemn Peru? There were no deaths in Brazil. We have condemned the violent acts, but in Peru, with the vandalistic acts and the coup againstDina Boluarte, we have already killed sixty. Doesn't anyone condemn that? Why don't we condemn Chile 2018? Why don't you condemn Gustavo Petro's Colombia 2021? Why don't we also condemn Brazil 2017? Why the double rod measure? [[Applauds]] If the Sao Paulo Forum and the Puebla Group, the international leader, want to defend democracy in Brazil, why do they keep quiet with Cuba, Nicaragua or Venezuela? If Lula also endorsed the results in Nicaragua, has she forgotten? The fraud of Evo Morales, moreover, was recognized by the Organization of American States itself, should it not be condemned? The PSOE is concerned about democracy and the weights and counterweights. And why don't we talk about Daniel Ortega? Why should we talk only about what you consider? I, in fact, am losing myself, because last February 1 VOX took an initiative to the European Parliament to condemn the jihadist attacks in Algeciras, which ended the life of a sacristan, and the attack on three churches, which were also wounded and stabbed in Germany. Do you know who voted to find it? The PSOE, of course, you and, also, the PP. [[Applauds]] Why shouldn't that be condemned? Why does the PSOE worry so much about Brazil, not about Peru, not about jihadist terrorism and governance with those around Congress in 2012? Is that not to be condemned, either? There were 64 wounded there, half of them policemen, by the way. Those who surrounded the Congress are also those of - and I quote literally - 'the politics is not done in the parliaments' - said Paul Iglesias, the leader of his political formation -; those of 'no party replaces the strength of the people on the street'; those of 'the siege of Congress, occupies the Congress'; those of, as a current minister of this government said, 'if we aspire to conquer power only through elections, we are doomed to failure' - Alberto Garzón, of the United Left -. What else do you aspire to? How do you intend to protect democracy in that way? Don't you realize that this is an absurd dialectic, that you play to convictions only when you're interested? Don't you realize that isunilateral? Don't you realize that the spokesman for the PSOE spoke of respect and then Mrs. de Esquerra said that we represent hatred and that we won't pass? Do you not realize that you, who say that VOX crispan, have been insulting us in this House for four years... [[Mrs. Carvalho Dantas shows the photograph again]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u58	Your Honor, one second. Excuse me. Mrs. Dantas, I'm calling you to order for the first time. Do not repeat, please, and do not insist on what you already know that the Regulation does not consider. Thank you. Go on and apologize.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u59	Do you not realize that you, who tell the public that VOX is cramming, carry, from getting up until you lie down, in all the plenary, in all the committees, in all the rooms, even closed rushes, in the corridors of this House insulting us permanently? That in this rostrum, where am I, a Member of the Republican Left came to say that we of VOX had no category of people? [[Applauds]] This is not said to the public. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you something that I have never told in this House. 26 June 2020. Six. We were forty, we were surrounded by the puppies of their media and political left, two thousand. They threw stones at us, they threw crystals at us, they threw bottles at us, they threw steel balls at us. And do you know what the miracle of that day was? Don't let anyone die.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u60	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u61	I'm done, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me. And the brave are the ones who live in those lands where you have stolen everything from them and have stolen their freedom. And you didn't hurt me, nor am I afraid, but you did hurt my daughter. I still remember - and I'm done, Mr. President -...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u62	Yes, finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u63	... come back that Sunday to my house and see my three-year-old daughter crying, saying, "Mom, I don't want you to have blood, I don't want you to get hurt."
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u64	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u65	...blood, by the way, which you also deny when you are interested in... [[The honourable Member concludes her speech with the microphone switched off.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u66	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party strongly condemns the assault on democratic institutions that took place in Brazil on 8 January. We condemn it then and reiterate it here today, in the same way that the People's Party strongly condemns the assault on the United States Capitol in January 2021. [[applause]] And that is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we subscribe to the three points of your Petitum, but we are tabling amendments to complete what you have left behind, which are the assaults on democracy in Spain, because, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, we condemn the assault on democratic institutions in Brazil, but we also condemn the assaults on democratic institutions in Spain, which, as you know, have occurred before Brazil and before the United States. [[a Member of Parliament: Very well!-Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, you have a problem of democratic coherence, because you condemn the assault on democratic institutions in Brazil, while in Spain you govern with those who support and encourage attempts to assault democratic institutions in Spain. [[Applauds]] Those 'Route the Congress' of its partners, of United We can against the governments of Mariano Rajoy, legitimately elected in the ballot box by the Spanish citizens. The same as Lula daSilva in Brazil, elected to the polls. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, I know that your United Nations partners can today condemn the assault on democracy in Brazil. But have you already condemned the attacks on Congress following the election victories of the People's Party led by Mariano Rajoy? The assaults in 2012, 2015 and 2016? Have your partners condemned the Andalusian 'Rodea el Parlement' of 2019? Have they condemned the attacks on the Catalan Parliament in 2011, in 2018? What about their nationalist partners? Have you condemned all stosasalto Congress, the Catalan Parliament? Have they condemned Oriol Junqueras or Gabriel Rufián, who even makes jokes about this subject? And Bildu? Or are their partners going to say - they are saying - in the next few minutes that these assaults on democracy and the institutions in Spain are valid, that that is participation? And, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, have your partners condemned the coup to democracy in Catalonia in 2017? Or is it that in Esquerra Republicana, Gabriel Rufián, today condemned the assault on democracy in Brazil, the coup in Brazil, while they support the coup in Catalonia? [[Applauds]] But your problem of inconsistency, ladies and gentlemen, goes beyond that, because you have also pardoned the perpetrators of the coup condemned by the Supreme. Is that what you recommend, by the way, to the Brazilians to strengthen their democracy, and also to agree with those condemned to assault the elimination of crime and the reduction of another? Do you consider that with this you have sufficient international credibility to condemn the assault on democracy in Brazil while governing those who support the assaults on democracy in Spain? Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, you are also making a completely biased reading of the threats to democracy in the world, because you, in that unfortunate statement of reasons, claim to tell the lie that the danger to democracy comes exclusively from extreme right-wing populism. But how do you deny the reality of Spain? Spain is an excellent example that shows that the threats to democracy come from extremist groups of every ideological sign.For all this, we say yes, strongly, to the condemnation of the assault on democracy in Brazil; yes, strongly, to the condemnation of the assaults on democracy in Spain; and yes, to the defense of democratic institutions... [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u68	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u69	...and to the defense of all those who work in its safeguard, including the police forces who risk their lives in defense of the rule of law and democracy in Spain, Brazil and the United States. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to apologize for the fact that I am not going to participate in the noise that has characterized the last speeches. I am going to try to pick up the glove that the proposer of the non-law proposal put forward when he pointed out two debates, and I am going to go back to a date, two decades ago, to understand the reflection. He said the antiglobalization movement - then called antiglobalization movement, then alterglobalism or alterglobalization - that had to be thought globally to act locally. This was said in the face of the neoliberal offensive, the offensive of neoliberal globalization, which posed a scenario with less democracy for a greater capacity to reap the benefits of extractive economic elites, and this was so throughout the planet. After two decades, what we do is that the extreme right, the extreme right, the crazy theories of QAnon, Steve Bannon and his perfection of the alt-right, have also managed to adapt this motto, which was born from the left, which was born from the answer to an unjust world, to its own operating optics. And that's what they did in Brazil on January 8, 2023, acting locally, but from a global prism, from a prism of depreciation of democracies, from a prism of destitution of democracies by authoritarian regimes. As I say, they did it on January 8, 2023 in Brazil, they did it on January 6, 2021 in the United States, and they are willing, because they continue to do it elsewhere, to do it where it is needed, and this is also the Spanish State. Because, what do we hear, for example, concepts that we could quietly read in the Brazilian press or in the American press, such as illegitimate government, hidden agenda, coups in power or destroy the state itself? Who but a former president of the Spanish state, José María Aznar, would say four days ago: I have no doubt - and I do have a paragraph, if you have no doubt, it is not worrying, nor did I have them that there were weapons of mass destruction in Iraq and finally no one found them - that if the current coalition won the next elections, which I hope and believe is not going to happen, a constituent irreversible process would be opened in Spain, with consequences that would affect the historical persistence of the nation and the validity of the Constitution? That is their road map and that is the road map of the extreme right and the extreme right everywhere on the planet, because what they seek is that, in the face of weakened democracy, in favour of economic elites, political, media, economic, judicial and also social offensives are launched to generate authoritarian governments to replace weak Western democracies and weak world democracies. I can tell you more clearly, but we and we will always be in front of that. To be even more synthetic, more graphic: if the extreme right is the anvil, we are the confrontational hammer. In any case, what is at stake here is to strengthen democracy, that representative democracy is a participatory democracy and, if you want us to go further, a direct, radical and popular democracy. Because here we'll also have to see who came out and why they went out in Brazil. Probably - and perhaps this is better understood -, I can explain by saying that those who left Brazil to support the call of the handbagers were those who hate that there are people who care about defending the Amazon, those who hate people like Chico Mendes, when he said that ecology without social struggle is gardening. Probably the ones who went out on the streets are those who hate the poor, those who have aporophobia, those who probably still snuck out for not being able to illegalize by terrorist organization the Sem Terra movement of João Pedro Stedile, the one who said that the economic system must be changed because first it is the human being. Probably those who went out, moved by evangelical churches, are those who hate the work of liberation latheology, what people like Leonardo Boff said, who said that politics cannot be restricted to ordering national interests, but is forced to project global governance to equitably serve collective interests. Also surely those who left Brazil are those who hate feminism, because they are aware that feminism was the first line of confrontation against Bolsonaro, which moved millions of people, millions of women, against Bolsonaro's inequality policies. And they are probably the same people who did not move a finger or blame themselves when Marielle Franco, deputy of the PSOL, black woman, feminist and lesbian who said that: We must occupy all spaces with our bodies. Probably the ones who came out are those who hate democracy, and they are those who when they lose an election - and this doesn't matter when it happens, whether before or now, yes there or here, because this has happened, it was in 1936-, they will rise. To conclude, I am left with what a famous Brazilian, Socrates, and not the Greek, Socrates the footballer, Socrates de Souza, the precursor of Corinthian democracy: Win or lose, but always in democracy. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u72	Thank you. Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u73	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that I didn't think there was going to be so much controversy and so much debate with this proposal, it seems to me that it is quite easy to accept, but from the first minute it has already entered into it and you more. Since Brazil is a particularly key country because of its demographic weight and its economic weight in global geostrategy, and obviously it is condemnable the situation in many other countries, starting with Nicaragua, for example, but we are talking about Brazil, and I am going to talk about what is being proposed here. In the amendments proposed by the VOX Group there is an express withdrawal of the term 'State coup', which is expressly marked 'State coup'. Well, if this isn't a coup d'état, occupying the institutions, what is it? But it seems that it is a coup d'état to want to vote democratically. Of course, we have the problem that it is trivialized, it has been trivialized for a long time what the coup d'état is. State coup was the 23-F in Spain, that's what it was. As it turns out, in Brazil, those who invade the Parliament are the same people who camp in front of the army headquarters just to make themselves known the election results and ask the army for a coup d'état. For months they are there and for months the idea is fed that there has been an electoral fraud; an electoral fraud - Bolsonaro feeds it - which is also justified in another amendment of VOX, in fact in the explanatory statement mentions the lack of confidence of citizens in the democratic system, which has been increased by the numerous cases of electoral fraud recorded in the region. I mean, well, yeah, let's say this is wrong, but we softened it because it had its justification. They are justifying a balanced attitude to that of the invasion of the American Congress. Wasn't that a coup, either? Wasn't that a coup, either? And it was based on: Bolsonaro was also not there - like Trump - but he fed the camps and encouraged people to do something because the institutions and the real results were in danger, and there was a danger that they would do anything that had come to them. All this was coordinated - Festa da Selma was the key to the assault, and it is known -. What would have happened if the army had joined and supported all that demonstration? There were doubts, there were doubts at first. A coup d'état. The first amendment of the People's Party does not know exactly what it refers to: 'In the same way that it condemns with equal roundness all the attacks on democracy that took place in Spain'. I don't know, I guess it'll be the Franco coup. I don't know if the 'Road Congress'. Are you talking about Catalonia too? Yes, because Mrs. Uriarte talks about Catalonia. But when has the existence of the State itself, the existence of the Spanish Government itself or the dissolution of this Congress been put at risk in Catalonia? When did you put yourself in danger? At no time does it happen that you trivialize definitions. Look, the second amendment is global. They say: 'In the same way that it shows its support and commitment to the democratic institutions of Spain and to its rule of law'. Look, the only ones here who question support for democratic institutions are you suggesting that there is no such support, suggesting that there is no such support. In short, the Government is not legitimate. That undermines people's confidence in their own institutions; with such messages undermines people's confidence in their own institutions, and that coming from a party that aspires to rule is dangerous. That's how Brazil started. I am not saying that it is going to evolve like this, but, of course, to question the legitimacy of the Government in the absence of recognition of electoral results, there is a thin step. Watch out, watch out! I believe that the Esquerra amendment complements GNP well. The Yanomami genocide, which has finally come to light, has been mentioned. Yanomami children die at a rate 191 times higher than the Brazilian average; undernutrition of 80% of the infant population; mining has contaminated the rivers with mercury absolutely; the expansion of COVID and other diseases, etc., etc. I believe that it would be complementary and that the Socialist Party should accept it. I will conclude with an article that I recommend you read. There are different issues that arise in an article by the philosopher Daniel Innerarity, in today's Deia newspaper, entitled 'The Strength of Democracy'. He says 2022 hasn't been such a bad year. Xi's health authoritarianism has been incompetent, Iran's despots have been challenged, Trump's candidates have lost the elections - like Bolsonaro -, and Putin's aggression has been stopped. It makes a final reflection that I will read, and with this I conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u74	Yes, finish, please. Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u75	It's 20 seconds. 'All this is not a model of democratic exemplaryity and good governance, but indicates that the famous weights and counterweights of liberal democracy have not ceased to function altogether - now well measured at European level -. Democracy quite well neutralizes the danger posed by extremism. Exaggerating the fragility of democracy is a discourse that coincides with what they want us to believe their enemies... The construction of procedures and systems that moderate and neutralize excess is not as epic as the anti-fascist combat - which some light up over and over again - but it is exactly what is least suitable for extremists and, therefore, what strengthens democracy most.' Nothing more and thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u76	Thank you very much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr López-Bas Valero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Ramírez, believe me that, beyond the notes that I can bring for this debate, for this speech, I would like to appreciate an issue that you have made clear in your speech, and that is that I think you have been really honest when you have raised that the problem is not so much... Well, we are obviously condemning what happened in Brazil and, therefore, the events that happened in Brazil or the events that happened a year earlier in the United States Capitol, but I think that you have highlighted a really important issue, which is the cause of all these circumstances, and it is possibly the responsibility of those we hold public office, of those we hold seats, of those we have access to microphones, so that we can sometimes say real barbarities that lead others to such attitudes. I want to say that I think you have been honest, because I think you are right that we should all think about how to get out of this debate that is being debated in this House today, in which in the end everything has been noisy. I really would like this debate to be yours at times so that we can talk about these things quietly, even isolate ourselves from that strange noise. Let us go on to say that my parliamentary group absolutely condemns the events that took place in Brazil on 8 January, such as those of the previous year in the United States Capitol, and we also do so without any kind of excuse, without any kind of excuse, without any kind of justification for what could have happened to provoke that situation, because that is basically what it seems that other parliamentary groups have tried today with their amendments: we condemn but. We don't condemn but, we condemn. In fact, I would encourage you not to accept any amendments and to vote and raise the non-legislative proposal on the very terms on which the Socialist Group is planting it. I'm saying it because I think it's really what this is about. Most of her speech has devoted her to talking about that responsibility that we should all have here to avoid in the future situations that we have to regret, but I really say to her - and it is a reproach, not to take it as such although it is - that we must be honest to ask for responsibility from all of us, and for that we must also have memory. We have condemned when someone, for example, has painted in a Socialist Party headquarters, in a Podemos headquarters or in a Communist Party headquarters. We have condemned it because we believe that any act must be condemned against political parties, against democratic institutions and, above all, against what these institutions represent. But we must also be honest and remember circumstances, as you have been told today, that occurred in the Parliament of Catalonia or in this Congress itself with the 'Rodea el Congress' movement, when colleagues in my parliamentary group had to leave here at a given time in a rain of beer cans, spitting, and insulting. That is also an attack on democratic institutions, but the sad thing is not that they happen, the sad thing is that there are Members sitting in these seats who at the time are freezing and even justifying certain issues. It's those convictions, but. I would really like to think that you can have this debate to be honest, to remember all those circumstances, those that promote right-wing people or those that promote left-wing people or those that can promote at a given time people of center who are wrong and get into that pasture without being necessary to defend each one of their ideas. I would simply like to think that any member of Bildu can give a rally anywhere in Spain without any problem, but that also a member of my party could go, for example, to Alsasua, and give a rally without having to be protected by the police. These are the issues that we really have to raise and on which we should have an honest and honest debate. I think that you have, I think that can be done and I think that all these kinds of attitudes of those who attack democratic institutions can be condemned, but it must be done honestly and, of course, without any kind of despair and without any kind of apology. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u78	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. We strongly condemn the attempted coup d'état of the ultra-right-wing purser against the Government of Lula in Brazil, which is part of a political strategy designed at the international level, as evidenced by the model, based on the occupation of the three powers promoted by Trump two years earlier in Washington. In any case, it shows how the most extreme sectors of the political and economic elites are unwilling to respect the will of the people when they consider that they question their interests. But on January 8, it was preceded by other blows that many finally did not condemn. So it happened with the powerful, in Brazil, against Dilma Rousseff, in 2016, and Lula's unjust and illegal prison to prevent her from participating in the 2018 elections. But also in Latin America are the cases of Honduras, Paraguay, Bolivia, Ecuador, Argentina or Peru. It is also necessary to condemn the soft judicial blows against democracy because they represent a threat everywhere. And of course we condemn the 65 deaths killed by the Government of Dina Boluarte in Peru. It is not clear whether, and I conclude, Bannon's disciples feed similar expectations or at the moment content themselves with war-civilist rhetoric and censorship motions with former anti-Franchists recycled into useful fools of the nostalgic far right of Francoism. Then...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u80	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your time is up. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u81	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice-President. The non-legislative proposal before us at this point must necessarily start with regard to our contribution to condemning the actions that took place in Brazil. I have to tell you that we miss this kind of statement also when these acts took place in the United States. The truth is that one ends up thinking that there are certain democratic movements that are more friendly to the left and easier to add, but instead these facts and with equal magnitude even with equal force occurred previously in the United States and there was no such statement by the Socialist Party in this Chamber. Whatever. The important thing I think is not to look for nuances on this issue, to condemn what happened in the United States, to condemn what happened in Brazil and, above all, by picking up some of the reflection that you were doing, you have to start talking with a little bit more rigour. It has previously been pointed out by the People's Democratic Allasal Party, comparing and nearly equalizing the Tjero coup d'état or the coups d'état in the United States and Brazil with what happened in Catalonia. To the extent that these concepts are trivialized, to the extent that situations are similar is when a weak favor is done in understanding what really happens to the facts, what is to be condemned and what is not to be condemned. Therefore, in the general appeal that has been made to a more calm political union, to a more responsible policy, we condemn the facts of the United States, condemn the facts of Brazil and also call for rigour to begin to appear in many of the political discussions that take place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u82	Thank you. Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we condemn the coup and reiterate our support for President Lula and democracy in Brazil. We join the complaints against the populisms which, coordinated or under the orders of the ultra-right installed in the institutions - in the judiciary, in the prosecutor's office, in the ministries, in the police, in the army - put at risk democracy and the rights of citizens and minorities. And we condemn the fakenews, the trivialization of information and the use of lies for political purposes. Although we think that lessons one must, first, apply to himself, because if scumbagry is to use fake news as a political weapon to attack the opponent, we see this here every day. An example of not a year ago: a few days after the Russian invasion, the spokesman of an independentist group echoed the bubble of Russian interference in the Catalunya independence process. I don't know if you remember: that of the young men who walk through Europe to meet with the wrong people thinking they're James Bond. And shortly thereafter, from this very rostrum, from here, President Pedro Sánchez took the opportunity to repeat the same lie. It was information that, by the way, its inventor, Daniel Alandete, the El País journalist, acknowledged in 2018 before the British Parliament's fake news commission that it was completely false information. Totally fake, mates. Totally fake. Another example is that the UN Working Group on Arbitrary Detentions and the recognized Toronto Citizen Lab Institute are nothing less than chiringuitos on the salary of Catalan independence. It is all right to discredit bodies or institutions that have issued reports that are contrary to Spanish interests; I say to you that these reports will give us much joy in Europe. I ended up with another more recent bubble, the one that Euroorders now have some chance of. Read the ruling of the EUJ. It doesn't matter what Judge Llarena, Minister Maria Jesús Montero, the president of the Supreme, Mr Marín, and the entire Spanish media horn: game over. President Puigdemont will return, yes, but not to plead with the Supreme, but to resume the struggle for independence. By the way, Mr Ramírez, the fact that Catalonia's political conflict with the state has ended is also a fake news. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u84	Thank you. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the Union Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, I have the floor Mr Pisarello Prados.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u85	Things as they are, ladies and gentlemen. If it is necessary here today to condemn the attempted coup d'état in Brazil on January 8th, it is because we have some rights that have been practicing somnambulisms for weeks in order not to do so. Other rights of the world, including those of Brazil, were concerned when they saw an angry mob that invaded and destroyed facilities of the three powers of the State with the complicity of the army. And not here. Here Mrs Gamarra, of the People's Party, joked that those wrecks in the three powers - I remind you - could be simple public disorders. [[Rumors.-Mr. Hispan Churches of Ussel pronounces words that are not perceived]] And then he did as some did during the 23F, kept a long silence in the networks, waited to see how it went out and, when he saw that the attempt failed and that even the European Union condemned, he took a distance. [[Rumors.-Mr Guijarro García and Mr Suárez Lamata and Mr De Olano Vela exchange words that are not perceived]] VOX, directly, hid, as if that afternoon were too heavy those pictures between Abascal and Bolsonaro, a president who by negationism condemned thousands of families humbled to death by Covid ; a president who, with the same economic program of VOX, left 33 million people hungry, 80% of Brazilians in debt and the worst income of work in ten years. [[Mr. Guijarro García: Shut up! -addressing a Member of the People's Parliamentary Group at the Congress-]] [[rumors.-Mr. Guijarro García: Bocazas.-Mr. De Olano Vela: Lower the tone]] [[Mr. De Olano Vela: You're here.-Mr. Guijarro García: I know I'm here.]] But let's be honest...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u86	Your Honor, just a moment, please. Mr. Guijarro, please. [[Rumors.-Various Members of the People's Parliamentary Group bench in Congress: Call him to order!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I have called him first to order, I do not know if you have heard him. Did you hear that? [[Mr. De Olano Vela: No]] For I ask all parties, please, to let the intervener do so, as I believe virtually all previous interveners have done. Continue, Mr. Pisarello, and, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u87	Well, actually, I'm gonna be honest. How is it going to surprise us that the People's Party and VOX did not condemn Bolsonaro's coup if they did not even condemn the Franco coup? How will it surprise us that they do not condemn Bolsonaro if they still admire Pinochet's heirs today, if they did not say anything when beatings occurred in Bolivia and even when they are able to criminalize, as happened here, the sixty people - many of them children - who were killed by the Dina Buluarte regime in Peru. [[Rumors]] We are not surprised, ladies and gentlemen, because the Bolsonaro economic programme and the one that defends VOX and the People's Party seem a lot like: lowering taxes to the rich, that the lack of investment sinks to public services, favoring the great renters and the masters of agribusiness; all this seems a lot like it. And it doesn't surprise either because when one listens to Ayuso, listens to Abascal or listens to Bolsonaro he actually sees the partners of a neo-colonial project that looks a lot and that has many centuries ago; a project that really needs the coup to exploit the peasant population, the indigenous population, the Afro population, to appropriate the water, to appropriate the lithium, to appropriate the oil; to bleed the open veins of Latin America, as our dear Eduardo Galeano said. In spite of that, ladies and gentlemen, your plans have not just been imposed because the resistance of the peoples is persistent, so we celebrate, in addition to condemning the coup, that President Lula reacted by dismissing the military who were accomplices of the coup uprising. Because, let us be clear, democracy will only survive if we are able to disarm with the force of law and the support of the citizenry to that violent ultra-right which considers illegitimate any Government other than its own and which is not at the service of one percent of all time. Because what we have to do is disarm that ultra-right that funds coups d'état because it does not tolerate a mechanical turnout like Lula or a poor black woman like France Marquez leading governments that want to bring food, education and health to the poor majority of their countries. It is precisely for this reason that condemning the attempted coup d'état d'baganarista should also force us to push for an international order contrary to the war and hatred that Bolsonaro represents. And in order for that to be possible, I also think - I have to say this with sincerity - that President Lula would have to be heard here more than Mr Josep Borrell, because what we need is for the rejection of neofascism to be accompanied by the active impulse of processes of diplomacymultilateral for peace, for the descalation of war and for the prosecution of all wars without double standards, because the opposite, ladies and gentlemen, is also to play the game of global handcuffing. There are the voices of the South, which we are being asked by Presidents Lula, Petro, Fernández and the Secretary-General of the United Nations; let us listen to them so that this proposal against coupism, which is brought here today, does not remain in mere words and commits us here now also to an autonomous transnational movement of the great powers in defense of peace, democracy and global justice. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u88	Thank you very much. [[Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea asks for the floor]] Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u89	I am asking for the floor under Rule 71, for falsehoods and inaccuracies that Mr Pisarello has shed.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u90	No, no, you don't have the floor, Your Honor, you don't have the floor. [[Protests]] We are not reopening the debate, I do not have the floor. [[Mr. Guijarro García: Please, what is to be heard in this House!]] Didn't Mr. Pisarello say... No, you don't have the floor. Sit down. Thank you so much. [[One Member: The Rules of Procedure!]] Mr Ramírez Carner, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u91	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u92	Thank you very much. - the People's Parliamentary Group at the Conference on the Urgent Articulation of a Global Strategy for Competitive Repositioning and Search for Better Income Levels for the Spanish Tourist Industry in the Context of the Uncertainties CURRENT ECONOMIC AND GEOPOLICS. [[File number 162/001133]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u93	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress concerning the urgent articulation of a global strategy of competitive repositioning and debugging of better levels of profitability for the Spanish tourism industry in the context of the current economic and geopolitical uncertainties. For the presentation of the initiative, Mrs Borrego Cortés has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u94	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. I support an initiative for which I call for the House to vote in favour, pointing out the importance of the tourism sector. What is obvious to this Member, to my parliamentary group and to a large part of society, is not obvious to the Government, since otherwise it would have been acting in another direction since the very beginning of the pandemic. State policy in capital cities is what a tractor sector requires, with a huge multiplier effect in other productive areas, such as the Spanish tourism sector. Let's remember: the most competitive tourist power in the world inherited by the Sánchez government upon its arrival. However, almost 13 % of the contribution to national wealth or more than 12 % of the contribution to total employment in our country does not appear by itself to be grounds for the Government to articulate, at least, a specific PERT which has been insistently demanding the sector - the entire Spanish tourism value chain - since the approval of the recovery plan. To have a leading sector in the world where technology is essential for competitiveness, where, together with a very high supply of employment, many people with high professional qualifications are needed, where sustainability is basic to seponteros, are not sufficient reasons for the government to give a unique treatment to ICO credits aimed at the tourist productive fabric. A sector, let us remember, with a very important weight in all the autonomous communities and a pillar for the socio-economic stability of many of them. But it does not seem enough for the government to carry out a specific global regulation that guarantees the autonomy of our autonomous governments but creates positive synergies, which serve to promote market unity by minimizing the legal uncertainty of all actors involved. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, the tourism industry is affected very quickly and sensitively by any economic or social disruption. As we pointed out in the explanatory statement of the initiative, in 2023, followed by COVID, the war in Ukraine and the wave of inflation, a global economic slowdown is taking place. According to the World Bank, growth will be limited to 1.7 in the world, with an even more worrying figure for Spanish tourism: for Europe, where there are some of our main markets for tourists, it is estimated that this growth will be flat. In Spain, despite the Government's optimism, if real gross disposable income for households fell by 5.8 in 2022, it is expected to be negative again in 2023. Moreover, as the Government has not made the structural reforms necessary to gain competitiveness, we are going to suffer far more intense problems than other countries in our environment. All of this directly affects and affects our tourism sector and demands that the Government take action for all sub-sectors and destinations. For the Spanish tourism system, inflation is posing a serious and persistent problem that complicates the exploitation account of an infinite number of tourism companies. Energy overruns, rising food prices, costs arising from environmental regulation over the last period are translated into narrowing margins, lower profits, falling investments and, consequently, a significant loss of competitiveness. Since Sánchez is president, Spain, according to the World Economic Forum, has dropped from first to third in tourism competitiveness, and although the activity indicators in 2022 show a significant recovery, in line with what is happening in other international destinations, we have not yet reached pre-pandemic tourist levels, and let us remember that Spain continues without recovering its pre-CODID GDP levels. With this scenario, the Government has not prioritized or placed tourism at the top of its agenda and continues to threaten the sector with new taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential to rule out any initiative aimed at setting up and applying taxes on air fuel, which would automatically increase the price of tickets. We are putting in place measures of a cross-cutting nature that the People's Party will implement from the Government at the end of this year, but in order for the year 2023 not to be a lost year, the Sánchez Government should act now. The Government is neither concerned nor concerned with the Spanish tourism sector. Imserso's social tourism programme is the clearest example of this. It is essential to improve and adapt all the global conditions of this program for the new season 2023-2024, because otherwise the continuity of the travel of our elders is in serious danger. Business support measures are needed, such as an ambitious Renovation Plan for the hotel industry or to cover some of the additional costs facing our hotel establishments; measures to delocalise and deconcentrate the tourist supply by promoting the greatest possible tourist vertebration at the territorial level or also public-private alignment and co-responsibility measures and, why not, public-public and private-private measures that include a commitment decided by the internationalisation of tourism companies, a plan to improve the qualification of tourism talent. Ladies and gentlemen, Spain's tourism brand is a key asset and partner in the competitiveness of our socio-economic system at the service of Spanish citizens and companies. Let us now put in place competitive measures to implement in the short term a difficult scenario, the current scenario, but let us not forget the structural challenges that the industry faces ahead of a changing and challenging post-pandemic tourist map. And I take the last seconds of this speech to tell you that my party, the People's Party, strongly condemned the coup in the Brazilian Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u95	Thank you. In defence of the amendment made by the VOX Group, I have the floor, Mrs Rueda Perelló. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u96	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they bring us an initiative with a socialist-style title, and I equate them with socialists not only because the PP follows the Socialist Party, but because they copy even the language. It calls me attention to the need for a global strategy when within their own party they have different criteria according to the barons of each region. It is striking that they talk about job creation when in Andalusia, where governmentsolos, jobs are created far below the average while Sánchez keeps us as leaders of unemployment in Europe. This shows that neither PP nor PSOE generate the necessary conditions for companies, SMEs and self-employed people to create employment. And I am drawn to the intervention of the lady of the People's Party, who points out to the government that the government does not put it on the top, forgetting that, for example, Moreno Bonilla closed the tourism business in Andalusia at six o'clock in the afternoon and all the measures they imposed in many autonomous communities. So we can now say that, after its disastrous policies, we are very proud to rule in the region that, according to the EPA, creates twice as many jobs in the whole of Spain and reduces unemployment five times as much as the national average. Spain needs a government that wants and knows how to promote job creation, one like Castile and León, which is the example of where things are done well. [[Applauds]] In this government, thanks to VOX, we have reduced political spending, we have cut subsidies to trade unions, and there are aids to the agricultural sector, birth, the defence of the family, pregnant women, aid schemes for entrepreneurs, traders and self-employed people, and this will be repeated where VOX governs. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative proposes various measures which aim to help the tourism sector, but forgets the problem of the indebtedness it suffers. They talk about avoiding fees, but the city council of Malaga, where the People's Party governs, joins the request of the left to apply the tourist rate. They speak of good management and municipalities such as Marbella, governed by the People's Party, maintain a high level of municipal indebtedness with games aimed at gender equality and sexual diversity, not to mention the alleged plot of corruption. And I must point out municipalities such as Madrid, whose Madrid Central de Carmena and Almeida impose sanctions, being a direct attack on the rights and freedoms of the Madridns, as well as a robbery to the pockets. The Spaniards face inflation, the rise of fuel, energy, food, beverages and above have to pay for the consequences of the deliriosideological of those who govern. In VOX we have always supported and recognized the importance of the tourism sector and politicians cannot help but say that businesses, that self-employed people are drowned and that they face problems of solvency and liquidity. That is why it is a durogolpe to the self-employed that because of the vote of PP, Podemos and PSOE they have increased the quota to the self-employed by 8.6%. The tourism sector suffers from the greatest indebtedness, the disappearance of companies, those who survive have great difficulties to pay bills and to find labour and demand from the Executive that these European funds, which do not arrive effectively, should arrive. Our obligation is to protect the Spaniards, to meet their needs and to equip the generations to come with a horizon of freedom, equality and justice. Our obligation is to preserve the productive fabric, promote job creation and ensure prosperity. And we know how to do it. Among other measures, the amendment we have tabled calls for the elimination of bureaucratic obstacles. We know this because we are committed to tax cuts, strong support for the self-employed and the abolition of subsidies to trade unions and other political and media bodies, and that is why we do not like them. The Spaniards suffered long years of division, ruin and attack and assault on our institutions, assault as when they withdrew the word from us the last time I went up to the rostrum to call things by their name and say what they all know: that this government should agree with 1. [[couptists and flotro-terrorists]] As a woman, I feel shame; shame of a government that releases rapists of women and girls...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u97	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You've drifted. Finish, please. Mr. RUEDA PERELLÓ:... it deals with the enemies of Spain, because it assaults the institutions of the state, because it releases those rapists. So, to the government of ruin, to the enemies of the nation, to the party of the armed, I tell you that we will remain vigilant and always in front of the government of the history of Spain, that government... [[The honourable Member concludes her speech with the microphone switched off.-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the stand]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u98	Thank you very much, Your Honor, your time is up. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the sitting on 23 November, that bad meeting, I will withdraw, while chairing, all the terms that are said in the spirit of offending, so they will be withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions. Thank you. Let's keep going. Mr Mazón Ramos has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u99	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr President. We are faced with such a prolific text that more than a non-law proposal seems to be an electoral programme. They are proposals that sound very good, it is difficult to be against them, but it must be said that many measures are like shooting with gunpowder from the king, since some are even insurmountable economically by the state. And they will say in the government that what the powers of the autonomous communities are for if here what it is about is to make all kinds of plans for everything and for the autonomous communities, even by developing them, but to pay for them by the state. There is a lot of demagogy and a lot of opportunism, although of course we are in favour of the tourism sector and in Cantabria always, since the ruling of the Regionalist Party, which has traditionally held this portfolio, our involvement has been demonstrated. In fact, Cantabria today has a great tourist attraction, and let's not say this year that, as you will know, the Holy Jubilee Year Lebanon is celebrated, which is one of the oldest permanent jubilees of humanity in the world, along with Jerusalem, Santiago and Rome, and which comes from the year 1512, because there is the largest known piece of the Lignum Crucis. On April 15th, the Gate of Forgiveness opens and a series of events begins that, beyond the strictly religious, are a tourist claim, and the campaign developed by the Government of Cantabria through the Council of Javier Marcano will be a milestone within national and international tourism and will leave a mark to remember. This is an example of how when the autonomous communities enhance our brand, Cantabria, we are also promoting and enhancing the brand Spain, which is one of the objectives of this non-law proposal. We agree with most of the proposals; however, we believe that it is very opportunistic and in some respects does not belong to a non-legislative proposal, so we are going to abstain, while recommending that you visit Liébana this year, because you will not regret it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u100	Thank you very much. Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. While I was preparing the intervention for this GNP, I began to review some data. It is true that if you listen to the parties that govern in the Canary Islands, everything goes so well that this GNP does not 1 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. It's necessary. We are in record tourism, we are going divinely and we would not even have to talk about this GNP. But, beyond this fever for these elections, which make everyone want to sell a reality that is not so, as I say, I have reviewed some data and the reality is that the Canary Islands lost over 2022 more than 650 000 tourists, and of those 650 000 tourists, Gran Canaria, one of the capital islands, accumulates more than 55% of the loss, showing that the loss of competitiveness of the destination. Also the reality - not what they tell us, but what it is - is that 7223 contracts of work were signed less than in 2019, almost 23% less employment than in the pre-pandemic figures. And along the way we have left behind the opportunity - the Canary Islands has left behind the opportunity - to have signed with the Government of Spain certain agreements of tourist infrastructures in order to rehabilitate, modernise and improve a tourist plant that made us more competitive in the market. So yes, the tourism sector still needs help. The tourism sector is one of the most powerful sectors in Spain and the world. Ten per cent of the world economy is generated by tourism and yes, Spain still needs measures to boost tourism. That is why we are going to support the GNP, despite the fact that, as the previous Member of Parliament said in his speech, my colleague Mr Mazón, this seems more like a late letter to the Magi than a materializable reality, but because of lack of illusion and I do not want it to remain, because very important measures are put in the middle, such as that of the CO2 emissions market, which is so damaging to the Canary Islands. Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that we have to fight this climate change. We have to reduce CO2 emissions, but penalizing an autonomous community for choosing a means of transport, when it is the only one it has, is unfair. We can talk about what is the economic impact of tourism economic entities, which is great. Canary Islands competes with destinations outside the European Union and this will make it less competitive, and we can calculate the economic damage this can cause, which is a lot, because tourists have no other way to get there. They can't get there by train, they can't get there by boat, they can only get there by plane. I believe that there are formulas more adapted to the ORs that could compensate for these CO2 emissions rather than harming the arrival of tourists by plane.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u102	Your Honor, you must finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u103	I'm done. As I say to you, this not only has an economic-tourism impact, it also has a social impact when the Canary Islands have no choice but to connect with Europe than the plane. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u104	Thank you. Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u105	Thank you, President. The GNP of the PP contains a broad list of measures of various kinds and content to be adopted urgently by the Spanish Government. These are measures of an institutional, labour, economic and fiscal nature, as well as measures of direct support to the hostelry and travel agencies. By the way, they are measures that they want us to approve the rest, perhaps to give support to their electoral programme to the general ones, because the fact is that all these measures have been announced by their group in the sectoral convention that their party held in Fuerteventura, such as the approval of the PERTE of the tourism sector, the modernization of the Imserso programme or the approval of a national plan of training and employment of quality for the tourism industry and to bet on rural tourism as a strategy against depopulation. Nor do they say that the year 2022 was closed with a positive balance for this sector compared to the previous two years. According to analysts, the sector is also in a position of strength or privilege if we compare it with other industrial sectors, since the strong recovery in tourist demand has responded with price increases, which has enabled the sector to maintain the margins and prepare for 2023, which, as in many other sectors, presents important uncertainties due to the international situation. In addition, they demand a series of measures from the Government as if it were starting from scratch. The Sánchez Government has already done something in recent years, such as the Tourism Sector Impulse Plan, tourist sustainability in destinations, a digital transformation plan for tourist destinations and tourism companies, a training plan, the Tourism Competitiveness Fund or Turespana. What we do not know, it is true, is what results have been achieved and what needs to be done, and this must be attributed to the Spanish Government and, in particular, to the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism, because tourism has been a priority in the past few years, since with the rest of the issues it seems to have been much more absent. It would have logically been that, on the basis of the results achieved in the various approved plans, appropriate action would have been taken. It is a motion that seems more like a compendium of measures reflecting the main demands made to the Government of Sánchez by various business associations, without having data, as I said, on the results of what this Government has done, and much less on the duties that the sector has pending. Nor do they say anything in the GNP about the Next Funds, because while there is no PERTE as such for the sector, the truth is that the tourism sustainability plans in destination have been financed with the recovery funds, and precisely a few days ago this measure has been reissued for the year 2023. It is also incomprehensible that they ask for a LOSS when we all know the shortcomings and problems that these LOSS are having, because moreover in this GNP they say nothing about their design, which is the main problem they have. We understand, of course, that the sector has to face the challenges that come, such as progress in excellence, sustainability, digitalisation, continuing to improve the training and qualification of workers and seeking differentiation; that is, offering a proposal of differentiated value to bring about a much more qualified demand. In short, moving from a sun and beach product model to a customer-based model, which customer wants to attract and what it values - culture, gastronomy and nature - and all this because, in fact, the rules of play have changed. The tourist is much more informed, his level of demand has increased exponentially and now demands products and services of much higher added value in the destination he chooses. That is why the sector must transform and collect this change and diversify its offer, but nothing is said about this either. All this must be done with the institutions competent in the field and with the sector, but once again you do not take into account, as always, that the competences in the field of tourism are in the autonomous communities and that these are the ones that know best not only the peculiarities and particularities of each territory, but also the strengths and weaknesses of the sector. Therefore, my group is not going to support measures that do not take account of the competition fields, proposed in addition to being fully centralised, when what they seek are, for example, homogenisations based on the Market Unit Guarantee Act, which my group of course did not endorse, or others such as promoting the elaboration and development of a tourism law within the State's economic planning competences, obviating the competences, as I have said, of the autonomous communities. Precisely, there is no need for a state law to boost the growth anddiversification of tourism and sustainable development by, of course, fostering territorial balance. We believe that this is a letter of intent or a marketing letter in the face of the new elections, and that is why we are not going to support it. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs Muñoz Vidal has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u107	President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. In my parliamentary group we have always argued, and especially since the end of the health emergency of the COVID-19 pandemic, that the tourism sector was and is one of the pillars of our economy, responsible for up to 12% of our gross domestic product, and that it should be treated as such in the recovery of our economic situation. Before the pandemic, more than 80 million international tourists visited our country, contributing, depending on the year, up to almost 100 billion euros to our economy. While these figures have improved in recent months with respect to the hecatombe of the pandemic, they have not recovered. And this means that the government must give tourism the same importance it gives to other key sectors, such as cars or energy. I am almost certain that the groups supporting the Government are going to come up here to defend everything the Government does to protect the tourism sector when in reality they are only putting sticks on the wheels of a sector that has already suffered a great deal with the pandemic. I'm sure they say they want to make Spain an international reference destination, but you have refused to remove the mask in public transport for months while other countries did. Even the corporate director of Iberia had to take their colors out in November telling them that the obligation to wear mask was diverting tourists to other locations. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, you also voted against this request from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. I must also tell you that the tourism sector - the hospitality sector and the hotel sector - is full of autonomous people who you, the Conservative Party, and you, the Socialist Party, raised the quotas of your regime last year in the vote on the law in August, which has had its effect on 31 January this year. It is argued by the Government that connectivity in Spain needs to be improved, but, for example, they buy or order trains that cannot fit through tunnels. In addition, I remind you that we have a large rail network, a high-speed network, and that, despite this, we still do not connect airports with more than five million passengers by trains, forcing and even increasing the use of vehicles and resulting in short-distance flights that could be resolved, for example, counter; but no, you prefer to flirt with the ban on short-distance flights - except the Falcon - and impose new taxes, for example, on airlines. It is true that the PSOE will go up here to say that tourism is a key sector in our economy and in our development because it is part of component 14 of our recovery and resilience plan, but I have to tell you that the declaration of tourism as a strategic sector does not serve without tangible measures that will boost and favour the sector, a sector that already doubts that the government really has a commitment to them, because from the amount of European funds only 5% was reserved for an economic tip such as tourism in our country. I also have to point out that I am sure that you say here, in this rostrum, that you defend tourism and I have to ask you why you have autonomous leaders who advocate or directly practice tourism, such as Mrs Armengol in the Balearic Islands, who sends messages such as that the future of the Balearic Islands is that they arrive less tourists or that the British are not welcome on the islands. Or why, in my region, the Valencian Community, rather than betting decisively on tourism, applies measures such as the tourist rate, as criticized by professionals in the sector. Tourism is a source of income, an economic engine and a huge generator of wealth for our country deserves serious and consistent treatment. In our parliamentary group and in our party we have always understood this and defended it here, in the Congress of Deputies, in the Autonomous Communities and also in Brussels. In conclusion - and I conclude, President - tourism is too important to take it seriously, as the government does, and as the opposition sometimes does, putting patches, legislating according to electoral appointments omitting any proposal that comes from the opposition just because it has not occurred to them. We will support any initiative, come from whoever comes, aimed at promoting recovery...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u108	You must finish, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u109	...of this sector so important to Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u110	Thank you. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u111	The People's Party has just presented its electoral programme in the form of a GNP. Tourism, truth, can be helped in many ways and one, in my way of understanding very good, is prestige of the tourist destination. I will give you an example: Valencia governed by Compromís, Joan Ribó. Year 2020, European Capital of Design; year 2024, European Green Capital; year 2026, headquarters of the Gay Games; year 2022, European Capital of Intelligent Tourism for its accessibility, sustainability, digitisation, cultural heritage and creativity. Instead, on Sunday in Valencia the People's Party in its municipalist convention claimed the past and in an obscene and hypocritical act claimed the figure of Rita Barberá. [[Protests]] The Valencian Courts urge Mrs Rita Barberá Nolla to renounce the senator's record in order to safeguard the dignity of the representation of Valencians and Valencians. [[Protests.-Mr Betoret Coll: I voted against!]] People's Party. People's Party. [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel: To the question!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u112	Your Honor, go finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u113	And you tell me the question is, when you come up here, you don't stop talking about the others? Man! Man! [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel: I'm talking about it!- Rumors]] Anyway, to the point. What did he claim...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u114	Your Honor, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u115	Yes, of course, but I've been interrupted. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u116	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Your time is up. Thank you very much. Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u117	Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. Let us try to return to the debate before us. The truth is that, as some other Member States have already pointed out, this proposal is more in line with the format - let me say - of an electoral programme, with measures in the public-private sphere, with measures of a labour nature, with measures of a business nature, with measures of an economic and fiscal nature, measures of dynamism and measures of relocation of the tourist offer and a whole range of proposals with no budgetary support to support them. It's a rain of ideas, some of which - I have to admit - are obviously good and we share them and others have completely taken us away. There is a certain refocusing spirit - it was pointed out earlier - in some of the measures proposed and at this point it must be remembered that the competences in the field of tourism also belong to the autonomous communities. Therefore, expressions such as drawing up a State tourist development law or questions, as they appear, on promoting the tourist brand Spain, obviously do not take into account other tourist realities that I am going to try to transfer to them. If I may, the truth is that Catalonia in the year 2022 has been one of the places where more international tourists have arrived, more than 14 million a year. In addition, Catalonia also ranks first in terms of rural tourism. Catalonia is the star of rural tourism in 2022, with almost 23.7% of this type of tourism. [[The lady]] Therefore, among the few measures that the People's Party puts here, without a doubt, there are some good ones. I am convinced that the Socialist Party is going to come out here and say that they do all these and many more, but what might be appropriate in this kind of debate would be, instead of five pages of measures and points proper to an electoral programme, to choose those that were truly transcendent and to ask the government to carry them forward, because the whole, as you know, without any budgetary support behind some of these measures, is a real toast to the sun. That is why we will not be able to support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u118	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. Mr Salvador i Duch has the floor for the Republican Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u119	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. [[Continue your intervention in French.-Applause]] First of all, gentlemen of the People's Party, there is nowhere to catch it: smoke, and nothing else. It reproduces absolutely archaic tourist paradigms, based on total territorial predation, which, yes, have given so many benefits to speculator entrepreneurs linked to political corruption and business privileges linked to right-wing parties and their parents in franchising, both Catalan and Spanish, alike. It is a model that promotes the gentrification yeternizes labor precariousness on the four sides, a model years sixty - last century, to understand us -, with a little makeup to give it a touch 2.0. As usual, we cannot take a PNL seriously from the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, tourism skills are, in our case, exclusive to the Generalitat de Catalunya. You're so chubby that you don't even comply with your own Constitution. The truth is, they're very tired. What we really want is for them to leave us alone at once and forget us, because there is no way to work in this country. Let's see if they do it at once, 'cause there's no way. Let us manage our tourist model. [[Applauds]] What I was going to say is that tourism promotion campaigns are already being done by us, that there are many types of tourism, that there are many brands of tourism and that it goes phenomenal and that its GNP attacks the fiscal autonomy of the autonomous communities. If you don't want to put tourist fees, don't put them on, but don't stop who does want to put them on. Actually, it's been decades of delay. Fees are a regulatory instrument of the type of tourism; fees are an instrument present in many tourist destinations. Without going further, they exist in the main tourist powers of the world - there are rates in the United States, in France, in Italy, etc. - and you propose to eliminate them. It's just that they're unholy. No wonder you and your acolytes don't have a single mayor in Catalonia. In short, we will vote no to your GNP. But first we want to take advantage of it to demand that the government of the PSOE and the United Nations allow us once again to accelerate and bring the Next Generation funds to the territories in an equitable and non-discriminatory manner and to bet on the decarbonization of the tourism economy. We have to recover the natural spaces, we have to recover the coasts and eliminate cement. Without natural spaces recovered, there is no future. And coasts and beaches are part of your competition; they are yours, and there you are not doing very well. In conclusion, I would like to take the time to claim to the Government that the rates paid to establishments with contracts for the Imserso are very low, they have been completely out of date. They must, as a matter of urgency, increase the price paid to establishments hosting these programmes for two reasons: because of the dignity of the service given to pensioners and because these programmes are also an opportunity to extend the season, since, by allowing open facilities, they can host tourism from other parts of Europe with less benign climates. Extending the season is crucial and well-funded Imserso programs are an opportunity, especially so that workers can have for more months a wage to bring home. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Salvador. Mrs Jover Díaz has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u121	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, most people are well aware of how far the People's Party is from the issues affecting the great social majority in our country, and this GNP demonstrates its distorted view of reality. Talking about the strategy and impulse of the tourism sector for the citizens of the Balearic Islands and the tourist areas is something similar to talking to a farmer about the heavy rains and the effect it has on their fields: on the one hand, he knows that he will be able to fill his deposits, but, on the other, he knows that if the rain is too intense he will end up wreaking havoc on him. Our group is fully aware that tourism remains one of the most important engines of the Spanish economy, accounting for 12% of gross domestic product, while in the Balearic Islands it accounts for more than 40%. Therefore, we know very well what it means to live from tourism, although we also know its effects. As Mrs Prohens's People's Party speaks of a feeling of massification, the reality of citizens is that they live in one of the regions with greater human pressure from all over Europe. While it is true that it is one of the most efficient sectors for job creation, at the same time it has negative externalities that every responsible government should contemplate, such as, for example, the ecological footprint that tourism leaves on the territory or the economic ecosystem that generates its dependence, based on a greater generation of inequality and jobs that, even today, remain precarious and low-quality. For everyone who bets to learn from memory, I would like to remember that we learned a lot from the pandemic. Not only did we learn to be more supportive and to give support and recognition at times of difficulty, but we also learned how vulnerable we can become without a resilient, self-sufficient and diversified economy. Focusing on the tourism sector is necessary as long as it is treated as one more gear of the country's economy. But do you really think you should be treated differently from other strategic and future sectors, such as energy transition, innovation, science, industry or the primary sector, which are much less dependent on external conjectures? Spain remains one of the most attractive tourist destinations, and the data shows this: we remain in the top 3 countries with a greater influx of tourists worldwide. We have already recovered virtually the same level of visitors as before the health crisis. The same International Tourism Fair, Fatur, estimates for 2023 a growth of 15% in all tourism parameters compared to the previous year. Therefore, we do not see today a worrying situation for the tourism sector, as we did during the pandemic, when through mechanisms such as ERTE or direct aid we were able to soften the effects of the health crisis. This GNP is not only part of a wrong analysis of the situation, but also clearly defines who the policies of the People's Party are directed to. To present a text of impetus to the tourism sector without making a single mention of any of these points to an improvement in the working conditions of its workers is, at least, unworthy. What they have not forgotten has been to add several points for business support or to improve its benefits, which shows once again what its real priorities are. No one is going to be surprised if I say that the model of country being pursued by the People's Party is totally opposed to what we are planning from the Podemos. While the People's Party seeks to promote a brand of country that promotes us from outside as if we were a product suitable for consumption, we, on the other hand, see a brand of country that respects the labour rights of all, that protects our environmental balance and our agricultural sector, that it is based on sustainable and green energy, that drives the knowledge industry and that tolerance and respect are imposed on the threats of hate policy; a brand of country, in short, for a prosperous country, but justlysocially. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u122	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jover. For the Socialist Group, Mr Durán Peralta has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u123	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with this GNP you show that you do not know the tourist activity or the economic data of our country or, which could be worse, that you know them, but that as long as you attack the government you are willing to lie and generate all kinds of noise. But it's not all worth it. You cannot underestimate the capacity of the tourism sector, which during an unprecedented global break has been able to transform and regain its almost complete activity. And this is thanks to the companies that bet on quality and innovation and, above all, to the workers who, with their professionalism, provide a magnificent service to our tourists. From here, all our recognition to the staff working in the tourism sector. And let me mention the housekeepers, an invisible and precarious group, whose reality I know well. They all remind us of the importance of the human factor. That is why this Government has been committed to defending the rights of workers through labour reform, which has increased the number of indefinite contracts, especially in this sector, where there was a great deal of time, and also raised the minimum inter-professional wage to EUR 1080. Also, thanks to the Government's unprecedented investment, companies have been prevented from being closed down and workers fired, supporting the tourism sector with direct aid, with ICO lines, reducing the electricity bill, helping to transform the sector green and digital, with tourism sustainability plans, with the experience plan or trade aid in tourist areas. By the way, you voted against all those measures that benefit the tourism sector. I am from the province of Malaga, where the tourism sector is an international benchmark, and I know perfectly well the positive impact that the government's measure is having on companies and workers and I also know the importance of public investment to boost tourism in the territories. Therefore, from this rostrum, I want to highlight President Pedro Sánchez's bet for Malaga, with the candidacy of Malaga as the venue of the Expo in 2027, certainly a very important milestone for my land and for the whole of Spain. [[applause]] All this work has made us have the next reality of the tourism sector today. I'll show you. We have recovered nine out of ten international tourists. Extra-hotel overnight stays have reached the prepandemic figure. 95 % of total expenditure has been recovered. The average daily expenditure and also the duration of overnight stays have been increased. As regards the labour market, tourism affiliates have grown by almost 3% in relation to 2019. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, here you have the reality of tourism in Spain. Do you think this situation is catastrophic? In their GNP they also underestimate the good economic data that Spain has today, when GDP grew in 2022 to 5.5%, above all the macroeconomic projections made by the Bank of Spain, the European Commission, the OECD and the AIReF. What do you think we have surpassed all economic projections? What do you think of the international praises and the Davos World Economic Forum, which places Spain on the locomotive of Europe? What do you think we have the lowest inflation in the eurozone? What do you think of us having the highest number of busy people in our country's history? Aren't they really happy? Aren't you happy for your country? Do you think that people understand that you have that catastrophic discourse, so far from reality? Ladies and gentlemen, that is why people are not saying that you are a serious alternative to government, because you have lost your perception of reality. Therefore, in the face of the ashes, citizens will continue to support the hope and illusion represented by this parliamentary group and this Government. You continue to do that opposition, which we will continue to govern Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Durán. Mrs Borrego, do you accept your group's amendment?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u125	No, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u126	All right. Thank you very much. The non-legislative proposal shall be voted on in its terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u127	We then proceed to discuss today's final point, the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group into the institutional crisis caused by the Government's actions and initiatives in relation to the constitutional bodies, the territorial structure of the State and the criminal reforms to reduce the seriousness of certain crimes. For the author group of the initiative and for the defence of the motion, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u128	Thank you, Madam President. No, this is not a normal motion. This is not a normal motion with a normal content directed at a normal Government. Why? Because under normal circumstances this motion would not be necessary. In fact, I am convinced that any Democrat from another country would come here and look at the content of this motion would be very surprised that these are requests from the opposition to a Spanish government. But the more surprised that Democrat from another country would be would be tossed that this government and its supporting parties will probably vote against because they do not comply with one of the precepts included in this motion. And yes, we recognize that, this motion calls for very basic, very simple things. It is not an ideological motion, it is a motion that calls for basic questions in a rule of law. For example, we call on the Government to respect judges and judicial grievances. Yes, it should not be necessary, but in Spain it is essential. Secondly, we call on this Government not to make a penal code in the form of separatists convicted of sedition, who publicly say that they are going to do so again. Yes, it should not be necessary, but it must be remembered every day that this is the only government of Spanish democracy that has dared in a month to change the Penal Code in order to benefit four privileged politicians who support them. Third, what does this motion ask that is not normal? He called on the Government not to favour the corrupt, not to make it easier for politicians to steal public money. It turns out that the Government, which supposedly arrived to clean up the institutions from corruption, is the one that is giving the most facilities to the evildoers and the corrupt of all life. What else does this motion ask that is not normal? For the Government should not continue to give even more privileges to the separatists and should not continue to grant them barbarities, such as giving them a blackmail table, where separatism represents Catalonia as the main premise. And finally, what does this motion ask that is not normal? That the Government undertake not to allow a referendum to segregate a part of our country. And yes, those who say that today it is impossible for Sanchez to give an illegal referendum to his associates are the same who told us that it was impossible for them to be pardoned, that it was impossible for them to eliminate the crime of sedition or that it was impossible for them to dare to facilitate the misappropriation in our country. And let no one have any doubt about this: we are much closer to seeing Sánchez and Iceta counting votes in a cardboard ballot box in Catalonia than to seeing them comply with the Constitution in Catalonia and defending the police and the civilian guards. We're so much closer to the first than the last. Therefore, this motion is not ideological, this motion is of common sense, and it does not appeal only to the Government, it appeals to each and every Member of this House. Look, the main test of the very rapid degradation this Government has brought about for Spain is that in 2018 Sánchez had to call elections for the rapporteur's theme. Do you remember the one I read about by the rapporteur? Today the rapporteur would not be a sad teletype. But the speed of this government's scumbag for state institutions is demonstrated by the fact that, since we have registered this motion until today, things as serious as the following have happened in just a few weeks. Look, PSC councillors have acknowledged that they kicked civilian guards and hotel cops out. Has something happened? No, the Socialist Party has defended them. But what happened too? That the Government has abandoned the police officers who, by fulfilling their duty on 1 October, by obeying orders on 1 October, are having problems with the justice system, and have no defence on the part of the Minister of the Interior. Or just a few hours ago we learned that the Socialist Party led by Illa, which is the closest to the Republican Left Party we've ever had, has approved budgets that shoot money at the wrong so-called embassies, those placement agencies where people charge a lot and are dedicated to making separatist propaganda around the world. By the way, speaking of separatist propaganda and offices, to do that separatist propaganda what you, gentlemen of the government, have achieved, is something that Esquerra had never dreamed of, and it is that the central office of propaganda against Spain is now in Madrid, now in Moncloa. The only solid thing Sánchez is going to leave is the alliance, and not just the parliamentary alliance, but the electoral alliance, because voting for the Socialist Party today is voting for Esquerra's electoral program, but not the electoral program fifteen years ago, no, today's electoral program, which is much more advanced in its separatist aspirations. What the Government is doing has serious consequences for democracy, for public services, for the police, for institutions, for judges. You should not touch the Penal Code with a stick, because with suchectarism you move away from any technical criteria. You should have a restraining order from the Criminal Code; you should not approach it. They should only approach to solve that bottling error of the law of yes is yes, but they are much more focused on their fights than on keeping rapists out of jail. And this didn't start with Pedro Sánchez. Spain's institutional degradation has not begun with Pedro Sánchez. It has worsened and accelerated, but it began much earlier. And not only must we get Pedro Sánchez out of Moncloa, which is an imperative need, we must dare to change the Electoral Law, but not for what Mr Feijóo wants, which is that he continues to govern bipartisanism always, but to remove parliamentary overrepresentation from the nationalist parties. We must recover the crime of illegal referendum, which Mr Rajoy did not dare to do. It is necessary to eliminate hindrances so that he has not been accused in the institutions of either the PP or the PSOE or any other party. The independence of the judges must be undermined so that neither the PP nor the PSOE nor any other party can distribute it to them. Independent persons must be placed in the control bodies so that neither the PP nor the PSOE do not hand it over to them. We must really reform systems that can break down, such as the pension system.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u129	Mrs. Arrimadas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u130	I only ask the Spaniards to think about what is the only party that can dare to do all these things. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u131	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. In defence of the amendments tabled by the VOX Group, Mr Sánchez García has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u132	With the venom. This is a fully relevant motion, even though we have tabled an amendment to amend it. It responds to the harsh and nefarious days of the processing of a proposal for an organic law, taking advantage of the opportunity of the partial transposition of European directives, in order to grant a covert pardon to those convicted of crimes of embezzlement, those convicted of the acts of October 2017, commonly known as the separatist coups, and to Mr Griñán, in the embezzlement of hundreds of millions of euros in the fraud of the EREs, in Andalusia, ruled for so many years, as forty, by a corrupt socialist government, and also in order to pardon in a covert manner the condemnedparatists for the crime of sedition, an offence that is abolished by the Criminal Code. [[applause]] All this with the additional scope to try to ensure impunity in Spain of Puigdemont and others that have been removed from the action of the Spanish justice even though they are investigated in a formal, criminal sense, and despite the very recent judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 31 January 2023, which declared disagreements with the law of the European Union the resolutions of the Belgian courts, which have denied the execution of the European arrest warrants issued by the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court against those, among others, I repeat, Puigdemont, paving the way for Spain to definitively denounce the Kingdom of Belgium before the Commission and possibly to sue it before the Court of Justice of the European Union in accordance with the Treaty. [[Applauds]] With this, the Government could take some initiative to hand over Puigdemont and his followers to the Spanish justice system. Is the government going to do it? Because now, with this amendment of the Criminal Code, there is less risk that those convicted and those investigated for serving the sentences or being sentenced to such penalties, and the Catalan separatism, which is the one that achieves and sustains Sánchez's survival in Moncloa, would not be so much taken into account by the Government, however shameful this may be for all Spaniards. Yes, we are facing an institutional crisis after the terrifying plenary session prior to the decision of the Constitutional Court on 19 December and the criminally relevant statements by Bolaños and the President of the Government on the weekend, the 15th of September, with an absolutely embarrassing intervention by the socialist spokesman, who said that the judges of the Constitutional Court were coups with toga. Moreover, in a circumstance - I say - in which these statements constitute offences, clearly, at least that of an attack on the independence of judges, article 508.2 of the Criminal Code. [[Applauds]] I must also mention as unacceptable the intervention of the President of this House - to whom I respectfully say this, but decisively - because she refused to suspend the legislative procedure and therefore refused to exclude Amendments 61 and 62 from that proposal, which was finally decided by the Constitutional Court. And it was said with a great deal of ignorance, with a great deal of defach and with absolute shame that the Constitutional Court could not suspend the procedure of the bill. But how will it not be possible to suspend the processing of the proposed law by the court that can declare the law unconstitutional! This is known to children who study civics at any Spanish school. [[Applauds]] You have no idea. Its defachation is characteristic of a totalitarianism with a democratic fist, in the worst sense. Rubio Llorente, a constitutionalist exile from the Socialist Party, has already denounced it, referring to a similar circumstance in the 1931 Constitutional Courts in an article published in 1983, whose reading I beg you, although I know that this plea will fall into emptiness. Well, after all this, we're the same.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u133	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u134	The fully politicised Constitutional Court, contrary to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which requires it not to depend on politics. In this situation, what do we do? Well, there's nothing we can do. Wait for the end of the legislature, which will end with more morally solvent legislative initiatives and with these violations of the Constitution, of which you are constant protagonists.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u135	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u136	But we will continue here, we or other Spaniards who will continue to defend national unity and a traditional understanding of what is the conception of life and existence. Nothing more. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u137	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Betoret Coll has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I am speaking on behalf of my group in order to establish a position and defend the amendment we have tabled to this motion by the Citizens' Group this afternoon. It is clear that Spain is experiencing a social crisis and that it is now at the door of an economic crisis as a result, on the one hand, of the pandemic and, on the other hand, of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, but, fundamentally, of the poor management that the Government is making of this situation, because, far from setting in motion silent reforms and tax cuts that lighten the burden borne by the suffering citizens, it has decided to impose an ideological agenda that runs contrary to what the gravity of the situation requires. Therefore, we are also faced with an institutional crisis, and I explain myself. This ideological agenda implies the attack and demonization of any person or institution that does not comply servilely with the postulates of the Government and its partners, and to this end, a narrative has been constructed that tains fascists, among others, judges and magistrates, when, in application of the law and in exercise of the constitutional function entrusted to them, they make decisions contrary to the governmental narrative. Seeing what is happening with the law of the ground is yes: more than forty rapists on the street and you, the most feminists in Europe, fighting and not solving the problem that you yourselves have created. All very progressive. [[Applauds]] As I said, in order to implement this ideological agenda they have not hesitated to colonize the country's main institutions with positions of maximum confidence of the Government in order to control opinions, reports and resolutions: the CNMV, the Prosecutor's Office, the CNMC, Indra, the CIS, the Transparency Council, the Nuclear Security Council, Spanish Broadcasting and, recently, the INE. Nor has he shaken their pulse with the General Council of the Judiciary. First, they restricted their skills, changed the majority and eliminated the guarantees to achieve the desired end, which was nothing but a constitutional court of kin. For what? To try to stop the Constitutional Court from issuing resolutions calling into question, when they do not fall, the terrible legislative activity of an executive that governs on the basis of real decrees, stealing the debate from the Chambers and regardless of the consultative bodies and their reports. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is necessary for our country, and especially the Government, to start a path of wisdom respecting the separation of powers, democratic institutions and the legal system. Something absolutely consistent. We believe it is essential to reverse the reform of the Criminal Code, which has been done in the same way as convicted persons, because our laws, especially our criminal legislation, must be at the service of our rule of law and our institutions and not at the service of the Government and its electoral needs. It is therefore essential to recover the crimes of sedition, of convening an illegal referendum and to reverse the reductions in penalties in the crime of embezzlement. It seems urgent to stop humiliating the Spaniards at a table of shame that every time he meets he kneels down to a weak, servile and sloppy government to blackmail State institutions for the benefit of a few. The Government must treat all communities equally and stop making concessions to those who want to break our country. And at this point I would like to remind you that some of us did not shake our pulse in defending legality and the right-wing state when it was needed. There were precisely no concessions. The law was applied in defence of the constitutional order. Ladies and gentlemen, we share the need for a firm commitment to the fight against corruption and the defence of Spain's territorial integrity, without in any way relaxing the maximum level of demand in these two matters. We believe that it is necessary to ensure the presence of State institutions in each and every autonomous community, without exception, avoiding errors such as allowing the departure of the Navarra Civil Guard. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to express our support, respect and highest consideration for our State security forces and bodies in the defence of our country, our Constitution and our rule of law. [[applause]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Betoret. Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u140	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mrs. Arrimadas was right. This motion is of great political importance. Obviously, we already know the result of that before the vote takes place. This afternoon we saw how we talked about the democracies and the danger that distant democracies had, but we did not talk about Spanish democracy. It seems that nobody here wants to remember that until twelve years ago in Spain, the person who did not belong to a nationalist party and for defending other ideas was murdered. And that seems to have been forgotten, without taking into account that the last leader of that band belongs to one of the parties of the organization that supports this government and makes it possible for this government to exist. But that's better not to talk about; that wasn't an attack on democracy, that had to be something else. I mean, here you were killed for thinking different, but from that, better, let's move on. And here we are now talking about a pact that is made with Esquerra, that a crime is committed, that they are condemned for that crime, that they want to subvert what is the democratic state in the Catalan community and, by extension, the whole of Spain, and what is done? Once convicted, they are forgiven for the crime because it is good for the government to continue to rule. Isn't that an attack on democracy? Of course, it is an attack on democracy, because the rules of the game are being changed for a particular interest taking into account very serious crimes and when, moreover, it is said that they are going to be done again. That is what has been said, but as it is of interest for the Government to continue to function, it will be necessary to say which pact in return. We are now seeing in the budget that the Government of Spain says: No, if the process is already over. Sure! If you give them everything they want, then it's always over. If you let them vote and then decide, then the process will be over, and so you live phenomenal in Catalonia. Some will live in Catalonia phenomenal, others many equally do not live so well. But that doesn't matter, those, what else! If they have succeeded among all that Catalan is associated with a party or a feeling such as nationalism and not with Catalonia as a whole! It's the target. Right now they have concluded agreements that they do is to give reason to what those who were before in the Government of Catalonia said that there are subsidies to pursue those who speak in Spanish and force them to speak in Catalan, and the parties are up, also to open more embassies to criticize the Government of Spain and the Spanish nation. All this is done by the Socialist Party, the Socialist Government, why? Because in the end it's another day in the Moncloa. But, of course, the days in the Moncloa will end at the end because we are still a democracy and there will be elections and, of course, when there are these elections, obviously, the Spanish will vote, and they will know how to distinguish those who do not defend the interests of the whole of Spain, but who defend the particular interests of the Socialist Party, Pedro Sánchez, to be in the Moncloa, and who, of course, are leaving in very bad place a lot of Catalans who do not want to be nationalists. No matter how many gestures they make to me, don't think that that's why I'm going to miss talking about Euskal Herria Bildu, who, obviously, are very well there taking out what they wanted to get out, which is, of course, the great clumsiness of this government, that you have bleached them, because you never thought it would cost them so little to bleach. Without the need to condemn not only a terrorist act, but quite the contrary, to be proud of the terrorist band ETA, they have managed to get the Government to do what you decide it to do. That, of course, is an aberration, it is a barbarity, and I hope that the Spanish in the forthcoming elections will change the future of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u141	Thank you, Mr. García. For the Basque Parliamentary Group EAJ-PNV, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u142	Thank you very much, President. If I may, I will speak from the seat, because I will do so briefly, simply to state that we will not give our support to the motion. The issues we have raised have been discussed extensively in this Parliament and in others. It basically calls for a series of decisions by this House and the Government itself on the Catalan process to be reversed. These are decisions that, from our point of view, are well taken, so, as far as this House is concerned, we have supported them: the reforms of the Criminal Code, which we believe have led to and have deflamed a political conflict around the different sensitivities of belonging. And precisely it has disinflamed it by the treatment that was being applied to this constitutional conflict through interventions in Catalan autonomy, through the forces and bodies of insecurity of the State, through the judges, through the criminal judges and through the Criminal Code. It was a conflict that was in a dead end. So our parliamentary group has been adopting all those decisions which, as I said, have been deflamming the conflict. We therefore find this reversal of the reforms of the Criminal Code, which, by the way, are being called upon by the Government when decisions have been taken by this House and which only this House can take, even some other matter that segregates a little - let us say - lateral, such as the removal of the difference in the Constitution of nationalities and regions. Of course, it seems to us to be a genuine nonsense to ask the Government to do so. In any case, it would have to be with a reform of the Constitution and a referendum. Thank you very much. We will not support the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Boadella Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u144	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. This monotonous and repetitive speech, Mrs Arrimadas, with all due respect, you know the election result you gave in the last elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, which fell from thirty-six seats to six. But beyond that I think this speech is already exhausted, the truth is that it is totally contradictory with what Mr López-Bas pointed out to us earlier in the non-law proposal regarding what happened in Brazil. She pointed to a kind speech, to an appeal to rigor, and if they review the texts of her own motion, talk about the blackmail table, talk about the dismantling of the Penal Code. I am convinced that you know that it is not the dismantling of the Penal Code, but it is the repeal of standards, that it is the adoption or amendment of the Penal Code. And I am also convinced that you know that what you label as a blackmailing table is part of a verbal argument so as to try to capture some voters, but not held strictly in the political debate. It even allows the PP to tell them that no, that it is not the blackmail table, but that it is the shame table. All this does is pave the way for the people of VOX, who, with the bulges that have dropped here in the previous speech, seem to be unaware of the power of the inviolability of parliamentary interventions, because it seems that it is even a crime to speak from the rostrum of Congress. Or it even points to the question of the Constitutional Court, when it is taught in legal careers that there are questions of competence, that there are remedies of unconstitutionality, questions of unconstitutionality, remedies of amparo, but all about laws, not about proposals for laws, about debates of laws or about ideas of laws. With this, this debate, as pointed out earlier, sincerely, I believe that it is more than exhausted, electorally it will no longer give you more of itself and, of course, it does not contribute at all to recognizing that there are people who think differently than you. Democratically, we will find a way to resolve this political controversy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u145	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion we are debating points, among other things, to the undue interference of the Government with State bodies such as the Legislature and the Constitutional Court. And it is not wrong to point out that a change in the regime of appointment of members of the Constitutional Court - in itself a complex, important, organic legislative reform - is an abuse of the legislative procedure. But it is an abuse of so many, because preventing debates and violating the jus in officium of parliamentarians also does so by the Constitutional Court itself when, with improper mandates of its role as a negative legislator, it ignores the inviolability of parliamentarians. This in Catalonia we know what's going on. And so does the Bureau of Congress when, supplanting the role of the Constitutional Court, it prevents the deliberation of initiatives by parliamentary groups. Now, let no one get confused; so far we have arrived, because the rest of the motion is nothing more than a top ten topic of Spanish national constitutionalism. Because as much as you, gentlemen of Citizens, repeat what the Liberals are talking about, the motion that they are presenting, in any case, is about a liberalism that has much to do with the topics of Spanish quarterly nationalism of the past and little with the principles of freedom and democracy of the Europe of the 21st century, as has just been demonstrated by the intervention of the representative of the VOX Group. They call for the cessation of public statements that coerce judges and challenge courts and comply with court decisions. [[Rumors]] It seems very good to me, but I'm going to ask you a question: will you two shut up...?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u147	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u148	I think it is very good that you ask that the statements that compel judges and courts to cease, perfect, but are you going to shut up when a Belgian, German or Italian judge returns Mr Llarena's Euroorders, pursuant to last week's judgment of the Court of Justice? Are you going to abide by the European judgment that recognises the immunity of Catalan independent European parliamentarians and that President Puigdemont crosses the border? Are you going to abide by this sentence? Are you going to listen to her? Because you, and I also include the Sánchez Government here, forget that the framework we are in is that of the European rule of law, and the ECJ has issued a constitutional ruling on rights which sets common minimum standards that are above the 27 legal systems of the countries of the European Union. Without going into detail, this judgment makes judicial cooperation between States conditional on the principles of Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union, especially human and minority rights, and this includes the rights of objectively identifiable groups, such as - according to the United Nations, according to the Council of Europe, according to the European Court of Human Rights - the political representatives of the Catalan national minority. The legal battle in Europe is being clarified. Now the political battle will begin.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u149	Mr Pagès, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u150	Will the government, the opposition, the institutions, the judiciary, the rules of play comply? You're gonna take care of them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u151	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u152	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. It is clear that our vote is going to be a no to this motion, and it is that we are tired of talking about the same thing all the time. That's how it goes. You, Mr de Ciudadanos, in your motion speak of the poor democratic quality of the Spanish State and, without being used as a precedent, I must give you the reason. In the Spanish State, it is clear that the quality of democracy is very poor. It is very bad when you imprison people, political prisoners, for organizing a referendum, which is not a crime, as you recognise in your motion, at the point I think third or fifth. The quality of democracy is also bad when there are more than two thousand people in Catalonia who are accused of exercising their right to freedom of expression and expression. So I say that the quality of democracy in the Spanish state is very bad. And what about the Spanish judicial system and the high offices of the judiciary; we all know how they think and, therefore, how they interpret and apply the laws of this country's high courts. [[Applauds]] With the reform of the Penal Code we wanted to show the great contradictions that exist in the Spanish State and that many people opened their eyes and saw that the Spanish State is about to make the democratic transition, because I have not yet made it; and that there is still a post-Franquist elite in many areas such as justice, the army, etc. There was an international consensus where bodies as important - and which you despise - as the UN or the Council of Europe were tired of demanding the Spanish State to repeal the crimes of rebellion and sedition, because they considered them political crimes. We do not say this, says the Cilevics report, which, by the way, I recommend that you read, because it specifies it very clearly. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, this motion shows that you do not know the territorial reality of your State, and that of Catalonia even less. First, we were surprised that they wanted to delete the terms 'nationalities' and'regions'. Anosotras doesn't care, because we are independenceists and in the end we are here to work and achieve the independence of my country, which is Catalonia! [[Applauds]] But, well, other regions that read this won't be very happy with you. And secondly, because in Catalonia 80% of citizens want to vote in a referendum, decide the territorial and political future of our country, and that is an unquestionable fact. That's why you in Catalonia are extinct. Our obligation, and that of all of you, is to respond to the demands of the people, to fulfil what we promise in our electoral programs, and that is why we will continue to work and do whatever it takes to achieve the independence of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Telechea. Mr Uriarte Torrealday has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u154	Dear President, dear colleagues. Dear Mrs Arrimadas, I have read deeply all the motion you have tabled, you say it is a motion that lacks ideology. I, honestly, find nothing of liberal ideology in any paragraph; all that there are arguments proper to the liberal rights, the anti-liberal rights. The diagnosis of the situation itself is a totally wrong diagnosis. The diagnosis that there is a constitutional crisis or an institutional crisis that conceals a series of errors as if it were something casual is not believed by anyone. The 350 people we are here know perfectly well that the institutional crisis is a strategy of the liberal right in all the countries of the world, that is, this is not an Iberian exception. The same thing happens in the United States, the same has happened in Brazil. As soon as the anti-liberal rights are displaced from the government, they automatically use violence to twist the popular will and expression of national sovereignty, or simply resort to their conservative and reactionary support in the judiciary to do what they did in the United States to overthrow from the Supreme the federal character of the right to abortion, which was fifty years of progress in the United States, or to overthrow, as happened last week by the Supreme of Portugal, the law of euthanasia. Of course, one cannot be justified by saying that what he is trying to do is to twist the popular will expressed in the ballot boxes, but he always seeks that excuse for technical errors. In that sense, I have not really understood anything of your intervention; I have not understood your furious attacks on the law of the law alone is yes, which you voted for very little ago and defended furiously. I saw them applaud and now I take it that, as it is not right, they go to the opposite side and where I said, I say Diego. [[Applauds]] Consistency shines by its absence. Much more coherent is the discourse of an illiberal right, such as the speech that Sánchez has made on behalf ofVOX, which clearly opposes anything that is self-determination, anything that is free will, because they have a concept of the family and of the person who is the classic and who denies people's will, because people who are not probed into their lives can neither decide who they marry nor when they stop marrying, nor when they want to be mothers. These are things that are imposed on them from the outside, denying free will, and this is congruent that VOX defends it, but it is a little incongruent that someone who claims to be liberal defends it. Institutional crisis. Obviously, it is an institutional crisis strategy, we see it in the appointment of constitutional bodies. Article 122 of the Constitution obliges me, Roberto Uriarte, deputy for Vizcaya, to appoint, on behalf of the Congress, the persons corresponding to me in the General Council of the Judiciary. Article 122. Congress and the Senate shall appoint their representatives to the General Council of the Judiciary. Why can't I fulfill the mandate of Article 122 of the Constitution? I cannot do so, because in order to fulfil that mandate the obligation must also be fulfilled by the rest, because since that mandate can only be fulfilled by three-fifths of the votes, it turns out that if some people fail, they force others to fail and prevent us from fulfilling our constitutional mandate to renew constitutional bodies in time and form. [[Applauds]] That is an attack on the institutions, that is an institutional crisis. Let's go to the Penal Code. I already told you that I have not understood anything you have said: do not touch the Penal Code, when you have been voting for and applauding the reform of the Penal Code yesterday. There we are. And nobody understands it - my forgiveness, it is not necessary to have read John Locke or to have read the Second Treaty on Civil Government, it is first of all liberalism - because liberalism does not marry with punitiveism; punitiveism and liberalism are like water and oil. You unfortunately never go out on the street, you never go out to claim anything if it's not when you summon José María Aznar, the leader of the Spanish right, to go together to defend what? More nationalism and more punitiveism. That's the only thing that moves them. So, punitiveism with liberalism I don't understand. I think they shoot themselves in the foot. I mean, you want to develop a strategy that you say is centrist, and yet you go through the delegitimization of all the left and all the nationalisms. That is, we delegitimize 60% of the political spectrum and want to develop a center strategy, to negotiate with whom? You can only be the palm trees of the right and liberal. It's just that you guys are working on it yourself! And finally, the proof of cotton that the institutional crisis is strategic: if it were not, if the institutional crisis were a consequence of the causes you say and the errors of the Government, what would be the consequence? We wouldn't know the solution. The solution would be complex and we would not know when it would arrive, and yet we know perfectly well when the solution to the institutional problem that this country has, which has been addressed there, will arrive. Do you know when it is? Of course you know, we know 350: the day the People's Party ceases to be in opposition, stop blocking the renewal of constitutional bodies and stop boycotting.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u155	Mr. Uriarte, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u156	Thus, there is nothing more than an institutional crisis problem than an institutional crisis strategy, as long as the representatives of popular sovereignty freely elected by the citizens in the ballot boxes are not evicted. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Uriarte. For the Socialist Group, I have the floor, Mrs Leal Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u158	Thank you, President. Mrs Arrimadas, neither the question you made to the Government nor of course this motion has any other objective than the impulse towards confrontation, which you have automated in a way seems to be irrefutable, and you know it yourself. Yeah, lasabe. [[Applauds]] Everything serves him to confront, be it judges, the Penal Code, pensions or Catalonia, always to confront and never to seek solutions. It fuels the misinformation, the unjustified social alarm, of being responsible, about the alleged grave dangers that have haunted Spanish democracy since President Pedro Sánchez was at the head of a progressive government. You join even in the language to the right who have accompanied you in this same speech. He states that the deterioration of our democratic quality is an undeniable fact, precisely on the very days when the report of The Economist is published, in which it is determined that Spanish democracy is a full and prominent democracy, of the best in the world, another of those apocalyptic predictions of the right to which you have joined. [[applause]] In this hyperconnected world the scope of our words is not neutral and has greater responsibility and echo when done from these forums, with the reflection in the Journal of Sessions. Generating or spreading false news or misinformation about this government I don't want to believe it's part of your political action, is it, Mrs. Arrimadas? He claims that they do not exaggerate when they warn that Pedro Sánchez has begun the implementation of a plan to dismantle - I quote textual - the current model of a social and democratic state of law. A demolition of the constitutional state. But you, Mrs. Arrimadas, do you read what you write? [[Mrs. Arrimadas García makes affirmative gestures]] Because I think if I reread it, I'd see the reach of this barbarity. You call yourselves constitutionalists, but of the real ones, of those who have pedigrees of 78 and propose, through a motion, the reform of article 2 of the Constitution, through a motion! I'm going to stop myself at this one of all your proposals, my time is short. [[Applauds]] In the category of normal and non-ideological proposal; a proposal which, by the way, they presented in the Senate, lost it and remained alone: to eliminate the right to autonomy of nationalities and regions enshrined in our Constitution and to replace it as a nation of free and equals. If they had stopped to reread their proposal, it would surely bring back to their memories more typical of a dictatorial past. [[Applauds]] It is no longer just an aggrieved reform of the Constitution, with what that means, that you present an amendment to the whole of the recognized parents of the Constitution, all of them, by the way, known dangerous independenceists, according to your conspiracy theses. I would recommend that you review the Journals of Sessions of the Constitutional Presentation and adequately reflect in your words the spirit of the Constitution that is reflected in that Presentation. The problem comes when you make a biased and advantageous reading and not a complete reading of our Constitution, because you talk about constitutional blockade, why don't you talk about the constitutional blockade to which the People's Party has subjected the renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary? [[Applauds]] While you are immersed in this drift of identity to find a place in the world, entering to be part of the game of these right-wings who do not accept the legitimate results of the ballot box, meanwhile noise and blocking, do you know where you will find us? We are the heirs of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of the constituent Courts! We are the heirs of the 127 Socialist Members who, with their work and their vote, endorsed this Constitution which we defend for all and for all! [[Strong and prolonged applause by the Socialist Members of the Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs. Leal. Mrs Arrimadas, do you accept any of the amendments tabled by your group?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u160	No, no, The vote will take place on its own terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u161	All right. Thank you very much. That's how it's gonna be done. We vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote, I would like to convey the solidarity of the Congress of Deputies and of the whole of the Spanish people to whom we represent with those affected by the earthquake which is devastating a large part of Turkey and Syria and our sorrow for the thousands of mortal victims that this terrible tragedy is causing. In the face of the shock, it is urgent that the international community mobilize massively, as hundreds of Spaniards and Spaniards have already done, who are fighting on the ground against the terrible consequences of this extraordinary catastrophe. They are members of the Emergency Military Unit, are contingents of firefighters or even citizens who were in the area. All of them, with their generosity, commitment and solidarity, represent the best of our country. From the Congress of Deputies we wish to express our sincere gratitude and appreciation. Thank you so much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u163	We begin, ladies and gentlemen, with the votes. It takes into consideration proposals for the law of autonomous communities and cities. Proposal for a law of the Parliament of the Canary Islands redrafting Article 44(1)(a) of Law 19/1994 of 6 July, amending the Economic and Fiscal System of the Canary Islands on triangular or trading operations of entities registered in the Special Area of the Canary Islands since its creation. [[ZEC]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 334 votes in favour, 285 against, 32 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u164	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u165	Proposition of the law of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, amending Law 32/2014 of 3 December of National Parks, on the precise measures to adapt the situation of existing national parks to the legal effects linked to the declaration. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 342 votes in favour, 148 against, 190 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-07-CD230207.u166	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. Thank you all very much. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight and ten minutes of the night.
