ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u1	Very good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. In accordance with Rule 68.1 of the Rules of Procedure and as agreed by the Board of Spokesmen, this Presidency shall submit to the plenary of the House the amendment of the agenda to exclude item 24, corresponding to the urgent inquiry of the Parliamentary Group Citizens. Does the House remember that? [[Consent]] Thank you very much. The amendment to the agenda was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u2	We begin with the debate to take into consideration the proposed law of the Parliamentary Group VOX, Organic, amending the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June, of the General Electoral Regime, to include as ineligible the fugitives of justice. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Ortega Smith-Molina has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. This proposed law submitted by the Parliamentary VOX Group for the reform of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime aims, as stated in its statement, to establish a more ineligible condition for those who are fleeing justice. A general principle of our constitutional system, of our rule of law, and I dare say of the Western legal tradition, is that the defence of any right cannot be maintained without the corresponding obligation. There are people who get their mouths filled every day in this House, in the streets and in the media talking about their rights, but we never hear them talk about their obligations. There are some who demand obligations from the rest and they are unable to meet only one of those obligations. And this is where we frame, in article 23 of the Spanish Constitution, two rights inherent in constitutionalism itself, democracy itself: the right to active suffrage and the right to passive suffrage. That is, when Article 23.1 tells us that all Spaniards can participate in the public question directly or through our representatives in that active vote that allows us to go to vote in the different electoral processes, such as the one we will soon have, at the end of May; but also that right of Article 23.2 to be eligible and, therefore, to be able to present us in a candidature for public office on behalf of the Spaniards. That, then, is passive suffrage. However, these rights are irreparably linked to a number of obligations and, among other things, the one set out in article 118 of our Constitution, which makes it clear that all Spaniards have an obligation not only to comply with the law, but also to comply with the rulings issued by the courts of justice, which comes to be the judiciary. [[Applauds]] That jurisdictional power that we are all subject to, starting with those from this House who have the responsibility to represent the Spaniards, to appear before the courts and to account for the requirements they seek, because in the end, in a rule of law we are all subject to the law, we are all subject to the courts, because that is the only guarantee that arbitrariness and totalitarianism will not end, like cancer, by flooding all the institutions, by polluting all the powers of the State. But those public offices are required to be exemplary, which comes to be as much as the first to comply with the law and the first to respond to the calls of the judiciary. Of course, in times of exemplarity shines for their absence, because those who give coups d'état are abrogated by the crime of sedition; in relation to those who misappropriate public funds, it comes to the paradox that those who steal public money for themselves are less sorry than those who use such public funds no less than to give coups d'état, destroy coexistence and trample the Constitution. [[Applauds]] We intend with this bill to complete the electoral legislation, which now tells us in its article 2 that all Spaniards can vote and then in article 6 reminds us that, instead, there are some Spaniards who cannot appear in public office. This right, which is violated under the heading of the ineligibility of public office, now, with the legislation in hand, refers first of all to anyone who by virtue of his or her status cannot do so; see, for example, being part of the royal family, being a public prosecutor, being a member of the Constitutional Court or an Ombudsman. And it seems logical and normal that because of this position they cannot be part of an electoral candidacy. But at the same time our electoral law, with very good judgment, deprives that right of being a public office and therefore of being able to be part of a candidacy, to those who, either have been convicted of having been sentenced to imprisonment, or have been sentenced and even if the penalty has not yet been firm, because they have had recourse, have been convicted of crimes of high gravity; see crimes of terrorism, crimes of rebellion, crimes against State institutions or against public administrations. In that case, the condition of a convicted person, even if not firm, implies the loss of the right to be a party to a candidacy. Well, what this bill seeks is something so simple and logical to understand that we dare to say, once again, that you have the courage to ask the Spaniards, something so easy to understand. Can it be understood that with the current legislation in hand people who have been called to appear before the courts because they are involved in serious crimes do not appear before the courts, are in a situation of fugitives and the absurdity of having the right to run for office is given? Is it understandable that those who are not able to fulfil the mandate of article 118 of our Constitution, to respect the rule of law, to appear before the courts, can instead stand for election in a candidacy, enjoy the benefits of subsidy and support with public funds and, even more serious, become public office, which is often truly complicated to get them to respond to justice by becoming outcasts? This is the reality of the Spanish electoral legislation, and it is before which VOX proposes that there be a reform of article 6.2 of the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime, to add also as a cause of ineligibility the fact that a person is in a situation of rebellion, that is, in a situation of flight from justice, therefore not to appear before the organs of justice. [[Applauds]] We, before those who constantly raise the voice by scrimmaging rights and talking about democracy, those who say that their candidates have the right, in a democratic state, to stand for election because, if not, a basic right of any democracy is being violated, we answer them with their own words: there is nothing less democratic than trying to compete on equal terms with the rest of the possible candidates when you are fleeing justice, when you are disregarding the law to which you have an obligation to submit, when you are disregarding the constitutional order. Therefore, for the Parliamentary Group of VOX - and we dare to say humbly, but with conviction, that for the vast majority of Spaniards - there can be no margins, there can be no fissures by which those who run away from justice and, especially, those who do so for reasons of high gravity: crimes of rebellion, crimes of sedition, crimes of embezzlement, crimes of terrorism. All those who attack the institutions, who attack the public administrations, cannot have loopholes of legality. [[Applauds]] Therefore, this reform of the law that we propose would respond to this logic of the Spanish society's demand. Those who are not deserving of public office cannot therefore be part of the candidatures. The only electoral poster that could be admitted into a rule of law with persons who are fugitives from justice is that those who are fugitives from justice should appear before it, surrender their responsibilities to it and, if, after a fair trial and with all guarantees, they are convicted, be disqualified from being part of the candidatures, to be part of the institutions as a public office. [[Take a picture of Mr Puigdemont i Casamajó Behind some bars and show to the bench of the left, the center and the right of the Chamber.-Applause]] This is common sense, this is democracy, this is the rule of law. The rest, arbitrariness, totalitarianism and crime. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u4	Thank you very much, Mr Ortega. Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The rights recognized by the Constitution are not absolute, as the Constitutional Court has repeatedly insisted. This does not mean that their limits can also be absolute, since they can only exist when the Magna Charter itself imposes restrictions or when the legislator imposes them by being justified in the face of the need to preserve other legally protected rights or assets. Such limitations shall never obstruct beyond reasonableness the right in question, in this case, as set out in Article 23.1 of the Spanish Constitution relating to passive suffrage. Article 108.8 of LOREG provides that, at the time of taking office and in order to acquire the full status of their office, elected candidates must swear or promise to comply with the Constitution, as well as fulfil the other requirements laid down in the respective laws or regulations. That is, only if the candidate in question appears before the Electoral Board for these purposes can he or she be elected, so that only by stepping on Spanish soil and leaving his or her status as a fugitive from justice can he or she do so, in person before the judicial body that requires his or her presence in the terms of the legal proposal that calls us today. On the other hand, I do not share the similarity in the proposed law between an arrest warrant and an entire court sentence, since in one case there has been a process with all the guarantees and in the other there is hardly the beginning of a criminal investigation. However, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the spirit that moves the authors of this initiative, explained by Mr Ortega Smith, to tackle the scandal that occurs when candidates who are deprived of the action of the justice are engrossing electoral lists and participating in the campaign from legal paradises located on European soil. But it must be stressed that this always leads to the legal provisions - and I have just mentioned this - without the need for amendments that can go against constitutional jurisprudence in terms of proportionality and respect for the essential core of the right to participate in public affairs. Finally, if an initiative were to be submitted to this House so that the Government of the European Union would be interested in the urgent modification of the Community legal framework in order to prevent it from continuing to tolerate these shameful paradises on the continent where Spanish judges cannot act, it would answer without doubt. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u7	Thank you, President. Last week, in your motion, you gentlemen of VOX said that the independenceists were looking for our goal in a very sick way. Considering that seven days ago you brought a motion to illegalize independenceist parties, that today you bring a law to further persecute the exiles and independentist prisoners and that then, later on, we have a non-law proposal to prosecute independenceist referendums, let's say that at least you too are sick; at least, if not more, because the unity of Spain you already have and yet constantly invoke it. Entering the rag, it is timely the law that brings us today, one day after the Supreme resolves that Catalan prisoners will continue their disqualification despite the repeal of the sedition. You, when you want to give importance, say: There is only VOX left. Quiet, not only remains VOX; there are also the judges, who often seem like VOX; there is also the Central Electoral Board, which has been performing many of the things called for by this law, with the anomaly that supposes an administrative body to intercede against democratically elected positions, such as our colleague Pau Subirà or even a president of the Generalitat such as Mr Quim Torra. I'm going to make three considerations about what they're proposing. The first, they are not fugitives; they are not fugitives. They have always presented themselves to judges in Germany, Belgium, the United Kingdom, Italy and Switzerland, who have returned both doors to the Spanish judiciary. [[rumors.-Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina points to the ground with his index finger]] Profugus are not, they are exiled from an unjust justice system. Secondly, you should look to European justice precisely because it points to the abuses that the Spanish judiciary is committing and that you would like to take even further. The last European judgment in the Lluís Puig case is a defeat of Llarena, which achieved the opposite effect to the desired one. The Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, holds that a court may refuse a Euroorder not for reasons of competence, but of fundamental rights, and that precisely in the Spanish State there is evidence of a violation of fundamental rights to an objectively identifiable group - as it is written in the judgment - as we are independent militants. They boast of full democracy and yet are closer to the criminal law of the enemy. Third and last question: its law is addressed to elected representatives against whom, without being VOX in power, numerous repressive abuses have already been committed: prison, fines, disqualifications, espionage and even more that remains to be seen. But no one will be able to disqualify the 2,286,217 people we voted for on October 1. To you, by the way, the last elections voted some 217,000 people, 10% of the people we went to vote on 1 October. With repression they can slow down, they can make independence more painful, but they cannot make this longing and its deep roots disappear. And the more you speak, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, the more supporters we have of the independence of the Catalan countries. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u9	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing the consideration, as has already been said, of an initiative of the VOX Parliamentary Group to amend the LOREG to increase the list of ineligible persons in electoral processes, on the one hand, by extending that of convicted persons, and, on the other, by introducing ex novo a new assumption, that of those persons claimed by the Spanish criminal justice system to clarify their criminal responsibility in cases of offences against the Constitution or of sedition. I would now like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the Basque Parliamentary Group will not give its support to taking this initiative into consideration for the reasons which I shall now briefly set out. With regard to the substance of the initiative, we do not consider that the current payroll of ineligible persons should be extended to those convicted of any offence against the Constitution of the contents of Title XXI, when the established disqualifications or suspension of employment or public office are combined. It would be as much as going from twenty-five criminal types to seventy-one, since in addition to those in force of rebellion and against the institutions of the State, crimes against the Crown, crimes relating to the usurpation of powers, crimes relating to the exercise of fundamental rights and public freedoms, crimes committed by officials against institutional guarantees and abuses against Spain should be incorporated. All this in the explanatory statement of the initiative is justified by the thin argument in a final paragraph which points out that the widening of the causes of ineligibility is articulated as a means of safeguarding the freedom and equality of the Spaniards, of the unity of the nation and of respect for the constitutional order and the rule of law. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that nothing is argued except for a ritual lattice, it being issued that already many of the criminal types covered under the heading of crimes against the Constitution contain, in our opinion and by the majority of the House, genuine limitations on the fundamental right of freedom of expression and that, therefore, they should be repealed or amended. In case there are few reasons why we should not give our support to the initiative, I would add that a crime that is fortunately already non-existent, such as sedition, is also incorporated. On the other hand, the initiative, as you already know, introduces ex novo the case of ineligibility in relation to those persons claimed by the Spanish criminal justice to determine their responsibility for offences against the Constitution or sedition. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to what has already been said about the crimes against the Constitution and the already non-existent crime against sedition, a spokesman has also pointed out that while there is no court ruling, we do not consider it appropriate to extend these cases of ineligibility because, in their case, any person in a criminal trial can be tried and convicted in absentia or acquitted. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we are drawn to the attention that the authors of the initiative tell us that the obligation to appear before the courts is not satisfied when the defendant does so before foreign judicial bodies other than the country of residence, in the use of procedures and precedents, legal mechanisms of assistance and cooperation between judicial bodies of different countries. Nor is it pointed out that this should not even apply in the context of the Union and of the 2002 Framework Decision, which spells out, precisely, the principle of mutual recognition and mutual trust between the criminal justice systems of the different Member States, and which legitimises the claim by the plaintiff for justice of the claimant State to question the execution of the Euroorder under this same framework decision and to refer them to the courts of the Member State of residence called upon to execute the Euroorder of surrender. The same applies to those who, as MEPs, enjoy the guarantee of parliamentary immunity, which has been provisionally extended, pending a final ruling as to whether there is a legitimate case for its lifting. Ladies and gentlemen, we already know that VOX rejects the European Union, but our parliamentary group does not; as it is also obvious that we consider in different ways the so-called process in Catalonia, that Catalonia is a nation and that the democratic right of Catalonian citizens to decide their future must consist. I'll finish it, President. He also pointed out other reasons other than the basic ones for which we will not support the process of the initiative either. We are referring to the time when the reforms that are being proposed are being proposed, as one of the fundamental principles of the democratic system is being violated, namely that the electoral rules do not change into an electoral year, a year in which we find ourselves not only with a process, but with three different electoral processes. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Espejo-Saavedra Conesa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u11	Thank you, President. According to some deputies from Spain, Spain is an oppressive, violent and anti-democratic State that pursues citizens and imprisons them for their political ideas. These deputies, oppressed by them, have salaries of 5000 or 6000 euros paid by all the Spaniards; they belong to legal parties; they are partners of the Government of the nation and direct themselves the Government of one of the most important communities in Spain, with a budget of more than 40 billion; they have the command of a police force; they administer their own taxes, health, education and a very large number of competences. If it were not because it was dramatic, it would be funny; that is, hugely powerful parties, which receive huge amounts of public money, which govern and administer the lives of millions of citizens thanks to the Spanish Constitution, say that they are persecuted by the state that guarantees them everything I have mentioned. Yeah, that's what's going on. That is happening and has been normalized, and that is one of the great evils of Spanish politics. The worst is that the PSOE - which today, unfortunately, rules in Spain - buys them, effusively, that account because, when justice condemns them for serious crimes provided for by law, the PSOE goes and pardons them. And, in case there is little, it eliminates from the Criminal Code the offences for which they were convicted when they go beyond the constitutional framework. Now, at least, it has become clear to all Spaniards what is worth the word of the PSOE and President Pedro Sánchez. Today it is news, moreover - it has been mentioned - that the justice certifies that doing so the PSOE has left absolutely unprotected that oppressive state, making that everything that happened in Catalonia in 2017, and that many Catalans we live in our own flesh, is absolutely decriminalized leaving free those, supposedly, oppressed so that, as they claim and announce, they will do it again. There are parties, such as the proponent of this law, which demands the illegalization of the independence parties, which would undoubtedly be to put all this false tale of oppression on their tray. We have a non- militant Constitution and any person or organization can defend its modification, provided it is within the very channels of the Constitution, even to modify its essence. The party proposing this law also defends the amendment of essential parts of the Constitution and has every right to do so. What is really urgently needed to prevent, democratically, these parties representing a minority of citizens throughout Spain, from determining the fates of the vast majority, is a reform of the electoral law. Yes, those parties that claim to be victims of an oppressive state and want to break the Constitution have many more deputies in this Congress than other political formations that have received double or triple votes in the elections. But, hey, they feel oppressed. We do advocate a reform of the electoral law so that there is a national minimum for representation. But we know that, unfortunately, it will not happen because both PP and PSOE do not want it to happen and have never done anything to prevent it. Rather, on the contrary, over the past forty years they have been supporting alternatively in these parties to govern. In this last legislature, everything has to be said, all the limits have been crossed. But, beyond this reform, the one that brings VOX today, which is identical to the one already presented at the time Citizens, what comes, again, to propose is an improvement to this nonsense that does not understand any citizen: today, in the oppressive Spanish State, a person who has escaped from justice - yes, who has fled justice; yes, who has fled justice; who has fled, because if I appear in Zimbabwe, when I claim the Criminal Court of Móstoles, I am a fugitive from justice - may be, and in fact there are several who are, public representative and collect money from the taxes of all citizens. If it wasn't dramatic, I insist, it would be a joke. Of course, a person who has not yet been tried must be, until proven otherwise, considered innocent in the light of the law and cannot be denied the rights that every citizen has constitutionally recognized, including, of course, the right to stand for election. But one thing is that and another very different is when an accused person also disregards the obligations of any citizen to appear before the courts to defend himself and to answer for his actions. Today, if a company or citizen is not aware of their taxes or other obligations - and these are also things that defend laws that have been passed by these same deputies in the Parliament of Catalonia and here - he cannot ask for subsidies, benefits or submit to public tenders; but a fugitive from justice, someone who does not comply with the obligation required by the procedural law, can submit to the deputy. This doesn't make any sense. This doesn't make any sense. One can rely on his rights to be eligible as a public representative, even though he is accused of some crime, even while in prison, as has also happened; but the cowardice of not appearing cannot imply any privilege. Today, there are a few cowardly politicians in the European Parliament who refuse to assume the consequences of their actions, but who in the Government of Catalonia did not hesitate to force citizens to comply with their orders with their decrees under sanctions. We have already endured a lot of shame as a country for these situations and any decent party can only support something like this. And if you don't support him, as I think he's going to do, unfortunately and predictably, again, the PSOE, he's going to be portrayed again. I hope that the other parties will not recant with him, at least those who call themselves constitutionalists. Fortunately, if this happens, at least it will serve as something: to certify, once again, that this Government does not deserve to be at the forefront of this country any longer. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Boadella Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u13	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The truth - let me warn you on one point to the Members of the VOX Group - is that there are fifty-two of you. We at PeCAT are four. I say this because about fifty-two of us already knew that they do not submit amendments to the budgets, that in many laws you do not submit amendments or do parliamentary work, but at least when you present this proposal you could have seen that the sedition crime is already abrogated. [[Mr Ortega Smith-Molina shows the presentation document indicating the date of registration]] I say this because I present a proposal for a law which refers to that, in the case of the sedition offence, one cannot submit to new electoral lists, at least, could have had the previous job of assessing that the repeal of the sedition offence was published on 23 December last year. I'm sure this would prove that, apart from doing the recurring show on these issues, you look at each other and work on some law. But if we get to the bottom of the matter. [[Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina re-shows the presentation document indicating the date of registration: November]] Yes, yes, Mr. Ortega Smith, you can show me the registration date. But you can make an amendment in voice here and correct this issue here. Don't worry because, if I get in the bottom, there's more. The other question, going into the background, is that you propose that those convicted of crimes against the public administration, against sedition, again, and against terrorism, but, instead, only to arrest warrants against offences against the Constitution or sedition. In other words, there is a double standard of who can or cannot be brought under the arrest warrant. If you appeal to exemplary public office, you should have also placed the offences against the public administration in this proposal. With such exemplary public office, surely those who are persecuted for corruption should not appear either. But, ultimately, we do not share, under any circumstances, what you propose, because people have the right to a judicial process and a fair judicial process. This is what is not contemplated in your non-law proposal. It is serious that people are forbidden to stand for election because they do not have a firm sentence. [[Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina shows another page of the presentation document: You haven't read it]] You can teach me as many times as you want the role I am going to vote for you as well, because the proposal you are making is neither working nor legally sound. For that reason, apart from voting against it, we reiterate to you that they also comply with the legal rigour of their turn when they say that they do not appear before the courts. The truth is that it appears, because, if not, these people would be arrested for international police cooperation. Or isn't it? What is happening is that you should, rather than be ashamed of these situations, be ashamed of the European arrest warrants which have been sent and which have been a terrible legal failure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u14	Thank you, Mr. Boadella. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Nogueras and Mrs Camero have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u15	Thank you, President. I've been turning this initiative around for many days thinking about the profile that fits your description of this fugitive from justice and assured you - days ago I think it - that the only person who came to my head is your king, your king 1, your king Bourbon, your runaway king. [[Thief]] [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u16	Quiet, please. Mrs Nogueras, I ask you to do so with due respect when you refer to any State institution and any body recognized in our Constitution. Therefore, I ask you to withdraw that expression.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u17	I respect everything he hasn't had for us. [[Protests]] I'm on it. I personally am not interested, at all, in your persecutory obsessions or the stories that tell us here every day or the shows that delight us every week or the nonsense that you and other parties have come to say here today, but I have a lot to do with the noses that systematically violate fundamental rights here, and for free. Today, for example, this initiative collects pearls like - and I read literally - 'it is necessary to wonder if a person should be deprived of his fundamental right...' blablablab. Spain is the wonderful country in which you cannot debate according to which issues, which you give allergy, such as amnesty or self-determination or the independence of Catalonia, even, depending on where you make this debate, you can end up in prison. On the other hand, one here can debate and vote on removing or putting fundamental rights, even removing or putting democratically elected deputies in the Catalan ballot box. We're not interested in your little Spanish right-wing nonsense, we're also interested in the competitiveness of our nation, Catalonia. [[pronounce words in Catalan]] And I am telling you this because, while you here, in the Spanish courts, are dealing with fundamental rights, we are not talking about the armed robbery that the citizens of Catalonia suffer every year, not only because the money does not come from the general budgets of the Spanish State, but because here, in Madrid, there are more than 20 billion euros left that are from the citizens of Catalonia, not only from those who steal the independence of Catalonia, but from all the citizens who work and live in Catalonia. Catalonia, as you will all know - and, if not, I tell you - is a very powerful country. It is a very powerful country that is very strong every day, thanks to the efforts made by the citizens of Catalonia, all the companies, the SMEs and the capacity that Catalonia has to overcome despite the disastrous political management that you make from here, from the Cortes Generales, from the Spanish State Government, from Madrid, six hundred kilometers from Catalonia. And to this disastrous political management, we add, as I said, the fiscal deficit that we suffer, those billions that take out of the pocket all the citizens of Catalonia, who stay in Madrid, and who do - this is the worrying thing and what you should solve - that the economy is losing weight on all the welfare indicators; that is, the ones that we pay the most we receive the least. I will give you some information that you may not know about, and that is that every year the revenue that the citizens of Catalonia contribute to the Spanish State is EUR 64 billion. And you know how many people come back? Only 40,000. I'm done with two questions. Where do these €20 billion of Catalonian citizens go? To whom do these 20 billion citizens of Catalonia benefit, because I assure you that there is not a penny in Catalonia? And the second question is [[ends your intervention in Catalan]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs. Nogueras. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u19	First of all, as we always say, thank you so much for inviting us again to this recurring group therapy. It's always a pleasure. [[Laughter]] 1 Word withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Mr. Ortega Smith, have you written this? The whole initiative? [[Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina makes affirmative signs]] [[Mr. Ortega Smith-Molina makes affirmative signs]] Okay. The aim is, then, to ensure that those who claim to be public representatives have exemplary conduct in accordance with the law. My predecessor, the previous spokesperson, commented on this. The truth is, she's egged and she's not the first one I tell her. If it is a question of persecuting or trying to ensure that those who have acted badly, especially during the last 40 years, do not have public representation and, above all, if we talk about the greatest fugitive in this country, it is on the egg. I'm not gonna tell you, you know who he is, he's raising his grandson in Emirates. Mr Espejo was talking about Zimbabwe, but he's about to talk about Botswana, on time. Then I remembered, putting myself more seriously - then I'm going to show you something that you're going to like more than this, you'll see - of the fascist killer of Guillen Agullo, of Pedro Cuevas, who walks through the streets of Valencia. In fact, it ran for elections in 2007. I remembered that and thought, in my innocence supine towards you - no, it's not true -: perhaps they don't want fascist killers to continue running for election. Then I got serious and I looked into it and I remembered it a little bit. What I am going to teach you - you know - is a judgment of the Supreme Court of Gibraltar against his comrade the patriot Augustine Rosety for defaming the chief minister of Gibraltar and for not respecting the sovereignty of Gibraltar, a firm judgment of the Supreme Court of Gibraltar. [[shows a document]] [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] And this-- I'm gonna do like you--.. [[shows the document to the bench of the left, center and right of the Chamber.- Rumors.-Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u21	... - I am serious - it is an arrest warrant against you, Mr. Javier Ortega Smith, indeed, it is also against Mr. Santiago Abascal, for the frikada they made in Gibraltar from the flag on the spike and for not respecting the sovereignty of Gibraltar. [[Applauds]] So, the question is when you'll leave your record. When? These are exemplary conducts in accordance with the law. Can you go to London, for example? Can you pass through London on a quick trip? The answer is no. Why? Because he's a fugitive from justice. They're looking for him in Gibraltar for an important frikada, but it broke the law. You know what the worst part of this is? It is a serious matter for you, and you have a paradigmatic example behind you. That every time we take them less seriously. I just recently took them very seriously, and I keep taking them because they have an infantry... I know them perfectly well, and they have a terrible infantry. [[Laughter]] They are still very much in the working class, and they have very important media and power machinery, but it is true that we take it less and less seriously, and as long as they continue to present these things, even more so. Finally, I would like to make a comment on what has been said, and I think it is also welcome to say so. We, the Republican Left, do not want to change neither the PSOE nor the judicial power of this country. We can't change them. Would we like to change them? I don't know, but we can't. Here we are thirteen and in Parliament we are thirty-three, and we cannot change the opinion and power that Marchena has; we can make it difficult for her, and we aspire to that. Who does not like - and we can understand perfectly that he does not like - but who shares a minimum of our cause, who helps us, who helps us, because if we do what we do with those we are, then imagine, right? In fact, here is a parliamentary group that governs a very important institution in Catalonia with the PSOE, the Barcelona Parliament, and you don't need to say who. Imagine if that parliamentary group put on the table to break that pact in the Barcelona Parliament in exchange for doing more things. Has it happened? No, it hasn't, if you don't know, ask yourself why. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. Mr Mena Arca has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u23	Thank you, President. I don't know if I can start now or wait for Mr. Ortega Smith to finish his show, which he's used to. [[Applauds]] I, ladies and gentlemen, confess to you that when I started reading this bill I thought I was reading a script from The White Lotus, a series that tells the whims and outbursts of several rich people in a luxury resort, but, no, it's you bringing back an initiative without feet or head. You can see that you are as alienated from reality as the protagonists of this series that I mention to you. You could talk about a thousand things that people are interested in, for example, how we improve the minimum wage, as we have done today; how we improve the minimum living income; how we guarantee measures to change the production model of Spain to shield the working conditions of workers; how we encourage public education throughout the country, which is the one that equals us all, or how we respond to the more than 250 000 Madridns, who went back to the streets of Madrid on Sunday to remind Mrs Ayuso that with public health it is not played because it is not the business of their friends. But, no, you continue with your obsessions: to limit, to cut, to illegalize, to imprison, to ban. It is the same theory of the usual funnel: the broad part for yours and the narrow part for others; facilities for those who evade taxes, difficulties for the workers; sharing extraordinary dividends for the bosses, sharing debts for the workers; scholarships for the rich, cuts for the poor. You are not only left with the independenceists, as confirmed in this PL, you are also left with any democrat; moreover, we are left with the LGBT people, the women, the immigrants, the communists and the socialists, those who speak with Catalan accent, and also the Madridans who ask for better public health. I say this because in this PL you are demanding a modification of the LOREG to limit the right of passive suffrage in Spain, and it is that you are not even, ladies and gentlemen, able to innovate. This same proposal was already made by Mr Casado - the gentleman who was expelled from the People's Party for demanding transparency from the almighty Ayuso - in January 2020, and at that time numerous experts in constitutional law have already emerged to argue why a proposal like this is unconstitutional; moreover, before Mr Casado, also proposed it by Mr Rivera of Citizens, and look at how the two have ended. So, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, apply that which when the beards of your neighbors see cut, put theirs to soak. Article 6.2 of LOREG already states that those sentenced by a final sentence to deprivation of liberty for the duration of the sentence are ineligible, and those sentenced for the offence of rebellion, terrorism against the public administration or State institutions when the sentence provides for disqualification by the right to vote or to hold a public office, even if the sentence is not final. You should also know that there are already several rulings of the Constitutional Court which point out that cases of ineligibility must be guaranteed, because, if not, ladies and gentlemen, we would be limiting a fundamental right to persons who do not yet know whether they are guilty or not because they could eventually be acquitted. In that sense, you always bring out the right to the presumption of innocence when it comes to protecting your corrupt friends, but you hide the right to the presumption of innocence when it comes to talking about people you don't like. Spanish justice itself, ladies and gentlemen, has told you that this is a political desire of the far right that has no place in the constitutional system because, as you know, in 2019, Mr Puigdemont, Mr Toni Comíny Clara Ponsatí were excluded by the Central Electoral Board in order to be able to run as candidates for the European elections. A few months later, on the proposal of Citizens and also of the People's Party, it was the Prosecutor's Office itself that supported the appeal made by these three people and thus allowed them to submit their own candidature. It is not necessary, Mr Ortega Smith, to tell you that in Comú Podemos we are in the ideological antipodes of Mr Puigdemont and his policies, but we have also said as active and passive that our political space has worked, is working and will continue to work to ensure that this is a strong democracy, because in reality this proposal of law is against dialogue, and you care little about what happens to the fugitives of justice, as you say, since there are those who are going to hunt elephants, and you are great idolaters and admirers of those people. Therefore, I recommend that you stop trying to implement the law, stop looking for legislative changes to pursue your political opponents and assume, assume once and for all, that in Spain the dialogue has come to stay, not only because we have decided it by the two forces that we are jointly governing, also by the forces that give majority to the governability of this country, but above all because it has been decided by a majority more than absolute of the Spaniards in this country. Accept, ladies and gentlemen, that your political postulates have been defeated in the ballot box, that your hatred, intolerance and intransigence have no place in a diverse Spain, which I have learned in recent years that political problems are resolved by talking and not by corrupting the laws for your partisan interest, which is what you are trying to do here this afternoon. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Mena. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mrs Uriarte Bengoechea has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, democracy means freedom, pluralism and the rule of law, and those who forget some of these three components in their conception of democracy will talk about something else, not democracy. Some of you, the nationalist groups, have been through the last few hours again. When they came out to question yesterday's decision of the Supreme Court, they were once again forgotten the rule of law. [[Applauds]] It is the problem that many nationalist leaders and many leaders of the extreme left have, that they forget the rule of law. Some, in addition to that, have been making jokes about democracy lately, like Mr Rufián a few minutes ago right here. But worse than that, there are some nationalist leaders who have committed and commit crimes against democracy, as did those who assaulted institutions in the United States or those who assaulted institutions in Brazil. You, the nationalists and the extreme left of Spain, do not like these comparisons, but they are the relevant ones, because also there, as here, you have attacked the institutions and have done so, as you have done, in the name of democracy; also the assailants in Brazil or in the United States say that they do so for the people, in the name of the people, of democracy. It is the same manipulation of democracy that you, the nationalist groups of this House and those of the far left, do, among other things, to justify the illegal referendum of 2017, the laws of disconnection and the unilateral proclamation of independence, all of them actions against the rule of law and, therefore, against democracy. That you have found remarkable popular support in these actions and that, in addition, you have agreed on legal changes with the Socialist Party and the United We can, like the elimination of sedition and the reduction of embezzlement, do not mean that these actions are democratic. Indeed, we need to strengthen the rule of law in the face of such undemocratic actions. Yesterday, it was recalled again by an order of the Supreme Court, which said that the repeal of the sedition offence has deprived the rule of law of protection. Many of you, of the Socialist Party, were very outraged by our spokesman, Cuca Gamarra, when he told them precisely that following the coup to democracy in Brazil. Our spokesman, Cuca Gamarra, warned them that their pacts with the nationalist parties protected the rule of law. What are you going to do now? Are you going to be angry with the Supreme? Will Pedro Sánchez come here tomorrow to fight against the Supreme, because the Supreme has just told him what we have already told him, that you have left the rule of law unprotected from possible new blows to democracy that can lead radical nationalist parties? [[applause]] The entire Supreme's order must be read, but I will remind you of an extract - abro quotes -: 'Following the reform, between the crime of rebellion and the crime of public disorder there is an intermediate space that can accommodate in the future serious crimes against the constitutional system, in which the non-compliance with laws and the failure to comply with judicial decisions, if they were not accompanied by pre-ordered violence for those purposes or not involving acts of violence or intimidation, would go unpunished.' The path of impunity is the path that you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, have opened up with your pacts, and that is why all actions or measures that seek to strengthen the rule of law are positive, such as this proposed law of the VOX Group to reform the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime and add new causes within article 6 so as not to be able to be elected in our electoral system. And it is that what cannot continue to happen is this double mockery of democracy that continues to occur in Spain, double mockery of politicians fleeing Spain with orders to arrest Spanish courts. Not only are they not brought before these courts, but they also claim to be candidates for elections. The fact that Puigdemont and others have taken advantage of some of the gaps in European coordination is no less serious than what is happening; certainly, a profit that will be less possible from the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on 31 January, because it is probably not necessary - let us hope - to implement this legal reform. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the most advanced democracies in the world, as The Economist's index has once again said. The Government has been pleased about this and so have we. Spain is among the twenty-four most advanced democracies in the world, and we need to ensure that this remains so, but for that we need to protect the rule of law. That is true, when it comes to reforming the rules of play, and that is the case, we believe that we must have the broadest possible consensus. That is why we ask the Socialist Party to join this reform as well. When reform is necessary, positive and strengthens the rule of law, we will be in that reform, and I hope that many more groups will join it. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u26	Thank you very much, Mrs. Uriarte. For the Socialist Group, Mr Taibo Monelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u27	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a great surprise that VOX presented this proposal for a law that seeks to prevent people in search and capture from being able to run for election, and the surprise is capital precisely when it is Mr Ortega Smith himself - this is his case, isn't it?, you are in search and capture by the judicial authority - the one who presents it. I understand that the VOX proposing group will ask Mr Ortega Smith not to attend the next elections. [[Applauds]] Or do you just see the straw in the other's eye and not see the beam in your own? Come on, I say. A fugitive asking that other fugitives not be able to run for election! VOX proposes to restrict a fundamental right, as you recognize in your bill on several occasions, no more or less than the right to participate in elections. It proposes to prohibit the election of persons who have not been tried or convicted, eliminating a pillar of our rule of law such as the presumption of innocence, in its purest inquisitorial style. Beware of what you wish, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, because even if there is no sentence, you are already calling for the elimination of a fundamental right, what will you end up doing with those who have been convicted, such as the one with whom you do not pay for the works of your house? Do we legalize it, too? Are you going to make me illegal because I'm red? Are you going to illegalize all the regionalist and nationalist parties because you do not agree with the autonomy, those autonomys in which you present yourselves and in which as soon as you can occupy the most expensive vice-presidencies lacking competence? Is this what your alpha male orders you? [[Applauds]] Frankly, I do not believe that a fundamental right, such as the right to run for election, can be restricted simply because there is a sign of a crime. In a state of law and a full democracy, such as the Spanish one, the presumption of innocence must be above and be the cornerstone of that system. Ineligibility affects a fundamental right, which is essential for representative democracies, such as political participation, contained in our Spanish Constitution in article 23. Its legislative proposal has two parts: firstly, they want to expand the catalogue of criminal types to include offences against the Constitution and the recently repealed sedition offence; it seems that early Spain has not even bothered to update its proposal to the criminal types we have in our Penal Code. Secondly, it seeks to add a new paragraph to prohibit elections for people fleeing justice, such as Mr Ortega Smith, who have not been tried or convicted. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is it true that your plan to govern this country goes hand in hand with this ultra-right, that all you intend to do is to win over and face each other, with that supremeist hatred that they distill in each and every one of your statements? [[Applauds]] The amendment of such an important rule, as is the case with LOREG, must not be carried out at the stroke of impulses; moreover, for this we have the Sub-Commission for the Reform of LOREG, whose work has already borne fruit, as is the case with the elimination of the requested vote, which allows us to vote for our fellow citizens who are abroad. But, look, the difference is that we Socialists extend rights and you restrict and eliminate them, as with health, to which the governments of the People's Party - we know well in Galicia, with Mr Feijóo - have led to health strangulation, while we have always been there to protect and strengthen it. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Spain you wish may be one, but it is neither great nor free. She is very small, very small, and has nothing to do with Spain that we have today. And, of course, it is not free, as you intend to illegalize and eliminate all those who do not think like you. Therefore, let him look at it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, stop being captivated by this extreme right, because I hope that the Spaniards will continue to turn their backs on them, and leave as soon as possible those friendships, which are more dangerous than a piranha in a bidet. Mr Feijóo has this big Spain, as I think all the Spaniards will have noticed, and surely, as the song says, that's why they're on an equal footing with you. It's over, ladies and gentlemen. We must all make it clear that the existence of an arrest warrant, whether national, European or international, issued by a Spanish judicial authority, in no case prejudges the existence of criminal responsibility. The presumption of innocence prevails at all times. And, understand, ladies and gentlemen of VOX and the People's Party, the Inquisition ended five hundred years ago and, of course, this progressive government and each and every one of the Socialist Members who are sitting here are not going to allow this setback in our rule of law, so of course our group will vote against this proposal. [[applause]] Thank you very much, [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u28	Thank you very much, Mr Taibo. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) together with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) on the granting of Spanish nationality to Sahrawis born under Spanish sovereignty. [[File number 122/00215]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u29	We continue with the agenda item on the consideration of the proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, on the granting of Spanish nationality to Saharans born under Spanish sovereignty. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u30	Master Carlos Cano said that there is a people who are able to thread a root in the middle of the sand and that beautiful palm trees come out; that this people always speaks of dreams, stars and hope, and that they are the Saharans, a charming people. The Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos presents this bill because it is the duty of this House to do justice to the historical aggravation committed against the Saharan people. Colonialism has no justification under any circumstances. It is the deprivation of liberty of an entire people in order to exploit their resources or position and, even more serious, the abandonment and surrender of a territory pending decolonization to a third country when domination cannot be maintained. That was the shameful action that led to the dying Francoism and whose consequences we still suffer; in particular, they are suffered by the Saharan people, with whom we have a historical debt. In 1956, the Franco regime granted the Western Sahara the consideration of the Spanish province, number fifty-three. They sent Spanish identity documents to the Saharans and were even recognized as representing them in the dictatorship's courts. In this very House they were sitting. They were Spaniards born in the Sahara, according to the regulations and official terminology, which remained between April 1961 and 26 February 1976, when Spain communicated to the United Nations the abandonment of the territory, with great pain and anger, by the way, by our compatriots who lived there and, in particular, by members of the Armed Forces, who were forced to leave the territory in a shameful way. Six months after that departure, a rule was adopted that allowed the Saharans to opt for Spanish nationality, a rule of impossible compliance, because the territory had already been abandoned and it committed felony to hand it over to the new occupants, Morocco and Mauritania, who intended to subject the Saharan people to blood and fire, on the basis of the declaration of principles on Western Sahara of 14 November 1975, the so-called Madrid Agreement. So shameful was this agreement that it was never even published in the Official State Gazette, although its annexes are registered with the United Nations Secretariat. In practice, Spain sold the Sahara to Morocco, a country that had never exercised effective sovereignty over the territories of Saguia el Hamra and Río de Oro. The shameful price charged by Spain was licenses for six hundred Spanish fishermen to fish in Saharan waters for twenty years and for two hundred more boats to do so in the waters of the Moroccan Mediterranean for fifteen years, and Spain is guaranteed ownership of the public goods that were in the Sahara, except for the goods that were really worth money: 65% of the shares of FOSBUCARA, the phosphate company, was delivered to Morocco. The Madrid Agreement is not valid under article 53 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties, which declares null and void any treaty contrary to international law. By inducing a foreign power to the armed occupation of Sahara, a non-self-governing, decolonization-pending territory, Spain failed to fulfil its obligations as an administering power, violating articles 73 and 103 of the Charter of the United Nations, which oblige us, and continue to oblige us, first and foremost, to develop the self-government of Western Sahara, also to take due account of the political aspirations of the Saharan people and to assist them in the progressive development of their free political institutions. In accordance with UN Resolution 2625, Morocco is an occupying power. [[XXV]] In the occupied territories, the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949 and Additional Protocol I of 1977 on the Protection of Victims of International Armed Conflict should apply. Resolution 3458 of 10 December 1975 of the United Nations General Assembly recognizes Spain as an administering power. [[XXX]] The Security Council, by resolutions of 20 September 1988 and 29 April 1991, endorsed the holding of a referendum on self-determination for the Saharan people, a referendum organized by the United Nations in collaboration with the Organization for African Unity, and approved the peace plan for this referendum in Western Sahara. Forty-seven years have passed since the shameful delivery, forty-seven years in which the Saharan population has had to go into exile to the Tindouf refugee camps or endure violations of human rights and international humanitarian law by the occupying Moroccan force in Western Sahara, which has led to unfair and discriminatory treatment of the Saharan population since then, as everyone knows. With this proposal of law we intend to settle, even if in a limited way, this historical aggravation with three very concrete measures. The first measure would be the granting of Spanish nationality by letter of nature to those born in Western Sahara under Spanish sovereignty, through a procedure very similar to that used - and it is in the law - to grant nationality to Sephardics originating in Spain, to whom a common past was recognized broken more than five hundred years ago - with all fairness -, reason of more to do so when the break of the common past was only forty-seven years ago. The list of documents to be submitted by the Saharans who will qualify for Spanish nationality, according to this proposed law, would demonstrate the direct and close connection of these persons with Spain: the Spanish national identity document, even if it is expired; a certificate of registration in the census for the referendum of Western Sahara issued by the United Nations; a birth certificate issued by the Saharan authorities in refugee camps; the departure of birth; the family book; documents proving the status of public employee issued by the Spanish Administration in Western Sahara, or any other document of a Spanish administrative authority certifying the birth in Western Sahara before 26 February 1976 would also be valid to certify this status as nationals. The second option would be to opt for the Spanish nationality of descendants in the first degree of consanguinity of those who acquire nationality by letter of nature. Our proposal establishes a period of five years from the registration in the Civil Registry of the nationality of the parents, and refers to the ordinary procedure established by Spanish law. And, thirdly, there would be the equivalence in the Civil Code of Saharans to nationals of Ibero-American countries, Andorra, the Philippines, Equatorial Guinea, Portugal and Sephardics, in order to acquire nationality by residence in this case. The absence of this provision in the Civil Code is the height of the grievances committed with the Saharan population, a people and a territory with which Spain still has obligations to the United Nations, being the administering power in the pending process of decolonization. This omission in the Civil Code condemned Saharan residents to multiply by five the number of years required to claim Spanish nationality - from two to ten years -, ignoring the unquestionable and close political and historical link and giving Saharans the same treatment as nationals of a country that had never had any civil or historical link with Spain. On two occasions, the Congressional Justice Commission has unanimously approved the elimination of such discrimination, a unanimity which we believe is also worthy of this initiative, and we therefore call for its support from all parliamentary groups, regardless of which belief is the most viable solution for Western Sahara, a position which they can continue to maintain. It is the way in which this Congress can highlight our proximity to the Saharan people and guarantee a worthy future, as is our responsibility. I conclude by pointing out that for the United Nations, our political priority is the right to self-determination of the Saharan people. We will do our utmost to ensure that this mandate of the United Nations is fulfilled and that the Saharans can be free to decide their future, whatever they want, by holding that referendum so many times and so unjustifiably postponed. Until then, this initiative will be useful to make the life of a people with whom we have a historic debt easier, which we must pay; not only will it be enough to bring Saharan boys and girls to spend the holidays with Spanish families, which is undoubtedly something essential, but we must go further. We therefore believe that this initiative that we are submitting to this House will serve to strengthen future ties between the peoples of free, sovereign and independent States. We call for the vote in favour of all the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Santiago. Mrs Oramas González-Moro has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's agenda.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u32	Thank you, Madam President. The Saharan people do not want an identity card, they want self-determination; that brotherly people of the canaries want a free Saharan. I think you are right, Mr Santiago - moreover, we are going to support the proposal for a law, it would be more lacking! - in which it was shameful what was done at the time of Francoism and in the early stages of democracy. One can understand that in a military dictatorship like that was done. What one cannot understand today, in the twenty-first century, is that a European, Western and democratic country, a friend of the Saharan people - not this country or its government, but an individual president - has betrayed the Saharan people. Why? Because he makes a trip not as secretary general of the PSOE, which would have seemed good to us all, but as president of the government and says that Spain has not changed its position, but at the press conference, the minister himself, with Pedro Sánchez next door, says that he appreciates the recognition of Spain and the change of position of Spain, and Sánchez remains silent. Who did you represent? Spain had not changed its position and the government, where Podemos is, has not reached an agreement, but they have been the president of the government and a part of the PSOE, because we must hear the socialists speak from below. This Congress has not changed its position or, in any case, has not set a position. Mr. Sánchez has gone there to make a fool of himself. It was going to be a historic summit, but the king of Morocco was still on vacation in Ghana. We were going to talk about the median, the waters and those historical bonds friendly with the Moroccan people. Of course, we must have good relations with Morocco and Algeria, but we cannot betray ideas, values and a people. I want to tell you something I've lived through. It's the things I'm glad about, because the important thing about being a Member - I'm going to stop being a Member soon - is not being present in historical times, but knowing that you've served people with names and surnames. I have experienced a terrible case that has to do with this that you bring, Mr. Santiago, that we hope that you will not get into a drawer and that it will be approved as soon as possible. A Saharan girl came to the Canary Islands with two young and deep disabilities, and a friend of mine and his wife, he architect and she who worked in the center where she welcomed that girl, who also came with health problems, but with a very high intellectual disability, had the merit of welcoming her. But they had a problem, that the girl was stateless, and when she turned eighteen, as she was incapacitated, we had a devil's mess, because the girl could not even travel from Tenerife to Gran Canaria or adopt her. In order not to tire them of this case that I have recorded, I will tell you that I managed, with a minister of the Interior, a minister of justice, a judge in Tenerife and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - because one thing had to be done in the camp of a distant relative - that this marriage would get that girl to be his daughter and would cease to be stateless. That is why I believe that what you say is important, because there are specific cases that need to be resolved immediately, but the shame and desire of the Saharan people is not the identity card, but that at once this referendum is held in the United Nations and they can have their own Saharans, their own passport, their own identity, relations of brotherhood with the Canarian people and diplomatic relations with the people of Spain. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u33	Thank you very much, Mrs Oramas. Mr Iñarritu García has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u34	Pick it up on. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, we talk about Western Sahara and the Saharawis. I believe that the proposal brought by the United States today Podemos and which Mr Santiago has perfectly recounted is yet another example of the abandonment suffered and suffered by the Saharan people by the Spanish State, which is directly responsible for this situation. The proposal they bring today, which is doubtful, we are going to support because it seems common sense to us; moreover, we believe that we should not talk about granting nationality, but about restoring nationality to these people. I will focus, in the second part of my speech, on all that has to do with nationalities. First of all, I would like to take up the situation of the Saharawi people in relation to the Spanish Government and the Spanish State at this time. Now, in March, it has been a year since, unilaterally, the socialist side of the Government decided to change its position and to point out that the proposal for the autonomy of the Western Sahara of the Moroccan Government was the most realistic, the most credible and the most serious, and it did so, as Mrs Oramas has pointed out, unilaterally, without bringing it to the General Courts. The reality is that, firstly, the General Courts have struck the Government and asked it to rectify that change of position; secondly, the Frente Polisario has done the same, but it has also cut relations with the Spanish Government, and thirdly, in this so globalized world, another major actor in North Africa, such as Algeria, has withdrawn his ambassador and, contrary to what a minister said that it was a timely gesture and that in a few weeks he would come back, goes for a year and has not come back, and the relationship seems to have no face to fix itself. Politically at least, it seems that they have come out'regul inchi', so, once again, taking into account historical responsibility, international law, but also because the Saharans, the people affected by this House, which is often forgotten, ask them to rectify, because that would be sensible. Two weeks ago, I held a high-level Morocco-Spain summit and, so far, I think it is positive. That States have good relations of friendship and neighbourliness is the right thing to do, that is what the Charter of the United Nations points out, but, of course, when the price to pay is the abandonment of the Saharan people, we talk about something else. Look, all we know about that summit in relation to Western Sahara is that Mr Sánchez has said that the two countries are committed to avoiding what may offend their areas of sovereignty, but if we look back, are there no issues that affect the areas of sovereignty? What happened on 24 June in Spanish territory, in Melilla, when hundreds of Moroccan agents, forces and security forces and also the army entered Spanish territory and there was a tragedy, even a massacre, in humanitarian terms? Nothing; the Spanish Government, in silence. In principle, he said that Morocco's performance seemed correct to him, but then, when he realized what was going on, he said nothing. Similarly, we have seen how, as a smokescreen to cover the Pegasus scandal, an instrument used against independenceists in Catalonia and also in Euskal Herria, the Government said that against them also a state had used this instrument of espionage. What state was behind that espionage? Publicly it has not been meant, but we all know who was behind that spying on the Government. What's going on? Doesn't it affect the Spanish sovereignty sphere? We also see at this moment how Morocco is chasing a Spanish journalist, Mr Ignacio Cembrero, and how the government is acting as if it doesn't know and is looking elsewhere. But there's something else. We have heard that the Moroccan Foreign Minister called his Spanish counterpart to tell him what the position of the Socialist Party should be in the European Parliament three weeks ago. That is: Morocco setting the political position of a government party. We have already seen that it has the capacity to remove and put ministers in Spain, but also to set the political position of a governing party. Is it in areas of sovereignty? Of course. What happens is that you are not offended by what Morocco can do. But what is happening to make this happen? Because I do not say that they should react as in Perejil, but something should say, and they say absolutely nothing. What's going on? Is there also a chapter in Morocco Gate in Spain, or is it that it is not even necessary and it is Morocco that marks the position of the foreign policy of the Government? The facts are there. Turning to the issue brought by the United Nations Group today, we see it in common sense. In the face of the aggravation committed, which returns nationality to those to whom it was deprived, we see it in common sense; moreover, we believe that it should even be done without any time limit, as recognition of a sine die right. And that two years of residence are collected, as is done with other States for historical reasons, we also see it in common sense. I end up saying that the main thing is that Western Sahara has recognized that right to freely decide its institutional future on the basis of a referendum and that it is the Saharans and Saharans who decide what they want to be, without any kind of occupation, pressure or threat. That is the only solution that would be, credible and realistic. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Iñarritu. Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor for the Basque Parliamentary Group, EAJ-PNV.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u36	Thank you very much, President. We are discussing an initiative to establish a special procedure for granting Spanish nationality by letter of nature to those Saharans born before 26 February 1976 in Western Sahara; for their descendants first of all to be able to opt for it within five years of any of their parents acquiring it; and for determining that Saharans require the same period of residence in Spain for the acquisition of nationality as nationals of countries with which Spain has maintained and maintains a historical relationship, in addition to the Ibero-American countries, Andorra, the Philippines, Equatorial Guinea and Portugal. This initiative, ladies and gentlemen, comes to repair, as has already been pointed out, at least partially, some of the responsibilities that the Spanish State has acquired with the Saharan citizenship which until February 1976 was under Spanish sovereignty and had its nationality. Following the tripartite agreements of Madrid in November 1975, and with the consequent approval in August 1976 - following Spain's abandonment of the territory - of the royal decree of option of Spanish nationality, the loss of the Spanish nationality of the Saharans was formalized by giving them the period of one year for them to acquire it again, an option which, obviously, many of them and of which they could not exercise by having already left the territory the Spanish Administration, being in the hands of Mauritania and Morocco and the Saharan citizenship at the disposal of these countries, except for the approximately 175 000 who fled to Algeria, settling to this day in the refugee camps of the desert of Tindouf province. This situation of injustice with regard to Spanish nationality could be resolved when, in 2015, Law 12/2015 of 24 June was adopted for the acquisition of Spanish nationality of Sephardics by letter of nature, by option of their blood descendants in the first degree and as temporarily reduced residence. However, I have to remind you, the absolute majority of the People's Parliamentary Group did not take it into consideration, although this was claimed by some of the groups during the course of the amendments, one of them Republican Left of Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, as I recalled and it is widely shared, Spain has an undoubted historical responsibility and a deep moral debt - it has also been pointed out - with the people of Western Sahara, which begins with their participation in the infamous distribution of West Africa at the Berlin Conference in the years 1884 and 1885, which gave rise precisely to the beginning of the colonization by Spain of Western Sahara, which after several stages, in April 1961, last century, became the province number 43, and its citizens, as Spanish citizens of full right. Years later, in 1965, the implementation of the principles of decolonization of the territory began, precisely as a result of the entry of Spain into the UN, which entailed the recognition by Spain of the right of self-determination of the Saharan people through a referendum to be held in 1975, truncated by the aforementioned tripartite agreements of Madrid, held at the end of the long agony of dictator Franco and few days after his death. [[The Lord]] By these Madrid agreements - as has already been pointed out - Spain distributes Western Sahara between Morocco and Mauritania, with clear abandonment of its international obligations as an administering power, with degradation and discrediting of its reputation. This has its last chapter - it must be remembered again - in the Copernican turn of the Spanish Government's historical position on Western Sahara and on the right of self-determination of the Saharan people, when last March Spain not only considers - yielding to Moroccan blackmail on its southern land border - that the Moroccan initiative for Western Sahara to become an autonomous region of Morocco is a realistic, serious and solid basis for the resolution of the conflict, but points out that it is the most realistic, more serious and more solid basis, thus - we have said in this House on numerous occasions - clearly in favour of the Moroccan theses and against the Saharan people and their right to self-determination. This has been a further milestone in the history of the many outstanding debts to be settled with the Saharan people. The initiative that we are now discussing and to which we will give our support for its processing comes to pay off some of them, such as the possibility of acquiring Spanish nationality for that part of the Saharawi citizenship that wishes to do so, through special procedures for this purpose established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u37	Thank you so much. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u38	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a proposal for a law on the recognition of Spanish nationality to Saharans born when Spanish territory was under Spanish sovereignty, an issue which is not new and which many sectors have traditionally defended on the grounds of our country's historical responsibility with the Sahara. This is a proposal for a law submitted by one of the parties forming the Government of Spain. Anyone would say, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, that you have not sat this morning in the Council of Ministers, that you have not been there, because it seems that you always do everything behind the back of your governing partners. I wonder if you are presenting this bill today as a way to publicly expiate your sins for all the times that this Government, of which you are a party, is bowing to what Morocco requests. In any case, you again use our country's foreign policy with the usual frivolity, as a mere instrument for your internal struggles. Look, the liberals have always defended the need for Spain to fulfil its historical responsibilities with Western Sahara. We have said this here in Congress many times; I think we will not surprise anyone today. The citizens of Western Sahara must be able to fulfil the mandate of the United Nations to complete the decolonization of the territory as established by international law. We, from Citizens, have not changed our stance, but, unfortunately, not everyone can say the same. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government - and I am referring here to the Socialist Party - I will use this intervention to see if I can get you to explain once and for all why our country's historic change of position with regard to Morocco and Sahara, because, months after you changed your position, we are still waiting for explanations from Mr Sánchez; from Mrs González Laya, no, because it was this issue that led to it, but perhaps also from Minister Álvarez. From what we've seen, we'll keep waiting, because the explanations don't come. I ask you: What has happened, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, so that the government of the Socialist Party and the United Party We can have taken this turn and changed the position of our country? Let's do some memory. First, we welcome the leader of the Frente Polisario in our country to give him humanitarian assistance, which we Liberals believed was necessary. So far, there's no problem. The problem comes when this is done without warning Morocco, for a bit of diplomatic courtesy, telling it that this action would be carried out. Then the Government discovers that it has been spied on, using Pegasus, by the Moroccan intelligence services, and nothing happens, nothing happens. What happens next? That the President of the Government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have given no explanation of this situation. Indeed, in a normal democracy, the Government would not only have given explanations on this issue, but would have called on the Moroccan Government to account for such an affront; but here they continue. The Socialist and United Party We may have preferred to take a one hundred and eighty degrees turn in the historic position with Western Sahara and recognize Moroccan occupation as legitimate, even if it was contrary to international law, and nothing has happened here. Once again, we learned of this situation, without explanation to the citizenry, by the press, due to a leak by the Moroccan Government. And here we have a second example of good government management: tensioning relations with Algeria. As we had little, we also went into tension with Algeria, precisely in the midst of the energy crisis and depending on gas imports no longer just for Spain, but for the rest of Europe. But this has one more chapter. We come to this last chapter of the Government's relations with Morocco and, instead of trying to solve all this mischief, the Government of the Socialist Party and Podemos decided to follow the stony path that marked Morocco, a stony path that has led the Socialist Party to give the order to vote against an initiative to promote the defence of freedom and rights in Morocco in the European Parliament. The Socialist Party voted no and the People's Party was not even there, because it does not want to make decisions that are important. As I say, the PSOE voted against defending the rights and freedoms not of the Saharans and Moroccans but of the Spanish themselves; moreover, it voted against the security and integrity of the communications of the Government itself. What did the Socialist Party receive in exchange for voting such a shame? Why did the Socialist Party decide to sit with the extreme right to defend Morocco? Why, moreover, did he do so just when bribery of socialist MEPs by dictatorships is being investigated to vote against resolutions calling for greater respect for human rights? In short, as I said, we find it curious that it is Podemos who is now bringing this bill to Congress. They are progressing that we will vote in favour of their consideration, but what they would have to do is not bring in initiatives like this to wash and clear their conscience, because they know that they have done wrong with the Saharan people; what they would have to do is be serious, correct these historical mistakes, stop playing with our country's foreign policy and think more about the general interest of Spain and less about the particular interest of the parties that are part of the Government. The Liberals will continue to work for it. You know where we are, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, but it gives me the feeling that it is too late and this will not have much solution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u39	Thank you. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. We agree with the granting of nationality to Saharans who wish to do so; moreover, it should not be difficult to assume by the Government because, according to what cases, it is even offered. We listened these days to the foreign minister offering the nationality to 222 Nicaraguan expressmen; with more reason to the Saharans who already had Spanish nationality. It seems to us to be a symbolic question of recognition of Spain as a former colonial power or even as an administering power - I do not know if the difficulty will be there - and it can be an individual, indeed, very useful way out in some cases, but what the Saharan people need is a collective way out, and that is through recognition of Saharan nationality at international level and for all purposes. What the Saharans want is a sovereign and independent Saharan Arab republic. In order to move in that direction, the Government must rectify its infamous, entrepreneurship and unjustifiable turn over Western Sahara by recognizing Morocco's sovereignty and bending the Moroccan dictator. The Government must therefore rectify. In any case, the BNG always stands, by a free Saharan, next to the Saharan people, defending their self-determination and independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u42	Thank you very much, President. On September 28, 2013, a delegation of four parliamentarians, one from the United Left, one from Amaiur-Bildu - Jon, who is still a Member of Parliament here -, one from the PNV and I entered the Sahara. We received twenty-two policemen who, while around us kindly, urged us not to leave the hotel in the four days we were going to be there. It was a parliamentary delegation of the Sahara intergroup. Obviously, we did go out, and we met with all the parties, with all, with Saharan activists, like Aminatou Haidar; with trade unions; with associations of victims of human rights violations; with the Minurso, the UN contingent that is established there; with the wali, the governor of Saharan, and with pro-Morocco Saharan deputies. With our own eyes we saw the situation of occupation of a people, the repression of the Saharan people, the systematic violation of human rights. Of the whole trip, there was one thing that moved me. An old man in a blue robe taught me an old Spanish DNI and asked me a question I couldn't answer, obviously: Why did Spain abandon us? We will support this proposal to redress, even if it is late, the injustice that resulted in its infamous abandonment in 1976 and the indifference of all these years. I think it is an absolutely reasonable proposal, which has been made with other groups, as Mr Santiago has pointed out, or recently with 222 Nicaraguans.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u43	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u44	We believe that not to support this proposal we believe that it would be to continue to deepen in injustice and infamy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u45	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not deny that we were surprised by the proposal for a law that is before us today, because you are part of the government. So we do not understand why they do not present it through the Government and therefore why they present it as a parliamentary group. Hence the surprise. The text has, from our point of view, some contradictions or aspects that are not understood, although in your speech, it is true, Mr Santiago, that you have matified them or clarified them more. For example, you say that in recent years Spain has developed a series of activities aimed at strengthening historical ties with the Saharawi people. We do not know whether they include in these activities - as has already been said - the shift to relations with Morocco by the President of the Government, because you are part of that Government, or include in these activities the support of the President of his Government for Morocco's autonomous plan, violating international law and United Nations resolutions. Frankly, I believe that it is not precisely a question of strengthening ties, which Spain has been doing for a year, but of breaking historical ties with the Saharawi people. You propose the granting of Spanish nationality to Saharans born under Spanish sovereignty, and I'm sorry, excuse, but according to the United Nations, Spain is de facto the administering power of Saharan. Of the seventeen Non-Self-Governing Territories recognized by the United Nations, Sahara is the only uncolonized territory in Africa. It is true that Spain informed the United Nations that it terminated its presence in the Territory in 1976. That is true, but to end one presence is not to decolonize, it is not to pass the responsibility to the other, it is to abandon its fate to a territory. And not because of that communication, Spain has ceased to have its international responsibilities. Another thing is that Spain does not fulfil its international responsibilities, which does not surprise us at all. But leaving all this aside, I wonder: why must a Saharan obtain Spanish nationality, the nationality of a State which abandoned them in 1976; the nationality of a State which has decided not to recognize its right of self-determination and, therefore, not to hold a referendum and which chooses to support the occupying forces of another country; the nationality of a State which does not respect international law? The only possible interest I see is that by obtaining Spanish nationality they also obtain European citizenship. We have doubts. Will you continue your consideration? Have you spoken to your government partners? Did you talk to your counterparts, the part of the government that traveled to Morocco a few weeks ago? We already know that they did not speak to the king, because neither did they speak to the king. If it thrives today, will it remain in a toast to the sun? Is it just a picture and nothing else? Unfortunately, we already have many examples of statements that end up in the drawer. If it is finally processed and adopted, which we would like, what guarantees does Spain have to comply with? You have said, Mr Santiago, that the potential beneficiaries of the real decree of 1976, which allowed Spanish nationality, could not exercise their rights because Spain left the territory. And this is a fact that has also been recognized, even by what some consider to be a Supreme Court, guarantor and independent. That is why I was telling you at the beginning of my speech that we were surprised by the proposal. However, we will support it and if it is finally processed, we will be active. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u47	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rosique i Saltor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u48	Good afternoon. After breaking relations with Algeria in the midst of the energy crisis, Algeria was, by then, the main gas supplier of Spain, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister Álvarez, came to tell us that we had to make a decision that had to be decided between the security of the Spaniards, among which he included the Catalans or guarantee the security of the Saharans; some, allied with Morocco, and we, with Algeria, that in the current geopolitical context both were not compatible. Insolidary, isn't it? For there he revealed something that we could already imagine, that for the Spanish State the Saharan people was a simple toy to play with in geopolitics, in case we had not already become clear about all the historical becoming and all the omissions of responsibility that the State has been developing since the territorial occupation of Western Sahara, but especially since its departure from it. For many consensual cooperation and progress laws that are adopted, for many human rights plans that are agreed upon when deciding on discrimination always acts as a central axis in the foreign policy of this Government. This is the maximum that guides the Spanish State today and in its past. Let's make a brief review of recent history. Colonize Western Sahara, in the full splendor of European imperialism. At that time, the Spanish State already considered that not all its citizens deserved the same rights, that the Saharans as colonized did not even deserve nationality. They were a toy with which to exploit their resources, one more excuse, as Latin America had been to obtain precious metals, rare lands and access to fishing banks, among others. In 1975, with the Madrid Accords, Spanish colonization was terminated, with a three-party agreement, which in no case guarantees the independence of Western Sahara and which did not even have the recognition of the United Nations. From day to morning hundreds of people were abandoned. The Saharawi people were a toy with which to guarantee the territorial integrity of Ceuta and Melilla, and with which to receive support from the United States. Everything, so as not to upset or offend anyone. In 2015, the law recognizing the nationality of Sephardics was passed. In 2015, taking advantage of the processing of this law, Esquerra Republicana, in particular comrade Joan Tardà, requested that this recognition of nationality should also be extended to the Saharans, in response to historical demands and the possibility of amending errors of the past marked by racism. As was foreseeable, according to history, the Saharans were excluded from the law. They were a toy during colonization, and by then they were no longer interested. That was a new sample. Last year the Spanish State decided to change its position. Yes, it changed its position, as the Moroccan State also admitted, with respect to Western Sahara, rejecting the referendum on independence and forcing the Saharan people to simply decide their status within the Moroccan State, despite having the entire Congress of Deputies against and even having against half the Spanish Government. We have told him and we continue to tell him in parliamentary initiatives, in committees and in speeches from this rostrum. The Saharan people were a toy with which to control the southern border and maintain good relations with the United States. On February 1 and 2 the Spanish-Morocco Summit was held, without listening to the Congress of Deputies, before attending the meeting, without transferring the majority opinion of this House which is well known, the Saharawi people were once again a toy with which to control borders. 'We must avoid everything we know that offends the other side', it was agreed at that summit. Neither Marroc Gate nor Pegasus, nor press repression, nor human rights violations of the Ceuta and Melilla fences, nor much less the self-determination of Western Sahara. Once again, choose between one another. For this State, human rights should only be guaranteed to a few. Nothing we knew, nothing we couldn't predict. History shows that this State always stands beside the powerful, next to a Moroccan king who does not even want to meet the president of his State, forgetting the Moroccan people who are suffering from repression and economic asphyxiation on the part of him; forgetting the Saharan people, who are suffering from an occupation on the part of him; forgetting, even, his own people, who call on him, in a majority, to prioritize the defence of human rights. [[Continue your intervention in Catalan.-Applause]] I'm done. With how much they like to ask the independenceists about what they put in our DNI and what they enjoy by imposing Spanish nationality on those who simply reject it, they already have noses that have been rejecting and refusing to recognize those who have said to them as active and passive that they do want it, at least, in this meantime. As a historical duty, as a point and end to a history of discrimination and denial of basic rights towards a population of a territory that was a colony, leaving behind the racist connotations of considering as second-class citizens those who were part of the Spanish State. If one thing should be clear from this initiative, it is that not everyone deserves the same rights for this State and not everyone deserves historical justice. This State discriminates and does so without any scruple. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs López Álvarez has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u50	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, history has no mercy on servile traitors. The loyal partners, the vassals of Pedro Sánchez, use the Saharawi people in this bill, now offering them a prebend after being outraged and humiliated by this Government in its recognized international law of decolonization. [[Applauds]] Because in this proposal of Podemos law there is no loyalty of its proposers with their ideas, nor a problem of conscience, what there is is a purpose of whitening their own formation that we will reveal. I'll explain. To all of us, it sounds like the'most serious, realistic and credible basis' used by the President of the Government to unilaterally hand over Western Sahara to Morocco in exchange for Morocco's satrap continuing to ridicule him in the RAN, that is, in the high-level ridiculous in which a couple of weeks ago Pedro Sánchez was re-naïved by Mohamed VI. That submission to the Alawite monarch was in March a year ago and Podemos swallowed frogs, and snakes, so as not to break the fateful coalition of government, supported in addition by separatists and 2. [[representatives of terrorists]] As I say, that was in March 2022, and in April, that's why the bad conscience, we can record this bill. Let's look at it. What credibility has this supposed good intention of We can bring this proposal to grant Spanish nationality to the Saharawis born under Spanish sovereignty, when they have continued to sit, and in fact continue to do so, in the Council of Ministers of the Government which decides to hand over the Sahara unilaterally to Morocco, blowing up the historic position of Spain and the UN resolution? [[Applauds]] And the truth is that, according to international law, the Saharan people have the right to choose what future they want, but it is also true that Saharans as a people have two great misfortunes. The first is that its future as an independent nation obeys precisely the will of a nation, unfortunately weakened by treacherous governments, such as the current Government of Spain, with a policy of ceding to pro-Morocco interests. Here are some examples. One, letting the Alawite Kingdom persist in its aggressive policy with its claims of sovereignty over the cities of Ceuta and Melilla, even allowing the Embassy of Rabat in Madrid to keep this map on its official website, where Ceuta and Melilla are annexed. [[shows a map]] Two, that the President of the Government is not able to be mentioned at any time in his agreements with Mohamed VI to both cities and to talk about installing regional commercial customs in Ceuta and Melilla. Eye, regional commercial customs between Spain and Morocco; shameful and cowardly is not to call them international customs between two countries, which would become if the Government were able to impose itself on the Alawite monarchy. [[Applauds]] Because Mohamed VI knows that by calling them international customs, he would recognize the undisputed Spanish sovereignty of Ceuta and Melilla. Three, let Morocco decide unilaterally on territorial waters, with Spanish Canary waters. Four, leaving control of illegal immigration in the hands of those who use it at their will to extort us, as was the case with the invasion of Ceuta in May 2021, in which Morocco opened its doors and Spain adopted a low profile in the defense of its borders. Five, not stopping to the Alawite kingdom that has installed a fish farm in the Chafarinas, while the Government of Spain has not even shown the intention to complain so as not to bother the bad guy. Six, supporting the Moroccan plan on the Sahara, changing a State policy without parliamentary debate, with absolute disregard for national sovereignty, the rule of law and existing international law. Conclusion. The relationship between Spain and Morocco is based on a permanent blackmail in which Morocco exercises a very constant diplomacy, while the Government of Spain arranges the pressure, giving in, claudiating and showing a cowardly weakness that affects our territorial integrity. 2 Words withdrawn by the Presidency in accordance with Rule 104.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. He said that the Saharans as a people have two great misfortunes, the second is that their only representation as an international people is a political movement like the Frente Polisario, which since its birth has been protected by all international social communism. [[Applauds]] Both become victims of history to the Saharan people and condition the present and future of an entire people, kidnapped in the midst of oblivion, interests, injustice and indifference. Ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, why did you not bet on urging your Government here today to bring Morocco into compliance with international legality and international commitments? Why not ask his own Government, instead of subjecting Spain to the dictates of Morocco, to make international law and international resolutions prevail in all international forums, which oblige the decolonization of the Sahara and in which Spain has a historical obligation with that territory in the fulfilment of those commitments? For a long time, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, who now want to mark a distance, it is hypocritical to now want to negotiate the nationality of the Saharans when you are part of the Council of Ministers and as such you endorsed Sánchez's decision. And it is a contradiction that the Government to which you are a party recognizes the illegal occupation of Morocco over the territory of the Sahara, violating the mandates of the United Nations and all international law and of the International Court of Justice of The Hague, which affirms that the Sahara has never been Moroccan territory and that there is no link of sovereignty between the Sahara and Morocco and, at the same time, in its immense inconsistency, they want to recognize the Saharawis as persons with a different status than the rest of Moroccans, which is what they would be, in the opinion of Pedro Sánchez...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u51	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lopez. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u52	The corporal... [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u53	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, the offending concepts of the various parliamentary groups will be withdrawn from the Diary of Sessions, as stated in Rule 103. I give the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Jerez Juan. [[The applause of the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, who have stood up, continues]] Ladies and gentlemen, in respect of the representative of the Group of the European People's Party, I would ask you to leave the acclamation and to sit down, please. Any time, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, since the colonization process of Western Sahara has taken place to this day, the recognition of Spanish nationality to persons born in that territory while Spain exercised its sovereignty remains unresolved. Today, no one questions that we are faced with an unfinished, incomplete and imperfect process. We can say that forty-seven years later we are still waiting to address a historic responsibility that as a nation challenges us all. This is an outstanding solution, to which we must come by highlighting the testimony of the historical background of the international context of the moment, the most authoritative doctrine and jurisprudence, and even by taking as a reference the study of particular votes of enormous legal quality. It is not enough a story that is limited to repeating over and over again the consequences of our colonizing history, it is a question of addressing with meaning and rigour the complexity of an unfinished chapter of our recent history, far beyond moral debts or ethical debts. This position has a name that has been maintained by all governments, except for the current one, and is called active neutrality. In this context, our parliamentary group considers it appropriate to raise this debate, as well as the need to broaden it further, if necessary, in order to determine precisely who should be granted the right to Spanish nationality, how and what scope this recognition should have, because each day we arrive later. The vast majority of the Saharans who were born under Spanish rule did not have the possibility of opting for Spanish nationality, and many have died without being recognized for that new state possession. Now, to get to the solution we are looking for, you have to undo the steps and you have to unite the points again. Much has been theorized and judged on the acquisition of Spanish nationality by the Saharans, and in many cases there are conclusions that are in no way compatible with the proposal that today brings us here União Podemos. In the account that contains the explanatory statement, we miss many details, many things that, due to their relevance, have not been taken into consideration. On the one hand, the opinion of our civilists, and on the other, the opinion of our judges. The doctrine and jurisprudence in our country accumulates a great wealth that must be sewn up and we must marry the true will of the legislator to grant a complete solution and a definitive solution to a recognition that has been cronified to us over time. But that said, if this motion for a law broadens your path, and if you succeed - which is to be seen - in taking it forward, I would advance you that the position of my parliamentary group will be loyal in the search for a solution; loyal with our historical background, loyal with the majority will of this House, loyal in accordance with what is established by international resolutions and loyal with our Spanish Constitution. Therefore, let us know the promoters of this initiative that, if they succeed - which is to be seen - they will find a proactive and determined parliamentary group to promote the recognition of the Spanish nationality of the Saharawis who were born under Spanish rule in their day. There is nothing new in this House, since we have not voted favourably before, because no one should be orphaned by the country; no one, orphaned by the state; no one, orphaned by nationality, which is equivalent to being orphaned by protection, which is equivalent to living in permanent helplessness. It was by law in 1975 when the decolonization of the Sahara took place, a law followed by a royal decree that allowed the right to opt for Spanish nationality for persons belonging to the autonomous population residing on national territory. The majority of the Saharan population did not have the opportunity to exercise that right of choice, and many left the territory without documentation, because the circumstances of the conflict prevented many from recognizing the nationality they wanted. These people continue to be engaged and should be limited to the scope of the measure proposed today. Although you consider that you should go beyond granting the letter of nature to the Saharans, you must also bear in mind and invoke in this case - which you have not done - the judgment of the Supreme Court, the 207/2020 of 29 May, which denies the possibility of being considered Spanish of origin to those born in the former Spanish Saharan. Ladies and gentlemen, if this initiative that you are putting forward here is adopted, we - and I have said this - will engage in a debate of serenity and respect, and we will do so without offending anyone, without opening unnecessary wounds, without damaging our international relations, without committing the same clumsiness that has been committed by a government, the Government of Sánchez, with the Sahara, with Morocco and with Algeria in just 24 hours. [[applause]] They changed their view unilaterally, and stole from this Congress an indispensable, necessary debate. You have never, ever, appreciated the consequences: you have suspended trade, banking transactions, friendly treaties, you have come to endanger our energy dependence and, moreover, you have sent us massively migratory flows that ended in tragedy and disaster. Gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I do not know what you are going to do, I have no idea, but do what you do, think twice because this country cannot be allowed more clumsiness once again. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Jerez. For the Socialist Group, Mr Gutiérrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u56	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that this complex, sensitive debate is about how the decolonization process took place - in which we would certainly come to many agreements and points in common - and should not even be used as a bold weapon on the positions of both sides on international issues, let alone as a thermometer on who supports the Saharan cause more or less, which only has to do with this substantive debate in a circumstantial way. This is not a debate on foreign policy, but on internal policy, a debate on a legislative draft, on internal issues, on who has the right to apply for Spanish nationality, on what legal procedure, under what requirements, and on who has the ticks to certify that nationality. That is why, despite the fact that many parliamentary groups have wanted to talk exclusively about international policy and international issues, we believe that we should focus the debate on what we should vote on, on what we can propose to take to the Official State Bulletin. The Socialist Group shares, ladies and gentlemen, that there is an aggravation in the procedure for access to Spanish nationality over the Saharan people with regard to other historical communities of great association with Spain, especially Equatorial Guinea, which also had the consideration of the Spanish province until its independence in 1968. But we believe that, by sharing the objective, we should proceed to equalize the procedures and not create different ex novo and express processes for similar circumstances. We share the goal, which is to end an aggravation, but we do not share the proposed design. First, as other parliamentary groups have mentioned, on legal issues. As you know, there are two more general procedures for obtaining or applying for Spanish nationality: the first, by letter of nature, because they are children of Spaniards, and the second for continued residence, as a general rule for at least ten years before applying, if they are refugees or asylum-seekers for five years and for certain communities with historical links with Spain for a maximum of two years. The proposed law that brings us today United We can propose to apply the first of the procedures, the letter of nature - which is used, for example, in the law of historical memory for children and grandchildren of the Republican exiles who had to seek refuge and asylum outside our borders as a result of the Civil War -, in the case of the Saharawis, when the procedure established for all citizens from Spanish colonies-also repeat, for the case of Equatorial Guinea, because of its similarities since it was the Spanish province until 1968, a few years before the bad decolonization of Western Sahara - is the procedure of abbreviated residence of two years, not the general of ten years for the rest of the cases, nor much less the letter of nature. It is not a whim, ladies and gentlemen, because they consider it to be so numerous opinions of the Council of State, resolutions of the Directorate-General for Registry and Notarial Affairs and at least four judgments of the Supreme Court of 1993, 1998, 1999 and the most recent of 2020. These bodies say that the Sahara was never Spanish territory for the purpose of acquiring nationality because that territory would be considered to be subject to Spanish sovereignty. In fact, in its judgment of 29 May 2020, the Supreme Court states that they are not born in Spain for nationality purposes who were born in a territory during the stage in which this was a colony. [[The lady]] From that legal basis we also believe that it is not the right path for political issues because, as I have said, we agree that the aggravation in the procedure established for the Saharans with regard to other former colonies - and in particular with regard to Equatorial Guinea because of its similarities - must be ended, but we believe that the right path is to equalize processes, not create different processes or express processes for similar situations, creating an aggravation not of the rest over the Sahara, as we now have, but of the Sahara over the rest. But also because this is not only in line with the rulings of the Supreme Court, for example, in numerous rulings, but it is also the political consensus that the various political groups have reached on numerous occasions in this House, particularly for the last time in 2016, when all parliamentary groups request that the Saharawi citizens join the procedure for acquiring nationality by residence within the short period of two years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, even if we agree with the political objective being pursued, we do not agree with the established procedure, that of a letter of nature, because we believe that it must be the same for all the former territories and historical communities linked with Spain. Nor do we agree on some technical issues and, in particular, we do not agree with your proposal that it be the Frente Polisario, as a private organization that does not cease to be, who can issue certificates that facilitate the acquisition of nationality in the case in question. We therefore believe that, on legal, political and also technical issues, what we should do is to promote as a law the political consensus that this House has already reached in 2016, which is to approve the procedures for the acquisition of Saharan nationality to what has already been established for the other former colonies and, in particular, for Equatorial Guinea. To similar situations, the same solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u57	Thank you very much, Mr Gutiérrez.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u58	We move on to the agenda item on non-legislative proposals. We begin with the non-legislative proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group, concerning the referendum as an instrument of political participation and the criminalization of the illegal referendum for the defence of the unity of Spain. For the presentation of the initiative, Mr Sánchez García has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u59	With this in mind, Madam President, you are going to allow me to address a few words to Mrs Cuca, who is absent, but I assume that the Members of the People's Parliamentary Group will convey them to them. If one day I told you I liked Mrs. Cayetana better, today I tell you I like you better. [[Rumors]] Thank you very much for saying that you are further away from VOX than from PSOE, because I hope this will help PP voters understand who they voted for in the past and will not vote again in the future. [[Applauds]] This non-legislative proposal raises three questions. The first is the question of Spain as a nation, beyond what this may mean in the proper sense of positive constitutional law, but what I am going to say is not contrary to what the Constitution provides. Spain as a historical reality, beyond the title of an important essay, is what we defend in this proposal not of law. This means that Spain is not the object of disposition on the part of the people who inhabit it today, at this moment in history. To affirm the opposite would be as much as to return to the premodern heritage monarchy, in which the kings believed - and it was so according to the laws - to be owners of the nation, so that those who challenge what I have just said are defending medieval ideas that I believe they would have been overcome, of course in the Contemporary Age. [[Applauds]] Besides, I'm gonna put you guys on a practical case. I dare also say that perhaps Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, by all of them, could give a copy of the Constitution in a child's version to the President of the Government to see if he understands it, I think with difficulty, but perhaps they do. [[laughs]] I'm going to put you on a practical case. What would happen in Spain if, for example, the inhabitants - all, one hundred percent - of the municipality of Zamora or Albacete said in a consultation that they were separated from Spain and integrated into the Kingdom of Thailand? What would you say? What's possible? Well, if you say it's not possible, it's because there's a historical foundation that justifies the impossibility of that option. And if any Catalan separatist has the temptation to tell me - because of a democratic principle misunderstood, in a childish version - that yes, that such separation and integration in the Kingdom of Thailand would be legitimate, he asked: What if it were a municipality in the province of Gerona? Would you think the same if you wanted to integrate, for example, into the Republic of Indonesia through a popular consultation? What would you say? [[Applauds]] Stop being silly, silly, partial referendums and clear-cut laws to the Canadian because, as you will understand - and with all due respect for Canada - it is not Canada that has the history that has our homeland, you like it little or much, because, of course, what is clear is that you either ignore it or pretend to ignore that history with a permanent misrepresentation. Knowing this, I am now going to talk a little bit about the referendum, which is the second question, the referendum as an institution. The referendum is an institution of direct democracy, which at the origin of democracy, in the history of political thought, is somewhat contrary to the genuine sense of democracy, although there are elements of democracy that are not representative in classical forms of government or in antiquity, for example, even though it seems rare in our day - and there is some residue, in the jury, for example - the designation of rulers by choice by lot. This is what Aristotle defends in politics. But there is a fundamental change, which begins with Hobbes and continues with Locke, by virtue of which what is a technical dossier, representative democracy for the exercise of power, becomes a transfer of political will, so that the same will is confused with the representative and the representative, so that, if there is a disparity between the will of the representative and the representative, this rule of the game is broken. That is to say, this is simply to say that the rulers have to govern with the consent of the governed, which is not what Sánchez does today, because he knows perfectly well that the Spaniards have withdrawn his trust, and that is why he does not convene any of the referendums that VOX is proposing under article 92 - that are consultative, but the call is his power, after approval of this House - neither in the matter of energy nor in the matter of water nor in the matter of the illegalization of parties contrary to the unity of Spain nor in any matter. [[applause]] Why? Because he knows that if he summons him, he loses him, and then he becomes a plebiscite and sees how he goes on in the government. This happened to General De Gaulle. I know that this gentleman, for this Sánchez who is going to pass into the history of Spain by desecrating a grave, is nobody, but, finally, for the people who have studied high school, General De Gaulle is someone in contemporary European history. [[Applauds]] And this gentleman does not have the slightest democratic conviction that General De Gaulle, by losing a referendum without any importance on regionalization - not autonomy, administrative decentralization - resigned from the Presidency of the French Republic. Tell Sanchez too because he is also absent, to see if he learns anything and to see if he goes to the Espasa encyclopedia and looks for the voice De Gaulle; I hope he doesn't put goal - ge, or, ele -, but I wouldn't shock anything. [[Laughter]] Finally, the crime of illegal referendum. But well, let's see, I hope that in this House no one will object to this coming back to the Penal Code. At the initiative of the Government of the People's Party, this offence of illegal referendum was introduced, in order to defend national integrity in 2003. Why? At the time of his accession to the Government of the Generality - nothing new - there was one thing called the tripartite pact: PSC - Socialist Party of Catalonia - in coalition with the Republican Left of Catalonia and with Initiative per Catalunya-United Left. That's nice! First, he was presided over by Mr. Maragall, with a sad memory...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u60	Mr. Sanchez, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u61	Yes, Madam President. Thank you so much and it's over. And then, in 2005, Zapatero arrived and, as he had an agreement in Catalonia and the rest of Spain with these separatist forces, these articles 506, 521 and 576 were repealed, the three bis of the Criminal Code in 2005. Well, it takes them back to the Penal Code, as we all know! Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u62	Thank you very much, Mr Sánchez. In defence of the amendment put forward by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Bal Francés has the floor. Mr. BAL FRANCÉS: Thank you, President. Let us return a little to the theme of the plenary of the previous week, which defended VOX last Wednesday. Here we are enlarged and asked for two things: on the one hand, they ask us to re-enact the crime of illegal referendum, with which we fully agree; and on the other hand, they ask us to use more often the consultative referendum and, in particular, to illegalize the separatist parties, with which we strongly disagree. The most important issue is the following. Mr Sánchez is a gentleman in law, who may intentionally omit the ruling of the Constitutional Court 103/2008 by which the Constitutional Court says that those things that entail the reform of the Constitution cannot be considered in the matter of a consultative referendum. Obviously, reforming the concept of militant democracy leads to reforming the Constitution. In other words, VOX is considering making an illegal referendum and criminalizing the offence of an illegal referendum. You guys have gone a little crazy. [[Denials by Mr Sánchez García]] You want to make the referendum illegal and you confess guilty of an illegal referendum so that you yourself, promoters of this referendum, will go to prison. So, what difference is there between the gentlemen of Esquerra or of Together, who promote an illegal referendum, and you, who promote an illegal referendum? Well, the question, the only difference is the question. Indeed, the criminalization of the offence of illegal referendum needs to be further promoted. Of course it's necessary! Why does it need to be? For it is necessary because the Penal Code is - we have said it many times, it is said many times, I don't know if everyone understands it - the Constitution in a negative sense, that is, it is that with which constitutional values are defended. That is why some jurists get away with it when the crime of sedition is repealed or when the crime of embezzlement is reduced, because constitutional protection barriers are being lowered, because the Constitution is left unharmed. It is a pity that we still have the Supreme Court, this Supreme Court of Fachas, which continues to maintain the disqualification of Junqueras and Compagnie and which has just given the Spanish legislature, the Socialist Party and the Republican Left of Catalonia a good deal of power, which have put forward precisely these reforms by saying that they leave the Constitution defenceless with regard to the crime of sedition when it is carried out without violence or by saying that the type of misappropriation, which has just been published in the Official Gazette of the State, is a Francoist type. The Supreme Court calls the Socialist Party and Esquerra franchisors and establishes a significant lack of proportion between the offence of misappropriation committed by a public official and the offence of misappropriation. I don't know whether this has been a big deal or whether you gentlemen of the Republican Left of Catalonia have been deceived or fooled because you thought that Junqueras was going to be able to run for election and, in the end, see that the Socialist Party has tied you up. But, yes, the offence of illegal referendum must indeed be criminalized because article 92 of the Constitution establishes this consultative referendum on political matters of special importance, which summons the king on the proposal of the Government, authorized by Congress, and which is regulated by organic law, that is, any constitutional values, just what I have said that the Criminal Code must do: protect constitutional values. And because the reality, moreover, shows us that these gentlemen want to do it again and because these gentlemen say things as absurd as voting is not a crime, not knowing that fundamental rights only move within the rule of law and that, therefore, voting against the mandates of the Constitutional Court is indeed a crime and, therefore, the illegal referendum should be. Indeed, it has already been said before, it was Zapatero's visionary who said that it did not take the Criminal Code to protect him, and a few years later, in 2014, the first illegal referendum was mounted and in 2017 the second illegal referendum. In short, it seems that it was necessary. Secondly - very briefly because I explained it the other day here in this rostrum - I want to tell you why Spain is not a militant democracy. It is not a militant democracy for VOX to say that it wants to end the autonomous communities; for these gentlemen, if they do so by legal means, legitimately defended the independence of Catalonia, the Basque Country or the Galician community and for others to defend the plurinational republic. What cannot be done is for you to put in place a referendum for the government to govern its policy in accordance with the real interests of the nation, because the real interests of the nation, if it governs the ruling, are perhaps to illegalize VOX. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Bal. Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor for the Joint Parliamentary Group to set positions.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u64	Thank you, President. VOX proposes that holding an independence referendum is a crime. First of all, they did not need this law to put the political leaders of the referendum on October 1 in prison. And one might think, if it wasn't a crime to call a referendum, how did VOX, in that trial, ask for penalties ranging from twenty-four to seventy-four years? And how did the State Advocate, being already in power at the PSOE, ask for sentences of seven to twelve years? And how did they end up sentenced to terms ranging from nine to thirteen years that, despite pardons, are still serving in the form of disqualification? In other words, all this is not a crime to call for referendums, but by twisting other types, such as sedition and embezzlement. VOX is the boldness, it is the pimple, it is the most grotesque face of the regime of 78, but for the regime they play an indispensable role because it already has some judges less strident in the forms and that, as we already know well in the Catalan countries, they achieve the same effect without notice of care. Second consideration: the offence of convening referendums existed between 2003 and 2005. Today VOX brings it, but let's not forget that the person who introduced this crime was the People's Party and that, despite the fact that in his day Zapatero repealed it, Pedro Sánchezlo once again defended it in the last election campaign. Then the elections went as they went to Citizens, he had to need the votes of Unidad Podemos and Esquerra and that threat remained in nothing. In conclusion, all parties of the 78's regime at one time or another have criminalized the convening of a referendum. That's his idea of Spain, that you can't ask your people if they want to remain part of it. We will never think of saying that no matter who is in the Government, if any, but as far as the plurinationality of the State is concerned and how they respond to a majority desire in Catalan society, there is indeed a consensus that goes from VOX to the PSOE, and that is democratically regrettable because it feeds a Spanish nationalism, intransigent and uniformizing. In the same way that the left does not coincide with the right on many issues relating to civil or social rights, it should not coincide with the treatment of plurinationality, self-determination or referendums. And, look, that does not mean that you move on to independence, but that you only respect the majority will in our society to be able to decide your future democratically. We already have, of course, that they would campaign for no, but as long as this does not happen, the only thing we have before are different versions of the same repressive Spain, which denies referendums and punishes them if you do them without their permission; an idea that today brings us VOX, but which has been shared on previous occasions by the People's Party and the Socialist Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Legarda Uriarte has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u66	Thank you very much, President. Last week we discussed a VOX initiative, a motion calling on the Government, among other things, to illegalize separatist political parties and those that are contrary to the very existence of Spain and its sovereignty, although it certainly did not specify exactly who it was referring to as regards the latter. To the pro-European Union? The feds? Republicans? To those who advocate another social and economic order? To those who ask for the secularity of the State? Obviously, it was not approved by this House, nor was the request to the Government to recover - it is understood that as a bill - the definition relating to the convening and holding of illegal referendums, introduced by Organic Law 20/2003 with a particular procedure and with the sole vote of the absolute majority of the People's Party and subsequently repealed by Organic Law 2/2005 when the People's Party, in the next electoral process, lost the elections, which resulted in a proposal for a law that culminated in the organic law that quoted them, 2/2005, signed by practically all groups of the House, except the People's Party: Socialist Group, Catalan of CiU, Esquerra, Basque of the PNV, Green Left and United Left, Initiative for Catalonia and Canary Coalition. Now, ladies and gentlemen, last week's initiative is repeated by the VOX Parliamentary Group. His rejected motion brings it back to us in the form of a non-law proposal. We will therefore not enter into the debate that VOX proposes to us with obstinacy, stubbornness and obsessiveness, since it implies, with regard to the illegalization of political parties, the ignorance of one of the four higher values of its legal order that advocates the social and democratic state of law in which the State is constituted through article 1 of the Constitution, which is political pluralism; in addition to ignoring in a frontal way and knowingly that the Constitution is not a militant Constitution, as the Constitutional Court has affirmed in numerous judgments, and that there are no parts of the Constitution that are unalterable and unalterable, provided that, yes, the reform procedures set out in the Constitution itself are followed. And as far as I am concerned - I am finalizing, President - to the recovery of the characterization of the convening and holding of illegal referendums, as the People's Parliamentary Group did in the VIII Legislature in the Organic Law cited 20/2003, we refer and give for a reproduction what is stated in the explanatory statement of the Organic Law 2/2005 that deleted it. His motivation has not lost an apex of actuality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. Legarda. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u68	Thank you, Madam President. You also come up here to say that this government is the worst in eighty years and, therefore, assuming as good the governments of Francoism, as you do, as last week, to call for the illegalization of nationalist, sovereignist and independenceist political forces; to restrict a moment ago the right to vote passively, and now to ban referendums, that is, to prohibit the exercise of democracy. You are allergic to democracy, but above all you are allergic to the difference, to everything that does not fit your decadent idea of an imperial Spain. They do not assume the reality of a Spanish State which is plurinational, because yes, Galicia is a nation, which has different cultures in our language, and therefore also has peoples with aspirations. I am rereading a book by comrade Botran in which he mentions that known saying that the English empire negotiates 5 minutes before losing and the Spanish 5 minutes after losing, in relation to how the Spanish intransigence avowed the Latin American Creole elites, who were only asking for autonomy, to embrace the cause of independence. Keep going so we're good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u69	Thank you, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Boadella Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u70	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the non-law proposal has two very different parts. One that is easily refuted by the concept that there is no militant democracy in Spain. Spanish democracy is not militant with the Constitution, it is of accession, it is not of substance, but it is of procedure. And this, Mr Sánchez, you should know, because the Spanish Constitution contemplates the constitutional reform, the Constitutional Court's ruling of 25 March 2014 enshrines this principle and the law of political parties of 2022 also goes in the same direction. With this, your idea of illegalizing parties that we do not communicate with the Spanish Constitution has no legal basis whatsoever in this order that you point out. And it is that, in short, it is not a model, as we said, of submission, as you propose, but of accession, and the question here is: what is your proposal in the face of this political situation? Don't you understand that there are people who don't feel challenged by the model of state that you are advocating? In the second part of the proposal you propose a non-law proposal when you have enough quota to process a law proposal. You could do so and not spend it on the shift you've used before, but the truth is that when you accuse the government of not having the necessary support, maybe you should look in the mirror and know whether VOX has the necessary support or not, because you rely on the Constitution and that Congress is the representation of national sovereignty, but at the moment you lose all votes and, instead, the government is winning the legislative changes it makes. Therefore, recognition of this House should make you not support your thesis in a fiction of whether or not national sovereignty is supported.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u71	Mr. Boadella, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u72	There are the support that currently exists in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u73	Thank you very much, Mr Boadella. Finally, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u74	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today VOX proposes once again to invoke Carl Schmitt's ghost. I tell you to be calm, the defender of the Constitution, with his Spanish nation and with his sacred Constitution, a Constitution, yes, indeed, militant, which does not understand freedoms or rights, is very much alive. It is so when Mr Lesmes says that the whole Spanish legal system rests not on freedoms and rights, but on national unity; or when the prosecutor Zaragoza releases that holding a referendum on self-determination will always be a crime, no matter whether it has been decriminalised; or, yesterday, with the revision of penalties that Mr Marchena took out of his sleeve, a political weapon, pure judicial prevarication to punish the enemy, to punish the dissidents, the representatives of the people of Catalonia. We, from the moment their courts see violence in people who manifest themselves or who vote, or enrichment and misappropriation in policies that they do not like, don't care if they want to penalize the convening of referendums or 'want to illegalize the independence parties. We are no longer there, we are not to seek protection in their laws or shelter in their institutions. We are outside this bubble, and more so after the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, a success of the Catalan exile which puts in place all those who are in the national constitutionalist dream, all, and the socialist government the first. That they want to illegalize us is not the problem. The problem is that there is still some independence in the self-deception of the dialogue table. A dialogue with the PSOE of Sanchez and Montero, with those who applaud the harassment and overthrow of Marchena? Is this the outcome of the dialogue table? The problem is not just VOX, the problem is to whitewash the Spanish state and the regime of 78 and its repression, negotiating a penal reform from the weakness of a party strategy; a reform that we all knew, because we were told by the PSOE, which was to repress more and better. The corporal. They can illegalise what they want, because the independence referendum was already held on October 1, 2017, and the result was proclaimed by Parliament in the declaration of independence of Catalonia on October 27. A legitimate and legal referendum, because when a nation is self-determined it does not ask for permission; and an existing declaration, which have no doubt, we will implement when they least expect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u75	Thank you, Mr Pagès. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mrs Telechea i Lozano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u76	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Last week we had a similar debate about a Citizens' motion and this week with the fear on the part of VOX..., with the problems that people have, is that you say it yourself in your GNP, that there are much more important problems that people have right now. Finally, I would like to make some comments on GNP. The first thing is that it has surprised us that you are talking about a referendum, because we think that this term was not within your vocabulary, because everything that is vote and urn I think it gives you a bit of hives. What has also surprised us is that in your GNP you recognize that the referendum of 1 October was not a crime because it was not covered by the Criminal Code, because you now ask to be covered. [[Applauds]] So, I don't know how much to interpret this GNP. The second axiom presented to us with its GNP is that the trial process is going to be a farce, as we have always said from the beginning. But it has not surprised us one thing: that you have learned this new word, but that you want to use it for your own purposes. Then you can call a referendum and we can't. I mean, you can do it because yes and we don't, because you don't like what we think; of course, of course. The third thing that has surprised us is that, having such good lawyers within your parliamentary group, you have drawn up such an unscrupulous and contradictory GNP. First, a PNL; if you really believe it, make a legislative initiative as God commands, not a non-law proposition, which knows the degree of connection it has. But they also propose to convene a referendum, and when they have convened and carried out it they want to illegalize it in the Penal Code. I don't know how they intend to do it; that is, are they going to do the referendum first and then illegalize it? They show that they have very little knowledge of the territorial reality, or that they do not want to have it. I'll settle for the second. In addition, in their GNP they say that we want to destroy Spain. But they're wrong! Wrong Isimos! I'll explain it to you so you can understand. We do not want to destroy a State; it is that we do not want to be part of a State that serves the regime of 78, with Francoist structures that control the three powers of the State, which economically drowns Catalonia, increasingly, that violates our rights and freedoms, with kings and politicians who steal... [[rumors and applause]] Come on, we don't want to be part of a state like this. It's not that we want to destroy it; it's that we don't want to be a part of it! And those who want to stay, let them do it. Hey, we don't get in here. Anyone who wants to stay here, let them do it. I'm on my way. We are convinced that the people of Catalonia, the citizens of Catalonia, will do well, will do better outside this Spanish state. And by the way, no matter how many others say, let Catalonia have no referendum!, let it be done to the idea, because there will be. I'll say it again and we'll say it again: we'll do it again. Catalonia will decide its future. [[Rumors]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. Because we are not afraid of the ballot boxes, as you are; we are not afraid of the ballot boxes, because the only way - as we have already said, not us, but at international level - to resolve a political conflict is through democracy and through the ballot boxes. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Telechea. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations, Mr Asens Llodrà has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u78	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you are very tired. With the problems that people have and you come with a proposal with the usual kits: the process, Catalonia, ETA and with a vision of what it is to be very close patriot. To be a patriot is to climb up here with a flag on your wrist and talk all the time about Catalonia and terrorism. ETA no longer exists; the process is over, we are at another stage; and the flags are no longer for eating. Being patriotic isn't that. To be patriotic is to defend public services. To be patriotic is to go out on the street, as thousands of people did this weekend in Madrid and other cities to defend public health. [[Applauds]] More popular patriotism and less bracelet patriotism, ladies and gentlemen. And, also, fewer recycled motions. Let's see if they get to work, because the legislature is moving forward and the motion of censure has not yet been seen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to recognize one thing, one virtue; you have one virtue: you are honest, you do not deceive. The People's Party cheats not to scare, but you go face-to-face. Today they come here and propose to us nothing less than illegalize those who consider the enemies of the homeland and imprison them if they propose citizen consultations, because they consider the nation to be threatened. In his explanatory statement, without complexes, we are told that the nation, sovereignty, belongs not only to the living Spaniards, also to those who are to be born and to the ancestors, to those who died. That's right, isn't it? That's his idea of a nation. That is, for the whole world to understand, the nation does not belong to the Spanish people, to the citizens of flesh and blood, it belongs to Spain. And what is Spain? Well, they decide. For them Spain is a sort of metaphysical, eternal, almost religious entity with which they are in contact, and they consider that when that entity is threatened it has the right to defend itself by all means, even force - we have been told many times - even against the majority of citizens if it is necessary. Sounds like that music to you, I guess, don't you? Of course it sounds to you, because VOX is anchored in the past and, therefore, when election campaigns come, they ride on a horse with Mr.Abascal to win back Spain against anti-Spain, like my Cid, and go to the monument of Covadonga of Don Pelayo. Because you believe that you are in a kind of crusade against the heretics, against the impure, and you remain anchored in the Spain of the nineteenth century, that of Donoso Cortés, the Spain that embedded, the Spain that wants to freeze my heart, that of Calvo Sotelo when he raised, shortly before the coup de Franco, precisely the same debate that you are raising. Ladies and gentlemen, be updated; be updated because the idea you have from Spain is so uniform and narrow that it is incompatible with the Constitution. When you say that the nation is above democracy, you are lucky that democracy is above you and allows you to say these barbarities; and it suits us, because the country we defend is wider. The country that you defend is very small, hardly anyone can fit. Trans people and emigrants are not allowed; progressives are not allowed; federalists and liberals are not allowed, the real liberals, Mr Bal, who are the liberals who do not abstain when the gentlemen of VOX come with these kinds of proposals. In the last they abstained; I do not know what they will do now. True liberals defend political pluralism. Nor can there be any of the 10 million Catalans or Basques who have our language, our culture; I do not have it and, above all, it is not up to the independenceists or the nationalists, who want to illegalize their parties, to almost 3 million. We know that these are the first; then the next ones will come, because their list is very long and, therefore, many people want to flee their Spain. If almost half of the Catalans became independent, what do you think would happen if you were in the government? Well, I don't know, it'd be an independence factory. But not only in Catalonia, but in the rest of the state everyone would want to flee their Spain from hatred, xenophobia and machismo. Everyone would want to run away from their small Spain. Get up to date, because you have a problem with democracy. They do so when they appeal to the king or the army to act against the tyrant Sánchez and his illegitimate and criminal government, who say it is worse than that of the dictatorship; or when they do not condemn the attempted coup d'état in the United States or in Brazil, their allies. Commit yourselves to democracy and respond to something that people have a right to know: what will they do if the right-wings do not win in the next elections, if they are not in the government? Are you going to respect the result? [[Rumors]] Because being a Democrat - and I finish - what defines a Democrat is not the way it comes to power... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u79	Mr. Asens, you have to finish. Wait a minute. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u80	I'm on my way. What defines a democrat is not the way he comes to power, what defines a democrat is his willingness to give it to the decision-maker of the citizenry. You believe that power belongs to you and that if it is not you who occupy it, it is unlawful; but I tell you one thing: if in two dictatorships of the last century that plural, real Spain has not been erased, neither will you succeed. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Asens. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Tirado Ochoa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u82	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The State must be protected from the manifest and repeated threats and independent blackmail. We must recover the crime of illegal referendum suppressed by the socialists that the People's Party introduced. After the Supreme Court attested yesterday to the State's lack of protection because of the new ridiculousness of the Government, it was more than necessary to criminalize the illegal referendum. The amendment to the Criminal Code implemented by the Government, which eliminates the crime of sedition and the reduction of embezzlement, leaves the State unprotected in the face of acts such as those that led the independenceists in Catalonia. It has become clear that Sánchez has unprotected the State to benefit its partners; he has changed the Criminal Code into a budget negotiation; he has legislated thinking of individuals and not of the general principles of law. But it has also become clear to those of us who believe in the rule of law that justice defends the State better than the Sánchez Government itself. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we must be able to anticipate the threats of radical nationalism that they will do so again. Here, the previous speaker - who is your partner in this Parliament, Socialists - has said that you will try again. That is why this crime is more necessary than ever in the Penal Code. [[Applauds]] The Penal Code should serve to prevent us from being beaten against democracy. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, it is clear that we agree on point 2 of your initiative to promote measures for the recovery of the crime of illegal referendum. How can we not agree if it is a copy of the spirit of the bill that has been recorded by the People's Group in this Parliament? [[Applauds]] However, what we do not agree with is point 1 of your GNP. You know that our democracy is not a militant democracy and, unlike other European constitutions, there is no duty of ideological adherence to the content of our Constitution. Political pluralism, as has already been said in this House, is a supreme value of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, we must combat separatism with strength and firmness, but also with rigour - yes, with rigour - always demanding compliance with the law, defeating them in the ballot box, but never violating the constitutional spirit. Gentlemen of VOX, do you not realize that it would be a genuine barbarity illegalized because you do not believe in the territorial model of autonomy that our Constitution contemplates? [[Applauds]] I therefore ask you to vote separately by points. Pedro Sánchez can't be trusted, he doesn't have a word. He went on to say that he was going to propose the crime of illegal referendum to repeal the crime of sedition, to reduce embezzlement and to approve pardons for his independence partners; in short, a turn of one hundred and eighty degrees from someone who, like Pedro Sánchez, is capable of everything so long as he is one more minute in the Moncloa. The People's Party is the solution and works for the solution. The solution is the Constitution, which in its article 2 makes it clear that it is based on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, the common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards. That is where the People's Party stands, which defends that Spain is diverse and plural; diversity enriches us and unity strengthens us. What affects Spain is decided by all Spaniards, because national sovereignty resides throughout the Spanish people, and we will not consent that in the infamous and ill-called dialogue table we will remember a referendum by the back door. I reiterate that it is necessary to re-enact the offence of illegal referendum because, as President Feijóo has said, in everything that is illegal, the more clarity and concreteness there is, the better. The People's Party is a State party that has developed an institutional quality plan to provide maximum protection for the Constitution and the territorial integrity of Spain. That is where we propose once again to repeal all the legislation adopted by the Socialist Group. We again propose that the crime of sedition be re-entered into the Criminal Code, that the penalties for embezzlement be re-entered and that the crime of illegal referendum be re-entered. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u83	Mr. Tirado, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u84	It's over, President. That's why I'm telling you that our commitment is to the rule of law, to the unity of Spain, to Catalonia, to that vibrant Catalonia, to that Catalonia of men and women who were a model for all Spaniards...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u85	Mr. Tirado, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u86	...that Catalonia of concord. There will always be the People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Tirado. For the Socialist Group, Mr García Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u88	Thank you, President. The non-legislative proposal that VOX has defended represents a democratic misconception that clearly reflects how far this party is from the 1978 Constitution. Our Constitution reflects political pluralism as a superior value of our legal system, but VOX seems more in favour of the single party and the universal unity of destiny that formed part of the ideal of the regime that we buried in 1978. As we all know, our supreme norm - it has been repeatedly said here - is not a militant Constitution, it enshrines freedom of thought and therefore does not prescribe any ideology. According to its provisions and the Organic Law of Political Parties, only a court can declare the illegality of a political formation. It is therefore a political nonsense to suggest that a referendum can decide on the illegalization of parties. Ladies and gentlemen of the far right, do you imagine that we are asking the referendum on Spanish society whether they want to illegalise VOX because it is contrary to Title VIII of the Constitution and because of its message of hatred and xenophobia? Guess what the result would be? [[Applauds]] VOX knows all this, but how it emerged from the heat of the conflict in Catalonia, every time the elections get closer, it again tries to place on the public agenda the illegalization of the independence parties and the unity of Spain. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, I say to you that the unity of Spain is not in jeopardy and is guaranteed through many instruments, not those which you believe, but those which I am going to list. The unity of Spain is defended by the 169 articles of the Constitution, not only by article 2. The unity of Spain is defended with the single Social Security box, which allows to deploy territorial solidarity between generations, which our public pension system guarantees, and which, moreover, allowed to implement the minimum vital income. [[applause]] The unit of Spain defends itself with the National Health System, which allows any Spaniard to be cared for regardless of his place of residence or current account. By the way, public health which you want to privatize, but the People's Party has already been advanced to you, because where you have been ruling for decades you have been trying to privatize it, as in the Community of Madrid or, as was clear yesterday, in the Community of Andalusia. [[Applauds]] The unit of Spain defends itself with the national blood donation system, which allows saving the life of a citizen of Lérida with platelets donated by a citizen of Badajoz. The unit of Spain defends itself with the national system of organ donation that allows a multiple donation in Vitoria to save the lives of several citizens of Albacete, Pontevedra or Tenerife. [[Applauds]] The unity of Spain is defended by the system of public education, which has become the largest factory of equality and social cohesion; public education that VOX wants to put in the hands of the market. The unity of Spain is built with the solidarity of the workers who allow collective agreements to improve the conditions of the workers of the small enterprises with the strength of the workers of the big productive centers. The unity of Spain is defended by the integration of immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, go to the Sun Gate, which is in construction, and you will see a crucible of countries from which the workers who work there come. VOX, on the other hand, only offers these workers speech of hatred and xenophobia. [[Applauds]] The unit of Spain defends itself when the forest firemen of the autonomous communities and the Military Emergency Unit collaborate in any of the major fires in Catalonia, Andalusia, Galicia or Extremadura. The unity of Spain is built with a decent interprofessional minimum wage, as this government does, which helps to narrow the gap between the most precarious. All these straps keep the building called Spain. Spain is not in danger of losing any part of its territory. But, if we do not eliminate inequality and poverty, we do run the risk of losing a good part of the Spanish and Spanish. The government of Pedro Sánchez strives to defend the territorial unity of Spain, but, above all, in the unity of Spanish society so as not to leave any compatriot behind. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, in the face of their Carpetovetonic patriotism, the Socialists defend Habermas' constitutional patriotism; that is, the Constitution from Article 1 to 169; patriotism that leaves freedom, equality, equity, justice and public services. [[Applauds]] These are our flags and, above all, are the values embodied in our Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u89	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Mr Sánchez asked whether your group accepts the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u90	We're considering it, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u91	All right, as soon as you have the answer, give us the Bureau the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u92	That's how we'll do it. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) together with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for Europe (Christian Democrats) on the one hand, on the other hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other. [[File number 162/000774]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u93	We continue with the non-legislative proposal of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, concerning the promotion of bone marrow donation. Mrs Vidal Sáez has the floor for the presentation of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u94	A diagnosis of cancer is not easy to fit. Cancer is very present in life and fiction, but when you go through it you find yourself alone and sometimes you are. Talking a lot about something doesn't mean doing it right. Quantity does not involve depth. Society responds with fear and with pure self-defense to diseases: everything will be fine, your hair will grow again, I have a friend who has already passed by three and is still here. There is no need to talk more about cancer; there is a need to talk more about cancer. There's a lack of emotional intelligence and more to do. Cancer is not faced with laughter, but with science; it's not a mystical experience that makes us grow; it's a bitch, and we don't want pats on the back. For example, we want you to write in the Register of Donors of bone marrow. It is not up to us in this House, or anyone else, to dictate to anyone how to face such a diagnosis. What is in our hands is to decide the resources we devote to science and research, under what conditions we work for doctors, nurses, auxiliaries or maids, and what support we give to people and families who go through it during treatment and then, because we never talk afterwards. It is also up to us to spread progress and to be speakers of good practices that can save lives. This is what this initiative is about: spreading. In our fear we sent ourselves - I told you once - and this GNP is born of a man who responded to the fear with solidarity, who turned the personal into a politician and who sought the involvement of all of us through the Osoigo platform. It's a huge joy that you're here today. Welcome, José Manuel. [[Applauds]] José Manuel is 34 years old and is from Seville. In March 2017 he was diagnosed with a stage 4 Hodgkin lymphoma. Since then he has lived with this reality: chemotherapy, immunotherapy, getting up, falling, starting again, to another transplant, long income, truce, side effects, mental health, more immune, chemo and allogeneic bone marrow transplant. José Manuel needed a donor and, as usual, neither his sister nor anyone in the family were compatible with him. Every year 6400 people are diagnosed with leukemia in Spain. They're going to need a bone marrow transplant, many of them, to get over the disease. It is the only hope, in fact, for many of them. At the harshness of the diagnosis, cancer, follows the calvary of finding a donor, your donor. Montse Claparols, coordinator of the Banco de Sangre y Tejidos at the Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, told me that when you have to operate to no one it goes through the head that the blood you will need is available or not. Don't even think about it. The transplant can only be given with one compatible and three out of four patients who are going to need it do not have a compatible family member. It is to locate these non-family donors that there are precisely voluntary donor registries in almost all countries. Joseph's donor, for example, was from Austria. If you are between 18 and 40 years old and have not suffered any serious or communicable disease go to your reference hospital and register for the donor registry. It's just a blood sample, it's a tube, something very small. It's not painful, it's not complicated. It basically consists of replacing the patient's sick cells with healthy cells of a compatible donor. It has nothing to do with the spinal cord. The bone marrow itself is not exhausted; it is completely regenerated. It's not dangerous for the donor. It doesn't happen that if you give it then you can't give it back to another family member. It can be donated several times. In fact, unfortunately, for most of those registered in the registry, it will only assume an analytics or a smear in the mouth, because one, just one in three thousand registered, will end up being a donor compatible with a patient. One in three grand. Matching in this is frankly difficult, but, as claimed by the Bank of Blood and Fabrics and also the Josep Carreras Foundation, this may be the match of your life. The best motivation is to search the Internet. If you look, you will find that there are thousands of petitions; thousands of families mobilized, organizing campaigns to encourage spinal cord donation or seeking compatible donors. We don't need sweet phrases. We need more people on the register. Margarita Paneque, CSIC research director in Andalusia and also a compatible donor, said very recently: Despite the great significance she could have for someone else's life, my role as a donor was going to be simple. It cost me practically no effort. Easy, fast and that can literally save someone's life. There's no better way to build community than it is. There's no better way to take care of us than this one. Donate blood and donate bone marrow. Thank you very much, Joseph and Osoigo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vidal. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Velarde Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u96	Thank you, President. My partner explained it perfectly, Aina. If it's already hard to face cancer, imagine assuming that your survival depends on someone you don't know and that, in addition, it must be compatible with you one hundred percent and, at best, it's thousands of kilometers away. Not only do you put your life in the hands of doctors and science, as in other types of cancer, but you put your life in the hands of a person who has voluntarily decided to save a life. In the eleven years I've been fighting to fight myths, what I've found is misinformation. I think it's because of the word transplant and what it's associated with. But it's not an operation, they don't take part of your spine away from you. The spinal cord is confused with the bone marrow, as many people have told me. The most common thing is that you go through a process very similar to when you donate platelets. Most Spaniards are transplanted by German, American or other foreign donors. We therefore have a long way to go in our country. It is not fair to leave that weight to platforms like Dona Médula Cordoba or people like Pablo Raez and so many others who have put their body to report. Nor do I want to think that, being a reference in organ, blood or platelet donation, we should not be a marrow because of the economic cost involved. What is right is to thank, and I want to do so deeply, the Josep Carreras Foundation, which has been taking care of what our public administrations had to do for thirty years. Thank you for your struggle, for the research, for providing second opinions, for welcoming displaced patients and for having made Spain part of the global donor registry. Thank you very much. Thanks also to all the donors of the marrow, because to the sick and the family, who broke our hearts with a slap of reality that steals your innocence and fills you with fears and uncertainties, you have cured us with your solidarity. Don't save just one life, save many lives, I want you to know. Thanks to the doctors, nurses and auxiliaries, who support us, the ICO of Hospitalet, the ICU of the Bellvitge Hospital, the Reina Sofia Hospital and its photopheresis unit, all of whom in every corner of our country you leave your skin to save lives through public health. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u97	Mrs. Velarde, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u98	I'm on my way. Thank you and happy birthday to those of you who have the fortune of having two birthdays and you can celebrate life. My most meaningful memory also for those who did not have that second chance, and all my love for their families. I ask you, please, to make medulla donors and we will unravel the myths about the donation. I wish we could get lucky someday and get that call to donate life to life. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u99	Thank you very much, Mrs. Velarde. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. On a previous note, I would like to point out that this is a parliamentary initiative which is useful in highlighting one of the issues in which Spain has been a world leader for many years thanks to our national system of organ transplants. Let me mention and quote Dr. Rafael Matesanz, founder and director for almost thirty years of the National Transplant Organization, when he stated that 'there is no biomedical or scientific activity in Spain that has in the world a recognition or remotely similar to that of our system of donation and transplantation'. Indeed, the Spanish model distinguishes us from the world and must be a source of pride. Ladies and gentlemen, the two points of the non-legislative proposal put forward by Mrs Vidal Sáez and Mrs Velarde Gómez focus on promoting the importance of awareness and information about bone marrow donation, issues that I can only agree with, although I believe that it can be expanded in line with the content of the various amendments tabled to this initiative. I encourage the Members of Podemos to seek common points so that since the plenary session of the Congress we urge the Government to improve a work that, I repeat, is a reference for the world and that in the field of tissue donation has very defined objectives in the National Plan of Donation of bone marrow, in order to continue to increase the number of donors already registered. Ladies and gentlemen, the donation of bone marrow to transplant is a therapy that began in the middle of the last century and allows to replace sick bone marrow with healthy tissue, usually stem cells that are found in the blood, that is, the transplant facilitates treatment for different haematological pathologies, specifically leukemia, but also other blood diseases, case of lymphomas, spinal aplasia and myelomas. In Spain this type of donation received a huge boost thanks to the foundation created in 1988 by the great tenor Josep Carreras. This foundation has since 1994 managed the Register of Donors of bone marrow, REDMO, and represents Spain internationally. In fact, only a month ago the Ministry of Health published the agreement between the National Organization of Transplants and the Josep Carreras Foundation for the development of a programme to promote the donation of hematopoietic parents from unrelated donors. It is an agreement that updates and renews the agreements that the Ministry of Health has been regularly formalizing with this foundation for years. And, seeing its broad content and, above all, its results in the number of transplanted patients, we are faced with a collaborative formula that works reasonably well. Ladies and gentlemen, following the impact of the emergence of COVID-19, which conditioned the lives of citizens and altered daily activity in hospitals and health centres, there has been an increase in the transplantation of hematopoietic parents of unrelated donors. Despite the obstacles to the pandemic, a record number of transplants were achieved in 2012, resulting both from the number of donors registered and from the great effort of health professionals. In this regard, it should be recalled that, in the freezer of the Congress of Deputies, for more than two years there has been inexplicably a proposal for a law to correct and combat the serious shortage of nurses. Finally, I have tabled an amendment to add to the operative part of this non-legislative proposal to urge the Government to increase financial support to researchers to enable them to update their specific equipment, appliances and machinery. Speaking of stem cells, I cannot fail to mention the tenacious work of researchers in this field, and let me remind the Asturians, who have spent many years of dedication and effort. My amendment also contains a second paragraph on the incorporation into the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicines and Health Products of New Products for the Treatment of Immune System Diseases. If there is something to explain to thousands and thousands of patients with rare diseases and others that are not so much, it is precisely the reasons why certain medicines are not funded in Spain and yet are funded in other countries of the European Union. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr Callejas Cano has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. If we can be proud of something the Spaniards is of the National Health System that we have built among all and, especially, of the jewel of the crown, the National Organization of Transplants, which is a world reference and of the best of the brand Spain. In relation to the donation of the bone marrow, it is a representative example of the success of public-private collaboration in health, while the Spanish Register of Donors of bone marrow, REDMO, created in 1990, is managed by the Josep Carreras Foundation, in coordination with the National Organization of Transplants, under the Ministry of Health and the Autonomous Communities. It has been integrated into the National Health System since 1994 through agreements signed by the Ministry of Health and the Foundation itself. It has been the governments of the People's Party that have given the most impetus to the donation of bone marrow: in 2012, implementing the National Plan of Donation of bone marrow, which has managed to make today 474 455 donors available in REDMO - encourage from here to all those who may be donors to register - and in 2014, regulating the promotion and publicity of the donation. Since then, little progress has been made in this area since the Ministry of Health. That is why we in the Group of the European People's Party believe that we must be ambitious in this area, and we therefore put forward a number of constructive proposals, of which I will only mention seven. First, to strengthen the great work of the National Organization of Transplants with more material and personal resources. Secondly, to highlight health professionals in this task, as well as patient associations, scientific societies, clinical researchers and, above all - above all - voluntary bone marrow donors. Third, urgently implement T-lymphocyte cell therapies for the treatment of infections, in clinical trials currently and, in the very near future, CARs-T therapy, also with T-lymphocytes, of healthy donor. Fourth, update the current National bone marrow donation plan. Fifth, to periodically promote new awareness campaigns in hospitals and health centres with which to stimulate bone marrow donation, with well-selected staff, as well as to use mobile blood donation equipment to obtain donors. Sixth, develop specific campaigns to promote the donation of umbilical cord and promote the conditions necessary for it to be possible to carry out it every day of the year at any time of the day. And, seventh, speed up the analysis of samples to reduce the current delay. [[The lady]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of these constructive proposals made by the People's Party, what are we meeting today? For a series of destructive political demonstrations against those autonomous communities governed by the People's Party, which have the best health standards in the subject we are dealing with. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, the current Government of Spain is already in a state of collapse, and it is no longer doing well. In health, we have had five ministers in four years, and they have not been able to exercise their powers properly. The Ministry suspends in the area of equity and in the incorporation of therapeutic innovations and new drugs, and has not prepared a human resources plan, as proposed in the Reconstruction Commission more than two years ago, nor has it expanded the supply of MIR places, as is its responsibility. [[Rumors]] As a result, there is a lack of health professionals, especially family doctors and pediatric specialists, in primary care, but, curiously, the fault lies with the autonomous communities governed by the PP; surprising and false conclusion that of the demonstrators. [[Applauds]] He ended up setting an example of how health is in real Spain, specifically in rural Spain, where I come from, in the province of Ciudad Real, in Castilla-La Mancha, a community governed by the PSOE. The municipalities of Cabezarrubias del Puerto, Mestanza, Hinojosas de Calatrava, Brazatortas, Almodóvar del Campo and Villamayor de Calatrava, of which I am its mayor, have been demonstrating for years: we want to have health care from Monday to Friday, that the retirements of doctors are covered, and that there are substitute doctors when the holder goes on vacation, is sick or leaves on guard. Is it much to ask in the 21st century? I don't think so. I conclude by saying that there is an urgent need for a change of government in Spain, and for this the first step will be taken within one hundred and three days, in the municipal and autonomous elections on 28 May. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. Callejas. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gorospe Elezcano has the floor in position-setting. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u104	Good afternoon, President, and thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs Vidal - there is Mrs Velarde who has also presented the no-law proposal - good afternoon. I am speaking on behalf of the Basque Group, and, first of all, I would like to say that we will of course support the initiative that brings to the debate today in this Chamber because when we read it we were clear that we had to defend as it were the possibility of making some positive intervention in order to be able to improve the life chances of each and every one of the patients suffering from cancer. In our opinion, the key is awareness, I think that's the key. You, in your proposal for a law, appeal to the values of international solidarity, to the values of commitment, and from our parliamentary group we believe that the key to all this would be that each and every young person in Euskadi, the Basque Country or the State in general, from all the States of the European Union, from all over the world... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u105	Wait a minute, Mrs. Gorospe. Just a moment, please. I would beg you to remain silent, please. Come in.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u106	Thank you, President. He said that each and every one of these young people who are willing and willing to turn eighteen, not just to take out their driver's license, but to discharge themselves in a register of organ and tissue donors. That would be a success in raising awareness. That is why it is important to focus on that need to expand the information, because although, as you said, there is information on the Internet, we have the guide of the Carreras Foundation, to which different spokespersons have referred, where it is said what needs to be done, who can be a donor, what are the characteristics, how can a donation be activated, how can they be registered, but what has to be very important, and we must insist on this, is that the health services of the different places establish as priority these programs of organ and tissue donation and transplantation, because if they set them as priority, allocating resources and carrying out information and awareness campaigns, they will fall into society and we will obtain data of success. I can tell you about the reality of Basque Country. You know that the World Health Organization sets an optimal rate of 40 donations per million inhabitants, and we have an average of more than fifty-five donations per million inhabitants. In 2022, more than 250 transplants were performed; in particular, in the reference hospital, in the Donostia Hospital, sixty-seven bone marrow transplants were performed. They are very important success facts, but we want that desire to exist, that link to those values that I was mentioning to them. Therefore, everything that is done to expand information, awareness and that benefits from the donation and we can save those lives, will count on our support. What we will ask those institutions to promote initiatives is that they do so from the highest possible level of respect for competition and from collaborative work between the institutions. But the key is to thank those people who in life decide to donate and also those families who, when they have not chosen in life, decide to donate the organs of their family members, as well as all those health and non-health professionals who have to intervene in the whole process, to do their utmost to ensure that this donation and transplantation process is done with due diligence. I hope that the initiative will succeed and that we will achieve good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gorospe. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u108	Thank you, President. A few years ago a friend invited me to read his doctoral thesis on altruism. It was a great thesis that argued that altruism is never really pure and that this did not diminish the importance or greatness of altruism. He defended, with a solid scientific basis, that there is always some benefit to him never, theoretically, selfless or altruistic. The benefit could be evolutionary - there is the selfish gene of Richard Dawkins - or it could be simply in the form of recognition. There were many examples of unpure altruism. I remember that in trying to prove the consistency of his thesis I raised a question to him that he was flabbergasting: the donors, the blood donors, the organ donors or, in this case, the spinal cord donors. They are that kind of pure altruists, this time yes, who give without knowing who and do so anonymously. We can affirm that the donor is the representative of pure altruism sought in this thesis, the representative of absolute generosity, the person who has the greatest commitment to life, to life in general, because he does not know where his life is going to end, the part of life that he is giving. He's committed to life in the face of death. The donor is committed to health against the disease. The donor breaks with entropy. The donor makes despair become hope and crying become a smile. The donor gives more Christmas together, more birthdays, children, meet the grandchildren. The Donor offers readings, meals, conversations, more walks, more sunrises. The donor is a bridge between the person and his family. And the donor is the alternative future to a destiny that, thanks to science and medicine, is less and less written. Knowing that there are donors gives hope to millions of people, tens of millions of families and friends of people who need a donation because they are sick. You know that politics is a sector in which one meets the worst and the best of the human condition. I found the best of politics in Joan Mesquida, a partner of ours who died too soon. In the last conversation I had with him I heard a hopeful man because they had found a spinal cord donor compatible with him. In fact, he died hopeful, waiting for that transplant, but he had hope to the end and smiled to the end, and we all know that it is not the same thing to die having hopes that without having any from the moment of diagnosis. And that transplant, which couldn't get to Joan Mesquida, would soon bring someone else to life. Knowing that donors are there comforts and gives hope to many sick people. There are also many sick people who with their attitude, courage and example save lives. Here is the example of Pablo Raez, always strong. But one of the problems that this GNP collects and that is the donation of the marrow is the misinformation, erroneous assertions about the process. No, it is not true that the bone marrow donor removes parts of the bone or spine. No, it's not true that a bone marrow donor is disabled for several days. No, it's not a very painful procedure. No, it's also not true that the donation is immediate from the moment you register as a donor. No, there's nothing wrong with donating with tattoos. No, it's not easy to get sick anymore when you've donated the marrow. These and other clichés, urban legends, and disinformation collected with regard to spinal cord donation do much harm. We do not know how many lives this misinformation costs, and that is why and for other issues we will, of course, support this GNP. Donation, moreover, is not only an antidote against physical ailments, it is also a great antibody against moral ailments. Donation is the rebuttal of nationalism, racism and xenophobia. Knowing that we are the same within, knowing that there are no genetic geographical proximity, knowing that the color of the skin does not make two human beings incompatible, knowing that in the case of blood what matters is the blood group and not the race, creed or postal code is a rebuttal to the great evils of the twentieth century that threaten to resurrect in the twenty-first century. Therefore, for life, for health, for generosity, but also for morals and for the equality of all, we will support all initiatives that, like this, promote donation and transplantation. Giving is giving life to those who lose it, and we have nothing greater or more irreplaceable than each of ourselves. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Díaz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor. [[Rumors]] I beg your silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Obviously the BNG will support this non-legislative proposal. We find it very necessary to combat misinformation, to have better information and to have extensive and effective social awareness campaigns. But we also understand that when it comes to caring for people's health, words must be accompanied by facts. That is why there needs to be more resources and better care for those who need it. We therefore hope that this non-legislative proposal will be better received than previous ones. You are part of the government, and we would like to see the rule in the State Official Gazette, but we think it is a good thing that this debate is opened and that this could be the first step before it becomes a rule. That concern comes to me that in previous cases it has not been so. I would like to recall - with this end in mind - that in February 2021 the BNG presented here a GNP approved by this Congress for the recognition of 33% of disability to people with multiple sclerosis and other degenerative diseases and nothing has yet been done. In March 2022 Citizens submitted a bill regarding the ALS and has not been able to be processed either. We therefore hope that this will progress more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u111	For the same group, Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u112	Thank you, President. The Democratic Party, the PeCAT, will vote in favour of the non-legislative proposal submitted by the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos. A bone marrow transplant in any of its modalities is today the only hope for many people suffering from blood-related diseases, such as leukemia, lymphoma or multiple myeloma, among others. According to The National Organization of Transplants, in the Spanish state the donations have multiplied by seven in a decade and in absolute figures we are in the seventh place at European level in registered bone marrow donors and in the number 14 of the world. However, in other areas, such as organ donation, the Spanish State has been a world leader for more than three decades. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u113	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u114	Therefore, we want to transfer this consideration, which already exists with organ donation, to bone marrow donation. In addition, different organizations also point to the need to incorporate more male donors to increase the effectiveness of the transplant. The female population remains a majority, accounting for 65 per cent. Finally, we want to thank all these entities, especially the Josep Carreras Foundation, which for so many years have been working tirelessly to make leukemia one day a cureable disease in all cases. We would also like to convey our appreciation to all those people who are already registered with a bone marrow donor registry and encourage potential future donors to register, as well as send a message of encouragement and strength to those people who are currently fighting these terrible diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u115	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, thirty years ago La Marató de TV3 was born, which has raised 240 million euros for research into different diseases, and the first million solidarity came just by campaigning against leukemia, at the hands of the Josep Carreras Foundation. The tenor had survived the disease and wanted to help others get it. Since then, 12,700 bone marrow transplants have been possible, because with that first million, the bone marrow donor registry was created so that patients who do not have a compatible donor in their family, and this is so in 70% of cases... [[rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u117	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u118	...have the opportunity to find a partner - if I am allowed the simile -, a donor who can save his life. There are more than 470,000 registered individuals to donate marrow, which is extracted from the pelvis, or to donate blood, from which stem cells are obtained and used in 80% of cases. Only one in four thousand donors can be the perfect couple for a leukemia patient. They say donating is giving without waiting for a prize, but go if you have it, to feel useful in something as important and special as giving life. To vote in favour of improving information campaigns, because only a quarter of the necessary donations are covered, which we particularly need from men, who represent only 36% of donors, when it turns out that men do it much better; in this you do it twice as well, because out of every ten actual donations in one transplant, seven are yours. So this is especially true for young altruists between the ages of 18 and 40 who want to live in any corner of the world, because a donation - and this is very important - does not bear the name and surname of the recipient. Listening to the case of a child in need of a transplant touches our heart and can boost hundreds of donations, and this is very good, but the most important thing is that they are then available. So altruism is better if it is accompanied by reflection, because everything has costs: classifying and characterizing a donor has them. And do you know how much the Ministry of Health contributes each year to its bone marrow transplant plan across the state? One million euros, less than what TV3 collected in 1992, thirty years ago, for leukemia at the hand of the Josep Carreras Foundation. Thank you, Josep. Friends forever.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Calvo. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u120	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Velarde, Mrs Vidal, congratulations on presenting this GNP. I have spoken to Mrs Vidal and she has told me that it is basically to get this debate out, because it is necessary to remember from time to time that there are diseases and elements that must go out to the lecture. In this sense, this GNP is of fundamental importance, because behind the donation of bone marrow - it has been commented here - there is a subject of misinformation, and often even stigmatization of the process itself. We all have in mind that it is an invasive process in the column itself and, on the other hand, there are currently mechanisms that do not necessarily do so; progress is being made in that direction. Therefore, there is a lot of awareness work, which perhaps is what you are asking for in this GNP, a work of awareness, of campaigns, which is really the basis, the most important thing. It is also important to insist on the coordination of the different current channels of information and registration. For example, we know that there are several social platforms that are working on awareness-raising.We also know, for example, that the Josep Carreras Foundation, apart from its own work on awareness-raising, has been centralizing the entire official donor registry since 1991. It should also be remembered that the autonomous communities, from their proximity, but also from their own health devices and other resources, also have the capacity to carry out promotional and outreach campaigns. He also wished to point out that each autonomous community had devices and mechanisms. For example, in Catalonia we have the Banc de Sang i Teixits, which is precisely responsible for ensuring the supply and proper use of blood and tissue donations, including bone marrow donations. I'm not going to get any longer. There is a lot of work, but we also have to work on information, break the misinformation and, above all, we have to coordinate the different devices and the people who work in this field. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. Mr Steegmann Olmedillas has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u122	Thank you, Madam President, on duty. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Vidal, you know I've always wished you the best. Forgive me for being rude and talking about myself. When I left La Princess Hospital, we had about 2,200 bone marrow transplants. I will always remember the day I told some parents, who were Japanese, that their child had acute leukemia. What does a doctor feel about saying this? The first thing he feels is compassion; yes, compassion, and that compassion moves us to what? To the knowledge. If, after seeing so much suffering, compassion did not lead us to knowledge, we could not have healed our patients, and there are hundreds, thousands of cured patients. But now we're not talking about feelings, I'm talking as a doctor and as a deputy, and as a deputy I want to make some corrections on your non-law proposal. Non-law propositions have to bring things, and they cannot bring them from misinformation. Look, bone marrow transplantation is not a simple procedure, and it is well known to all patients who have received an allogeneic bone marrow transplant. It is the most complicated drug transplant, because a living organ is transplanted, immunologically alive, and that is why leukemia is cured. Nor can we deceive potential donors by saying that the procedure for collecting progenitor cells is simple and has no complications, as you say. There is no sadder and more terrible thing for a patient who knows that there is a donor who then the donor backs off. When I read this non-law proposal I said to myself: seeing the trajectory of Podemos with the laws, they are also able to spoil the brilliant history that Spain has through the National Organization of Transplants. [[Applauds]] Yeah. Do you know how to prove that you love patients? Giving resources to the National Transplant Organization and not freezing its budget. Do you know how it turns out that you care about patients? Knowing that ONT has the task of coordination and domination in the world of transplantation. And you know how we should do that? We must indeed improve information and combat misinformation, but we cannot hide that this has been a success story: we cannot hide that, at the time of the epidemic, we were the fifth country in bone marrow donations; we cannot hide that we are the first in allogeneic transplants; we cannot hide that since 2012 donations have quadrupled; we cannot hide that since 2012 we have gone from 4% to 24% of unconnected Spanish donors. But it is true, Mrs Vidal, that we cannot hide that we must improve and that at the moment there are only 24% of Spaniards and 37% of Germans with regard to unconnected donors. How do we have to improve it? First, not misreporting, knowing that ONT has a central role, knowing that we have to empower it and knowing - you are in the government - that you would have to increase your resources; supporting, indeed, all the health care providers that make it possible for those patients who suffer so much and those we had to give that bad news; knowing that we work well and not only with feelings, but with knowledge, so that they can be cured, because it is what we doctors work in hospitals, and here as parliamentarians...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u123	You have to finish, Mr. Steegmann.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u124	...doing things right, Mrs. Vidal. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause of the honourable Members and Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u125	For the Socialist Group, Mrs Andrés Añón has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u126	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. [[The Lord]] On behalf of my Socialist Group, allow me to start my speech with a firm and strong statement in favour of public health, universal and free of charge. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, stop, stop. Enough cuts in Madrid, Andalusia, before and now. [[protests]] [[A Member of the European Parliament: Bravo!]] Stop cutting their responsibility, too, because they do not deceive anyone, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, nor the former professionals who were, were and lived it, nor those now, who are and live it now; nor the patients, who suffered before, because they were, nor the patients who suffer now. Look, his abandonment of the public was such that he came to the fight against cancer. In all years of their stages of government, at all levels, they only updated the National Cancer Strategy in 2014, a strategy they received updated in 2010. [[Protests Continue]] But, of course, what were you going to update when you had cut more than €38 billion in healthcare spending? [[Protests Continue]] Look, only in health research, fundamental for the early detection of treatment and cure of diseases, practiced a historical cut at the Carlos III Research Institute, public institute, and left it virtually without resources. [[Protests Continue]] In front of it, the coalition government: update of the national cancer strategy in 2021; 100 million euros for genetic and genomic medicine; the largest investment in high technology in our country's history, the INVEAT Plan, with 795 million euros; 1.5 million public investment - I repeat: public - for the state-of-the-art health PERT, and 280 million for ten proton therapy teams, in collaboration with the Amancio Ortega Foundation. They are investments that directly impact on the fight against cancer, such as the 1 billion for primary care, which is the gateway for everyone to public health. [[Applauds]] This is what the socialists and the socialists do, and we do it out of conviction, because health is a right of all, without exclusion. It is equity, it is solidarity, like that of the 474,000 bone marrow donors of the official registry that created and manages the Josep Carreras Foundation, which is the official registry of Spain, a registry that has to grow with truthful information campaigns, like that of 'One match x one life', in order to get a compatible donor for each patient who needs transplantation, because 70% of the registered donors, as has been said, are women and men aged 18 to 40 are needed. Because the cause to defend is life, as José Manuel Navarro testified today, who accompanies us in the rostrum, comrade, or as Javier Martín, a Basque of Barakaldo, who was diagnosed with leukemia when he was 45 years old and a daughter of 8. His donor was a 24-year-old. Javier tells us: I think the best word that describes what it feels like to be donated to you is the opportunity to see your daughter grow, to taste every pot with your friends, the opportunity to keep doing the simplest things in life, nothing to climb to Everest, and you feel the greatest gratitude towards a person you don't know and who, without knowing you at all, gives you life; I will always be eternally grateful to him. Thank you for your testimonies, José and Javier, and thank you to María Guijarro, who has provided us with this testimony, because it fills us with hope and encourages us to continue working for quality, universal and free public health. [[applause]] [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u127	Thank you very much. Mrs Vidal Sáez, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u128	This initiative was not for campaigning, it is publicising, so we are not going to accept the amendments and we ask that they be voted on in their terms.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u129	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u130	We then proceed to discuss the motion resulting from an urgent inquiry by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Mazón Ramos, on the Government's criteria for intensive and extensive livestock farming and, in particular, the problem of the elimination of purines. For the author group of the initiative, and for the defence of the motion, Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u131	Thank you very much and good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, after hearing Minister Planas at last week's inquiry into the criteria of the Government of Spain in relation to extensive livestock and purines, we have tabled this motion, which consists of three points. First point. That the Government affirm its commitment to defending the livestock sector and include it in all kinds of public aid related to the agricultural sector, without any discrimination, so that what happened with the Royal Decree Law 20/2022 is not repeated, because in that case mountain pastures could not benefit from aid for fertilizers, which they also use, less than elsewhere, but not as a means of excluding them. Second point. That the Government clarify the provisions of article 27.3 of the Law on Contaminated Waste and Soils for a Circular Economy, in order to avoid different discrepancies and interpretations between the various ministerial bodies and the autonomous bodies themselves when implementing it. Thirdly, the amendment to the Decree establishing rules for sustainable nutrition in agricultural soils, concerning the prohibition of certain practices in the management of manure and purines, and the administrative requirements for their management. This places a greater economic burden on the already very affected livestock sector, in addition to being inefficient in the case of mountain pastures, in particular in the areas of the Cantabrian mountain range. I think the first point is obvious and I don't think I need an explanation. With regard to the second, with regard to Law 7/2022, it appears that an interpretative note from the Ministry of Ecological Transition differentiates small farms and micro-farms according to whether they are in forestry or agrarian environments, but the law makes no distinction of this kind and excludes them from any prohibition of the burning of creeps, without, of course, prejudice to the rules of fire prevention. In addition to the extra limit that this interpretation has, it is necessary to explain how difficult it is to differentiate in mountain areas an agricultural environment from a forest or forest and where there are many small farms. That is why we defend what was approved by an amendment in the Senate and what this Congress approved: it is neither prohibited nor requires authorization. As regards the third point, the decree, it must be said that, despite the allegations made in the proceedings, the definitive wording has not taken into account very much the determining circumstances, such as the climatic, orographic, model of family exploitation or of the structure of the minifundist property, and, more importantly, it has not taken into account the system of exploitation and exploitation of the territory, being particularly affected the holdings of the Cantabrian Corn. The result is that the requirements of this regulation are in some cases impossible to comply with, add more expenditure to the already high production costs of our livestock farms and therefore lead to their abandonment. We propose two small adjustments to support extensive farms without reducing expectations of meeting environmental objectives. Spain has already fulfilled with Europe the publication of the decree, and our proposal does not remove weight from this decree, but rather improves it. We already have legal tools to characterize cattle farms, with a clear framework to define what is extensive exploitation that did not exist during the early stages of the drafting of the decree. Extensive livestock farming is characterized by a high use of grass for feeding livestock, because in the grass the urine of the cattle quickly infiltrates the earth, avoiding contact with the air and losses of ammonia. In addition, urine is not usually mixed with faeces, which is where the urease enzyme is found, responsible for catalysing the hydrolysis of urea or carbon dioxide and ammonia. It does not contribute to soil contamination. In fact, increasing the time spent by animals is considered a Category 1 strategy to reduce ammonia emissions by the executive body for the Convention on Long-range Transboundary Air Pollution, but neither the national air pollution control programme nor the decree value this. On the contrary, it penalizes extensive livestock farming, by equalizing in obligations to the shepherd, who with his livestock does almost heroic work and in danger of extinction in the mountains and cantabrian meadows, favoring biodiversity and avoiding the accumulation of shrub vegetation, which is the main fuel of forest fires, and to the largest intensive holdings of pig livestock, by citing the type of livestock that contributes most at the state level to ammonia emissions. You can't put everything in the same bag. We propose to exempt the elaboration and application of a plan of subscription to extensive livestock farms, because it is an incongruity to exempt those farms of less than 10 hectares, with little territorial basis, but with large livestock loads, important for the territory, and not to take into account, however, the environmental benefits of extensive farms with little livestock load, on areas of much larger size. This exemption would also save decisive costs, such as the hiring of an advisor to draw up the subscription plan and the mandatory soil analysis. [[The lady]] Secondly, although the orographic difficulties were taken into account - something was taken into account for the application of purines, and exceptions were found in the application of purines in dish or fan systems - the use was allowed in dependent enclosures above 10%, but the rule required mitigation measures. The seven measures in Annex 5 are either inadequate or inapplicable for the practice of this. We therefore also propose the exemption of this obligation from measures to livestock holdings. And in order to eliminate reticence, we will agree to include the exemption in one of the amendments, provided that the application of solid manure or purines is limited to livestock farming itself. We are practical and realistic, and I therefore look forward to your support in approving this motion and for the Government to act accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. In defence of the amendments put forward by your groups, Mr Chamorro Delmo is speaking first of all by the VOX Group. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. This parliamentary group is a strong supporter of livestock farming in all its forms, and defends it in a strong way as a productive model of rural areas that roots people, creates wealth and has an undoubted social dimension in our peoples. We are not going to enter into the play of words that try to demonize some livestock models or that demonize the farms by their number of heads. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u134	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u135	We leave that to the enemies of the Spanish agri-food sector who are embedded in this government and who attack the consumption of meat or livestock products, such as cheese or milk, and, in general, they fight against our Mediterranean diet and our gastronomic identity. [[Applauds]] This is the case of the Minister of Consumer Affairs of this government of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Spanish farmers do a fundamental job by feeding the Spaniards and the rest of the world with products of supreme quality. For this reason, not only do we not have a problem in supporting a motion that seeks to include livestock farming, both extensive and intensive, in all kinds of public aid related to the agricultural sector, but we would also like to extend that recognition with a proper defence of the Spanish agricultural sector that ensures food sovereignty and whose objective is to protect the Spaniards, the farmers, meet their needs and give the next generations a horizon of freedom, equality, prosperity, justice and respect for our values, traditions and the agricultural sector. With regard to the prohibition - which they have also commented on in this motion - of the burning of plant waste generated by the agrarian environment, we have already shown the lack of awareness of the legislator, from our point of view, of the agrarian reality of Spain. Exceptions to this prohibition are set out in the law, but they remain at the free and full discretion of the autonomous administrations. We continue to think that this issue of agricultural waste is a disparate one and that, as was unanimously adopted in the Committee on Agriculture, this ban should be removed from the rule, so that the agricultural sector will not be subjected again to the arbitrariness of autonomous rules. [[Applauds]] We agree with all that which extricates extensive livestock holdings from the development of environmentalist demands without any meaning. All that is to remove obstacles to the livestock sector will be supported by this parliamentary group, a sector that suffers from uncontrolled production costs, environmental barriers, wolf attacks and attacks by this destructive nihilism that attacks meat and livestock products. We want to remember here, in this plenary session, the sheep and goat farmers who suffer from the threat of smallpox, a disease that was eradicated fifty years ago and which now reappears, causing panic in regions such as Castilla-La Mancha, where the whole health system of prevention of Emiliano García-Page has failed. We demand the necessary financial aid from farmers and all the administrative and health efforts to end this disease and to cushion the economic damage that will be caused to the livestock sector in Castile-La Mancha. [[Applauds]] Since VOX, we explicitly support farmers throughout Spain and reject the contents of that 2030 Agenda, which are contrary to the interests of Spanish farmers. We reject animal laws, which give more animal rights than people, and we defend our products as an agri-food heritage that is part of our identity. We are not going to allow our livestock to be swept away by globalist agendas, which want the Spaniards to feed on grasshoppers, the whim of a handful of billionaires and a troop of subsidized progressive politicians, who applaud as seals while ruining our livestock and our agriculture. Only with VOX is there hope for our national primary sector. Thank you very much. [[Prolonged applause by the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, on the ground]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u136	For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Castillo López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u137	Thank you, President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Mazón, in Cantabria we are stuck in a dead end tunnel and, once again, you are going through the hills of Úbeda and do not use this opportunity, this important opportunity for Cantabria, to demand from the government a decided, total and non-cracked bet for the livestock sector. [[Applauds]] This government harms and threatens with its policies a key sector for Cantabria and Spain. We told his chief of staff, we told Mr.Revilla: We have to choose the travelling companions well. You do not choose or measure well the consequences of becoming supporters of a drifting government, with the ideological impositions of some and the desire to keep the chair of others, harming Cantabria and Spain. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u138	One second, Mrs. Castillo. The tone is getting higher and it is impossible to understand what the person who is in the rostrum is saying, really, impossible. Any time.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u139	That is why we have amended this motion with eight points that we consider to be key to the future of the sector. Mr Mazón, as long as you swallow frogs and snakes, such as, for example, the measures of overprotection of the wolf in Spain, the People's Party calls on this government to reverse this measure, a measure that involves more wolves and less livestock in Cantabria. [[Applauds]] While you are asking for an interpretation of the burning of waste, this article 27.3 of Law 7/2022, of contaminated waste and soil for a circular economy, the People's Party is asking for its disposal. [[The lady]] We want to maintain the parameters of authorization and control prior to this law and, in addition, we ask the Government for a moratorium on the entry into force of Title 7 of Law 7/2022, as well as the suspension of the application of this tax until 1 January 2024. The People's Party defends a sustainable and modern livestock farm, while at the same time competitive, because it is not incompatible. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u140	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u141	We therefore urge the Government to implement a national plan for sustainable livestock farming, including measures such as modernization of farms and areas for slaughter and processing, more sustainable feeding systems, implementation of mechanisms to reduce the carbon footprint and implementation of energy and fertilizer recovery systems that include the generation of biogas or biomethane and organic fertilizers - such as, for example, what happens in existing purin treatment plants, with cogeneration, extendable to agricultural by-products, agricultural waste and cow and poultry disposals, among others - ultimately strengthening the circular economy throughout the livestock-carnic chain. [[Applauds]] The People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, proposes real solutions to real problems. The People's Party wants well-sized livestock farms and, more importantly, to maintain and generate employment in rural areas. We cannot, Mr Mazón, endorse those who demonise a sector, such as the livestock sector; as an example, Minister Garzón, who every time he goes out to talk, lower meat exports by 25%, basically because he throws down the quality of our products. Farmers have been crying in the desert for two years because they are in a critical situation. Let us commit ourselves to the livestock sector and include thighs in all the aids in which they can be accommodated. Let us launch a 35 % bonus for the feed bill, which has cost more than 50 %, which has led to an increase in the cost of production and, therefore, in the prices of basic products to the consumer. If we have increased our spending and the Government is paying more for it, then it is logical that this sacrifice should be distributed on both sides and that the Government should take advantage of the farmers, ladies and gentlemen, just like all of us, because solutions must be put in place and the threats to the sector must be combated. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u143	Leave exempt contributions to the small extra subsidies given to farmers as a result of this situation that they are experiencing. Extend the reduction of VAT to meat, already requested by our president, and bet on a master plan of the different public administrations to put in value and make the most of the biomass resources of Spain, but in a coordinated way with all the sectors involved and giving priority to the cleaning and efficient management of our forests and our mountains. [[applause]] Mr. Mazón - and it is over - be humble and recognize once and for all that for the government of Sánchez and his allies Cantabria does not exist, and when our land takes the lead it is to make the ridiculous at national level, as with the trains that do not enter the tunnels. [[Applauds]] Strong and uncracked support for the rural environment. The contempt and verbal and legislative mistreatment to which the Sánchez government is subjecting our livestock sector demands our positioning alongside the primary sector, alongside our livestock. We hope that you will accept one of the eight amendments that we have tabled to you. Thank you so much. [[Applause.- Various Members: Very well!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Castillo. For the Socialist Group, Mr Sancho Íñiguez has the floor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mazón, I would like to begin my speech with the recognition of farmers and farmers. As you know, I, as well as a politician, am a farmer and a farmer, and as a farmer I tell you that we are the most interested in a law of manure management, purines or femo, as it is said in my land. We're conscious and we get involved because we know what we're playing. We are the greatest advocates of sustainable production. Our animals, the natural environment are our life. Mr. Mazón, the motion you put forward speaks of intensive, extensive livestock farming and, in particular, the problem of the elimination of purines. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, I do not know whether your amendments have much to do with this motion. As I told you yesterday, I am holding my hand to discuss these issues, which are important for the general benefit. [[Applauds]] A good manure and purin management law, such as this government decree or some autonomous law to which I shall then refer, benefits society in general, but particularly the primary sector. We must make manure, purin not a residue, but an opportunity, an organic nutrient, a fertilizer. We are on the way to a new model of agriculture and livestock. That is why purin and manure as fertilizers become essential. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u146	Wait a minute, Mr. Sancho. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to hear the speaker. Until there is no silence, the time will not continue. [[Pause]] Go ahead, Mr. Sancho.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u147	In my community, Aragón, in the 2015 legislature, we were pioneers in addressing the need to implement a law on purine management and manure management. In principle, it cost them to understand. It was a change that no one would understand today that was not done. We needed and need a strong and protected primary sector. Let us not forget that we are an exporting country, with a great potential for meat exports. Neither then could we, nor can we, today, be allowed to close our borders as a result of producing meat without health or environmental guarantees. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen of the right, we need the health and environmental guarantee. This is what farmers and farmers want, to produce safely and to feel protected. This is what the Government of Aragon did in the 2015 legislature and what this decree of the Government of Spain now seeks. Mr. Mazón, we must not seek respite from this decree, because it can cause more problems than the insignificant benefits. From the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan we have transferred to the autonomous communities 103 million euros to improve the management of purines and manure, a quantity to which must be added the aid of the Renove for the renovation of machinery, for the applicators. It is about knowing the state of our lands, applying the necessary nutrients in a sustainable way. In short, it is about doing what our ancestors were doing and that in the twenty-first century we have baptized as a circular economy. Mrs. Marcos, I think you were a counselor at Castile and Leon. He did as the PP does, washing his hands and looking away; avoiding any small conflict even knowing that, in doing so, it hurt people. [[Applauds]] I don't want to stop talking about extensive and intensive livestock farming. Extensive livestock farming is a priority for both me and the Socialist Group. We've done and we're going to do whatever it takes to support and stop your recession. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u148	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u149	With the new CAP we have increased production aid by more than 11%; in beef, Mr Mazón, by 30%. Intensive livestock farming, in which we believe, is essential to produce food sustainably, in compliance with food health guarantees. We need to produce food. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not confuse intensive livestock with industrial livestock. We're talking about living beings, animal welfare. We support extensive and intensive livestock farming and, therefore, livestock farmers, fulfilling the European Union's health commitments to environmental sustainability and animal welfare. Ladies and gentlemen, I end up remembering a few things. I heard something about the wolf here. I only ask the People's Party - now ruling with VOX in Castile and León - to pay for the damage that farmers in Castile and León have suffered from the wolf. [[Applauds]] The farmers of the European Peaks owe three years. Put your hands to the work and pay those farmers. They fulfill as Asturias fulfills, as Aragon fulfills, and as other communities fulfill, helping to protect themselves from the wolf and helping to protect farmers. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. We put the general good before the immediate election revenue. We do what we must, although then those who do not support it often take it and deny it, specialty of the right. Thank you, President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Sancho. Mr Agirretxea Urresti is speaking on a position-setting basis by the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Before I get to the point, I'd like to... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u152	Quiet once more, please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u153	I find the show we're giving this afternoon rather bumpy. If we're like this today, how we'll be in May. It doesn't matter whether you talk about purines or you talk about bone marrow, it doesn't matter; here you come and you do the rally and everyone goes to their own. We're talking about grasshoppers, wolves, whatever. By the way, it doesn't have to be anything negative. Today innovation is above all that, and if the grasshopper industry can generate wealth and profit, it can be part of it without discarding anything we have. Or is it bad Spaniards eating grasshoppers? In any case, we agree with both the diagnosis and the proposal made by Mr. Mazón in his motion. In Euskadi we have a reality quite similar to that of Cantabria, and both on the subject of solid purines or manures and on the subject of the burning of plant remains we agree, as I said, both in the diagnosis he makes and in the proposals he makes to us. The reality of extensive livestock farming is quite complex in itself. It is a reality that has a problematic situation at the moment, without generational relief, which is a problem that is affecting a great deal; with a problem derived from milk prices, which is making people even abandon the farms, and with an alternative - it seems that the only one that exists before all these problems that is having extensive grazing of mountain pastures - in the strict and hard intensive. We believe that some of us have to keep defending the layer and the sword this kind of livestock that has little or nothing to do with the other. In any case, entering into Mr. Mazón's two main approaches, on the subject of burns, we would have liked the approach that was made here in Congress, and the text that came to the Senate would have remained as it was, but we accepted the approach that was made in the Senate because we believed it could be beneficial. However, we are not going to allow there to be any truths or to be an interpretative trap, that is, we are not going to allow the goodwill of those who support that amendment in the Senate to be used, because we were told that it was improved, guaranteed, ensured, so that the appropriate ministry now makes an interpretation contrary to the spirit of those who support that amendment. Therefore, make it clear that if such an interpretation is made, we will look for mechanisms to return to the previous situation. And in that, I demand the responsibility of the Socialist Party to assume that which was approved here and which was then approved in the Senate. It is necessary, without doubt, that we all control the subject of burns. It cannot be done as everyone wants, but, careful, because it is also necessary to have the freedom to be able to carry out that activity that is not to contaminate. In the case of the Rioja alavesa, for example, with the vegetable remains of the prunes, it is fundamental, because, if not, they are dusted. On the subject of purines there is little to say. We agree with Mr Mazón's approach because - he has explained it well and I am not going to expand - this production system hardly uses mineral fertilization, because it is not necessary, the amount of organic matter accumulated in pits or manure is small, and the diffuse management of organic matter linked to grazing, which is where the greatest amount of organic matter is produced, is of low contaminating level. It is therefore appropriate to consider, within the derogation, making a payment plan for those farms which are considered to be extended, irrespective of their size, and under the same conditions, to be exempted from the emission mitigation measures, as their own farm system makes them unnecessary. We will therefore support Mr Mazón's proposal, and we agree with both spirit and form. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Agirretxea. Mrs Martínez Granados has the floor for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u155	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, you may no longer remember, but more or less a year ago we were talking in this House about the government's attacks on the Spanish livestock sector, and today we are doing it again. A situation that led the most important associations in the sector such as ASAJA or UPA to request resignations from ministers. It was a minister, the Minister of Consumer Affairs, Mr Garzón, who, with his statements, seriously damaged the international reputation of Spanish livestock, which depends to a large extent on the export of products whose quality is recognized at global level. He attacked livestock as a means of fixing employment and population in the unpopulated areas of Spain. He assumed that the meat produced was of poor quality and that the animals were abused in the farms; statements that should have cost him the job if he had dignity or if Mr Sánchez was a president, as he should be, because, contrary to what the minister said in the international press, the Spanish livestock industry contributes to the maintenance of the rural landscapes, to the fixing of its population to the territory, to the creation of jobs in them, to the potential exporter of Spain, to food security and to the fight against climate change. Instead of issuing such criticisms abroad, the Government should work actively and give more means to the ecological transition of the livestock sector, but that is too much to ask. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u156	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u157	From Citizens we believe that a real concern for animal welfare, depopulation and employment in rural areas and the economic and ecological sustainability of livestock farming is incompatible with these declarations, and we also believe that this Government needs to bring here much more ambitious proposals and a better provision of means and protection to that sector, a proposal that we have put forward and that the Government has devoted itself to ignoring it directly and seeing it again and again. We believe that greater investment in R & D+i, better regulation of employment, greater flexibility in the procurement of electricity should be included in order to be able to cope better with the escalation in light prices and many other initiatives that we believe would have strengthened the sector and not point out how this government has done during this legislature. We now see that the Government has passed a royal decree for the management of cattle farms, which includes a ban on the installation of new bovine macro-farms of more than 850 livestock units. According to them, this is a bet decided by a family livestock model, but the farmers do not agree with that because they are not really able to listen to the farmers. They say that the norm does quite the opposite: it helps to intensify the sector and leaves aside precisely the family model, despite the fact that ecologists beat each other in the chest for the prohibition of micro-granches. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u158	Wait a minute, Mrs. Martinez. Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is the tenth time I've been silent with you. We are taking this whole debate with a murmur that makes it impossible to hear the speaker. I ask you - about twenty minutes from the plenary - please, ladies and gentlemen, to remain silent. Go ahead, Mrs. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u159	Thank you, President. From Citizens we consider it an error to neglect extensive livestock farming or to put additional obstacles on it. It is the model that best combines family tradition and food excellence with the sustainability of a model that, in addition to bringing much better conditions for livestock, contributes to mountain care. Let us remember that the larger an extensive exploitation, the more ammonia emissions it saves, which is precisely what we all pursue. The spread of purines in the extensive model allows the soil to absorb naturally. Moreover, it is the model that best takes care of the mountain because it involves a cleaning of the countryside and a removal of pastures facing the summer, which is, together with the agricultural burning - that our parliamentary group managed with a transactional once again to allow, after the imposition of the Ministry of Ecological Transition - the best insurance against fires that takes place in our territory, in our country. We must not settle this issue without mentioning the serious risk posed by the recent outbreaks of sheeppox in our country. In communities such as Castilla-La Mancha, it has been decreed the immobilization of all sheep and goats in multiple provinces, three and a half million heads who can only leave the farms to go to the slaughterhouse. A decision motivated by the outbreak of a new disease eradicated in Spain and from which so far seven outbreaks have been detected in the region, the last of them in a cebadero de Alcázar de San Juan. Farmers have an urgent need for the Government to present an aid plan in this respect, and in the meantime, we, from Citizens, will support this motion to try to help the sector as far as possible. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u160	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martínez. The Plural Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, Royal Decree 1051/2022, despite modifications in relation to the initial text, did not take into account issues such as the orographic characteristics, the edaphological, structural characteristics of the property, model of exploitation or exploitation of the territory, at least in the case of Galicia, so says the rapporteur, also in the case of Cantabria, and certainly in other territories. Consequently, heavy conditions are imposed for the fertilization of land, if not in cases impossible to comply with, and small and medium-sized cattle farms are punished, especially in an extensive manner, in order to try to address a problem that is actually generated primarily by micro-farms and particularly by pig farms. The cause, in the view of the BNG, lies in the arrogant centralization that we have been suffering and to which unfortunately we are also accustomed by this Government, which is said to be progressive. In short, it is in the process of legislating from Madrid with uniform criteria for very different realities and many times since the lack of knowledge, which is the worst. But the consequences are paid by our farmers and farmers. Therefore, when the BNG talks about the need to have a real capacity to decide or to have sovereignty, we are talking precisely about this, to adapt the rules to our reality and to our interests as peoples. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u162	Silence, again, I ask you, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u163	The second issue has to do with the burning of agricultural waste, which after the initial approval of the Waste Law, which was amended through the CAP law in this Congress, deleting the article, returned from the Senate with a wording that seemed clear, but which in the end is interpretive and therefore certainly confusing. Why? Because here too, equal demands are laid down for very different realities and situations. Large agricultural or forestry producers and managers can cope with the investment that these rules entail, the medium, more difficult and certain, small and micro-farms will not be able to do so. But the rule also leaves out the management of pruning waste, small rural plots whose owners are not officially farmers and farmers. That is why we believe that autonomous competences should be respected and that the interpretation of these rules should be clarified, in addition to other actions that the public administration could put in place to facilitate the management of these waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego Candaimil. For the same group, Mrs Cañadell Salvia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u165	Thank you, President. [[The lady]] Protection of the agricultural and agricultural sectors provided that they represent and contribute to the territory to which I represent. With regard to the second point of the motion resulting from the inquiry into clarification and interpretation of article 27.3 of Law 7/2022 of 8 April on Contaminated Waste and Soils, I believe that if the final text of the law had been adopted in the Committee on Agriculture, this confusion in the interpretation between ministries would not arise. It is true that the Democratic Party, when the amendment proposed and approved in the Senate came, we voted in favour, but we are in line with what has been said before, that with the burning of agricultural waste we will not give in. On the other hand, with regard to point 3 of the motion following an inquiry, it must be said that, first of all, because of its relevance, it would have been appropriate for the basic points on the regulation of sustainable nutrition in agricultural soils to be made through a law so that parliamentary groups could have the capacity to influence them. The Contaminated Waste and Soils Act would have been a good opportunity, if not because the bill itself left it out in its area of regulation. One of the objectives of Royal Decree 1051/2022 of 27 December, establishing standards for sustainable nutrition in agricultural soils, is the improvement of biodiversity linked to agricultural soils. It should be borne in mind that extensive livestock farming plays a very important role in biodiversity by maintaining the mosaic formed by forests and meadows, as well as the habitat of numerous species. The disappearance of extensive livestock farming in many places on the peninsula in recent decades has been against biodiversity. The extensive livestock holdings most adversely affected by all the requirements imposed by the Royal Decree are small and micro-farms with fewer resources. In the motion resulting from interpellation the exemption is for all extensive livestock farms regardless of their size, but in our view the size, in this case, matters. Let's see what the final text of the motion looks like. We shall see what amendments they contain in order to be able to make the point of our vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u166	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cañadell. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Eritja Ciuro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u167	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, be assured that our group really is committed to the circular economy model and instead of seeing waste as a problem, we often see an opportunity, a resource. It is a profound change in the traditional production model, where waste or the rest of agriculture is not necessarily perceived as an environmental problem, but today we know that purines and fertilizers in this sense have a great impact on the environment, affect water levels, or even biodiversity itself. Obviously, this change in model is transforming and changing traditional production systems in the agricultural field and, of course, this is not done without difficulties or resistance in its implementation. One example is the management of plant waste, everything that corresponds to the subject of pruning and grubbing up, what to do with these plant waste. The proposal for a waste law introduced the implementation of models... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u169	The proposal of the Waste Law introduced the introduction of the circular economy model in the management of plant waste, in the pruning, specifically, for use in its products as fertilizer pellets. However - that is important to say - the incorporation of these management processes means, for the smaller links in the food chain, and therefore for the small producers, an over-effort; an over-effort that in many cases resulted in an increase in expenditure that put at risk the very viability of small and medium-sized farms. That is why we must also take account of an increase in production costs in the context of a crisis which is particularly acutely affecting the agricultural sector. That is why our group was very clear and has worked proactively, precisely in Congress and in the Senate, to lift the ban on burning the remains of vegetable pruning, precisely to the small and medium-sized farms, which were really affected, and this is again and continues to be our intention. Now, with the co-management of the purines, we are once again considering another exceptionality. The issue of livestock farming and, above all, the management of purines and manure is important, since they are really an environmental problem. However, we do agree with the differences between intensive and extensive livestock farming. I am not going to go into the demagogy of confronting the two models, as is usually done in Congress and in other areas. Extensive Livestock is a more sustainable model with the environment itself, since the impact on the environment is much smaller, and often responds to a model of greater family roots, of small scale and therefore a model of social sustainability, to say the least. It is true that some of the traditional practices of intensive livestock farming should not be penalized at the same level as intensive livestock farming, as they have a different level of contamination. It is also true that intensive livestock farming does not have the same resources and support as intensive livestock farming. But we must also not forget that there is a very competitive intensive industrial livestock industry, but that it creates real management problems, precisely with the subject of purines and with a great environmental impact. Precisely, from the area where I come from, in that area of Lleida, there is a high intensive production and a high density of intensive production of pigs, both in Lleida and in Aragon. I believe that the problem of the management of purines, manure, is a real problem in our territory. An example of a precisely circular economy bet, which I think is where it should go. Specifically, in Alcarràs, which is precisely the area with the most pig farms per square metre in Europe, an agrarian community recently formed by 150 families that have formed themselves as an energy community, Comunitat Energètica Bioproducts SAT, taking advantage of the purines and livestock waste. What's your uniqueness? It is an energy community and responds precisely to a model of social economy and not a business. That's fundamental to us. At first they set up a composting plant for the residues of cows' farms and purine solids, but now they have wanted to go further and have created what would be a new biogas plant, which also generates fertilizers and water to water. In both cases, in intensive livestock farming and extensive farming, the management of purines and organic waste generates alarm and cannot be taken lightly by the great environmental impact they generate. In that regard, we believe that strict, perhaps modulated, regulation is necessary, taking into account singularities but strict. I insist, the European Union's guidelines are also very clear in favour of a profound shift towards a model of sustainable production based on the circular economy. The regulation of the CAP itself points in that direction, and therefore we cannot dispense with it. We must seek precisely the balance between the viability and sustainability of agricultural exploitation, incorporating the circular economy model. It's a fragile balance, it's a conflict balance right now. But we must ensure in this balance precisely a double sustainability: environmental sustainability, on the one hand, and economic and social sustainability, on the other.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u170	Mr. Eritja, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u171	Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Eritja. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the opposite: when someone is speaking, it is when they have to be silent. [[Laughter]] It's not about everyone shut up at the same time. [[Applauds]] Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u173	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Mr Mazón brings to the debate a motion that puts on the table what we believe is the dynamic, the fundamental model for the future of our agri-food sector, as is the model of extensive livestock farming. I believe that in recent decades reports, studies and, ultimately, different researches have been developed that directly relate the benefits of extensive livestock farming to biodiversity and environmental quality, thus demonstrating the importance of this activity for the maintenance of certain ecosystems that give great value to our soils and to our nature. Moreover, the gradual abandonment of this activity, which is largely due to the pressure of the intensive model and, therefore, of the agro-industry model, has negative effects at the ecological, environmental, health, property and socio-economic levels. The extensive model, as you know, in addition to generating healthy and high-quality food products, contributes to the growth of organic matter, to the conservation of plant cover and soils and, therefore, reduces the likelihood, frequency and intensity of forest fires; it also promotes biodiversity and the maintenance of ecosystem balance and, ultimately, helps to fix the economy and population in a fabric as important as that of our rural world. Unfortunately, the predominant model in recent decades has been another, which is that of intensive livestock farming, driven, as I said, by the agri-food industry and supported in many cases - in our opinion, erroneously - by international agencies and administrations, also in our country. The model of industrial livestock is unsustainable in the economic, also in the social, because it destroys more employment than it generates and extracts income from rural areas and, in addition, increases the health risk. Finally, it is environmentally unsustainable due to its greenhouse gas emissions and deforestation for fodder crops, which drive climate change and land desertification. The intensive model in agriculture and livestock brings us, in addition, a contamination of soils that lose their fertility and of water masses that lose potability, as you well know, in many areas of our rural world. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ecological Transition have implemented different rules that seek to alleviate these environmental problems, such as Law 7/2022, Royal Decree 1051/2022 of the Standards for the Sustainable Nutrition of Agricultural Soils, or Royal Decree 47/2022 on the Protection of Water from Diffuse Pollution Produced by Nitrates. This progress has been made, and it must be recognised, in particular, as a follow-up to the mandatory transposition of various European rules. There has also been some progress in the new CAP green payments, in forms of potentially beneficial agricultural practices, the so-called Eco-regimes, where more attention is finally paid to extensive livestock farming. On the part of our parliamentary group, however, we believe that the measures implemented are still scarce and that we need to go further. It is necessary to distinguish clearly the implementing rules for those activities that contribute to the conservation of ecosystems and biodiversity, such as extensive livestock farming, from industrial practices that have a negative environmental impact. The same regulatory and economic burden should not be applied to each other. As we used to say: who pollutes, pays. The increase in economic resources available to support more sustainable activities is essential. The appropriations set out are still insufficient and the calculation of CAP aid still favours intensive practices over those that the largest environmental services provide. In short, extensive livestock farming should be considered, in our view, as a strategic sector because of its multiple contributions in ecosystem, environmental, social, cultural and economic matters, which are not remunerated by market prices and therefore require substantial public support once and for all. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Gómez-Reino. Mr Mazón, do you accept any of the amendments tabled?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u175	We're talking to see if we can reach an agreement with some group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u176	All right, thank you very much. If that is the case, he shall inform the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u177	We shall begin the voting. It takes into consideration proposals for legislation. Proposal for a law of the Parliamentary Group VOX, Organic amending the Organic Law 5/1985 of 19 June of the General Electoral Regime, to include as ineligible fugitives from justice. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 149 against, 188 abstentions, 2.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u178	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is not taken into consideration. - of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations (CGE) together with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) on the granting of Spanish nationality to Sahrawis born under Spanish sovereignty. [[File number 122/00215]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u179	Proposal for a law of the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, on the granting of Spanish nationality to Saharans born under Spanish sovereignty. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 168 against, 118 abstentions, 53.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-14-CD230214.u180	Accordingly, the proposal for a law is taken into consideration. [[Applauds]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Good night. The meeting was suspended until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It was eight thirty-five minutes of the night.
