ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was called to order. Take your seats, please. [[Rumors]] We begin with the agenda item corresponding to the validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. First, it is the debate on the validation or repeal of Royal Decree-Law 20/2022 of 27 December of measures to respond to the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine and to support the reconstruction of the island of La Palma and other vulnerable situations. To present the royal decree law, I have the floor, on behalf of the Government, the Minister of the Presidency, Relations with the Courts and Democratic Memory. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u2	Good morning to everyone and everyone. I rise to this rostrum to request the validation of the Royal Decree Law 20/2022, which we adopted on 27 December with measures to respond to the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine, with measures to support the reconstruction of the island of La Palma and also with other alternatives to situations of vulnerability. [[Rumors]] We are aware that the situation is complex and that uncertainties remain to be cleared, such as the duration of the war, the evolution of commodity prices and also of energy markets and, in general, all the challenges of the digital and green transition in this complex international context. But Spanish society must be absolutely certain that for every uncertainty the Government will provide security and that we will find a just solution to the problems that are being raised in our country. As long as the war lasts, we will do whatever it takes and how long it takes to protect families and businesses in our country. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u4	The data support us and we can say that the economic situation in our country, in Spain, is reasonably positive, despite the omens of a recession last summer in 2022. Spain has resisted the clashes of war well, as before resisted the clashes of the pandemic well, and therefore we have important strengths that I describe to you all. We have an economy that will grow above 5% in 2022 and the forecasts for 2023 are also optimistic and reasonably positive for our country. We have an inflation rate that has fallen 5 points in five months, thanks to the policies that this government that has approved this House has put in place. That has meant that Spain today has the lowest inflation in Europe, the lowest, thanks to the measures that the Government has been taking. We have employment levels that have not been seen for three years, with more than 20.5 million active workers. In addition, Spain today is an attractive country for foreign and international investment, which has increased by 55% during the first three quarters of 2022, with very important investments and with very significant companies, such as Google, Volkswagen or Cisco, among others. Our country, Spain, is also leading cutting-edge energy projects such as the gas pipeline that is going to unite Barcelona with Marseille, to which we have also seen Germany join in the last few days. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u5	Excuse me a moment, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, can we keep a little silence in the Chamber, showing a little education?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Citizens not only see all this positive news, which is a reality, but - more importantly - they notice it. They are noted by the pensioner, who sees how his average pension is going to increase 160 euros per month in January 2023, unlike the 3 euros per month that would have raised the pension under the 2013 law. This means for pensioners who will have 1560 euros more per year, i.e. a fifteenth payment they will have so as not to lose precisely purchasing power in the face of rising inflation. They are also noticed by workers, especially those workers who receive the minimum wage, which now stands at 1000 euros compared to the 735 that they received when we arrived at the government in 2018. This minimum wage is mainly paid to women, domestic workers and young people. That is why the rise in the minimum wage is a fair rise, a fair policy. [[Applauds]] They are noted by the 3.6 million workers who were protected by the ERTE during the pandemic, who did not lose their jobs and returned to their business when their businesses' economic activity recovered; also by the million self-employed who received the cessation benefit, or by the thousands of companies who went to ICO credits to ensure that they could continue their business after the worst of the pandemic. They also note the measures that we have taken in the Government by families and businesses, which have already saved EUR 28 billion thanks to the Iberian solution, which some of you will recall that the bench on the right called otherwise. For the Iberian solution has meant 28 billion savings for Spanish companies and families. And so have the thousands and millions of Spaniards who have celebrated these holiday holidays without fear of being fired when they returned to their jobs in January. Therefore, our country's economic situation and our country's resistance to the war in Ukraine are reasonably positive. We have good data that are showing the strength of our country and our economy. We will therefore continue to take measures to protect the middle classes of our country from the uncertainties caused by the war. There was another way of acting and perhaps we have not yet forgotten it; there was a way of governing that included cuts, austerity and also defending the interests of the powerful and not the interests of the country's large social majorities. This Government has chosen to protect the middle classes, the working classes of our country, because now it is when they need to be protected by the public in the face of uncertainties. It is a just way out of the crisis; what we are looking for is a way out of the just, socialist, progressive and social-democratic crisis. That is our model and this is where it is shown that different governments are implementing different policies. It is not the same to rescue the bank without any consideration that temporarily tax the extraordinary benefits of the bank to protect the great social majority of our country. It is not the same to lower your arms and to accept with your head the cuts and austerity that came from Brussels that to beat copper in the European Commission to get solutions for Spain and for the rest of Europe that protect the middle class and the working class of our country. [[Applauds]] Therefore, as we are not the same, as it is not the same economic model that represents the right and the economic and social model that represents a progressive government, today the results are different emerging from crises such as that of the pandemic and, then, that of the war in Ukraine. It is within this framework that he presented the royal decree law that I submit to the validation of this House, with measures of extraordinary and urgent need to meet the needs of individuals, families, businesses and, in general, our country in a situation as extraordinary as the war in Ukraine is. The measures contained in the decree can be grouped into seven blocks, which I will briefly and succinctly explain to you. The first block contains measures to protect the family economy. As you all know, the VAT on food has been reduced from 10% to 5% in the case of oil and pasta, and VAT has also been completely eliminated in basic foodstuffs such as milk, bread, flour, eggs, fruit or vegetables. We have also granted a check of 200 euros for people with annual incomes of less than 27,000 euros, which we believe will benefit 4.2 million people in our country. The 15% increase in minimum living income and non-contributory pensions - i.e. the lowest benefits we have to help the most difficult people in our country - has been extended and the increase in the inter-professional minimum wage has also been extended until the new minimum wage for 2023 is approved. The second block includes measures to reduce the cost of housing at a time like the current one. The increase in rents throughout 2023 is limited to 2%, evictions to vulnerable persons are suspended when they do not have a housing alternative and a mandatory extension is introduced for rental contracts that end during this period so that they are automatically extended until 30 June of this year. The third block concerns measures relating to public transport, to encourage the use of public transport and also to reduce it to those who use it. Free allowances are granted for nearby, rolling and mid-distance trains, as well as free bus allowances for services under the jurisdiction of the General Administration of the State. The rest of the public transport which is not State competition will be subsidised by 30%, provided that the relevant autonomous community also applies a 20% subsidy, both for autonomous communities and for local entities, in such a way that 50% of the price for regular transport travellers will be reached. The fourth block, ladies and gentlemen, contains measures to tackle the rise in energy prices. Until 30 June the compensation mechanism for the electro-intensive industry is extended, which has had such a good result for our companies, and also the price cap for butane candy and liquefied gases. Until the end of the year, taxes on electricity bills are reduced and the supply of electricity, natural gas and water to vulnerable consumers is also prohibited. The fifth bloc includes measures to protect the sectors most affected by the consequences of the war in Ukraine. For example, the climb of motorway tolls throughout the year is limited to 4%. The 20 cents per litre of fuel are maintained for certain professional groups in the transport or agricultural sector, and for those who do not benefit from this discount on the price of the litre, a direct subsidy per type of vehicle is established for taxis, VTCs, freight transport, ambulances or buses, a direct aid ranging from EUR 300 to EUR 3690. Finally, direct aid is also provided for the fishing sector of between EUR 1100 and EUR 300,000 per vessel depending on the type of fishing vessel - national or international -, the type or the length. The sixth block - and I do not want to overlook the importance of this block - collects measures to continue helping the inhabitants of the island of La Palma to rebuild their island after the consequences of the volcano. We remain committed in the Government to those affected by the volcano eruption and will be there - I myself was last week - until the last life project that was affected by the volcano eruption is rebuilt. We therefore extended much of the measures already in place, such as, for example, the moratorium on mortgage or non-mortgage loans, the exemption from the IBI and from the economic activity tax, the ERTE resulting from the consequences of the volcano, the termination benefits for self-employed persons. [[Applauds]] In addition to the measures that we extend on the island of La Palma, we also set out some new measures. For example, material aid is extended to regular housing for persons who were not homeowners and therefore could not be beneficiaries. I am referring, in particular, to widowed women who were users of housing because their husbands had died; in the case of these thirty women - because they were some 30 women who had not been able to receive assistance - we have diagnosed this problem and we have given it a fair solution, extending to the usufruct the possibility of benefiting from aid for the loss of habitual housing. We therefore continue to work for La Palma, just as we continue to work for the economic and social sectors of our country. The last block of the royal decree law, the seventh, contains other measures among which he highlighted only two. On the one hand, the fiscal measures for those affected by the forest fires that we suffered last summer throughout our geography - in fifteen autonomous communities - and which will result in exemptions from IBI quotas, reductions in the tax on economic activities and also exemptions from the aid received in the IRPF. On the other hand, in terms of health, we are going to keep the VAT on surgical masks at 4% and we are going to protect, by way of an exemption, the tax on vaccines and diagnostic tests. This is the content of the decree law which I submit to you and for which I ask the favorable vote. As you can see, it is difficult to say that no to this list of measures that you are going to protect and that you are going to help our citizens, unless the reasons for not voting in favour of this royal decree law are to try to harm the Government or any other that certainly do not have the citizen at the centre of the concerns of the political group concerned. These measures should lead to a virtually unanimous agreement, such as the one that should also lead to the measures that we took in the midst of the pandemic and that saved so many lives. They should call this agreement patriotism, because when there are problems of this nature we should all act together, and also in common sense, because it has been shown at European and national level that these measures that the Government is proposing are functioning measures. Therefore, so that we have a fair sharing of burdens; so that we continue to protect those who need it; so that we continue to protect the middle classes of our country, businesses and the self-employed, and so that we go out and avoid completely the policy of fear that tries to tell us that the future will be worse, we speak of hope, of hope in a better future, in which we continue to work so that we have a more just country every day. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with good news for Spain and I am sure that for all of you: 2023 will be a very good year. It will be a year in which Spain will make progress in economic, social, political, rights and freedoms. Therefore, 2023 will be a great year, starting today with the approval of this royal decree law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Gimeno was the first speaker on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u8	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree, like previous ones, among many other measures, includes an express process for the acceleration of renewables, a process that will change the future of the country and of the rural environment and that will provoke the greatest environmental aggression in history. Articles 22 and 23 of the Royal Decree already culminate in the succession of previous decrees with a deregulation of the regulations for the location of renewable plants that will destroy the territory of emptied Spain. The recent European regulation they claim to comply with is unwarranted, since there are no specific prior areas or strategic environmental assessment, and the information phase of the environmental assessment is also missed. They do not order the territory or protect the landscape and facilitate the transformation of rustic soil into industrial, which will mean filling the territory with large power plants and high voltage lines and opening the way to a bubble of renewables at the cost of the rural environment of Teruel, Aragon and Spain empty, where precisely because the soil is cheap, there are few people and the capacity of citizen pressure is very low. They reiterate the oblivion of the transfer of benefits from the energy transition that had to be made to local entities and also the drive to distributed generation. As a result, there is and will be even more a prosperous Spain and another Spain that is sacrificed for the benefit of the former.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u9	Mr. Guitar, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u10	We don't agree. Eliminate articles 22 and 23. In the meantime, we will vote no and call on the Members of Parliament from the affected provinces to do the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u11	Thank you, Mr. Guitarte. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. It is no longer surprising that the Government insists on implementing silent measures through the extraordinary figure of the Royal Decree-Law, which in this case are committed outside the general budgets of the State to avoid the European Commission's yellow card for failing to commit to spending. Mr President, with Spain in a critical situation, you are closing down in a band even if we are starting a new financial year. It is regrettable that the Government continues to listen deafly to the opposition's proposals. The dialogue and the opportunity to reach agreements on issues that respond to the general interest and the fight against inflation, which the past 2022 closed as the worst in thirty-five years, is being rejected. The great rise in the cost of living affects family economies, the shopping basket and productive sectors as important as primary or transport, among many others, who do notice, Mr Bolaños, and very much. For the benefit of society, you should rectify and change your attitude. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Mr Sayas López has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u14	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, the truth is that the measures contained in this decree are insufficient, they are late and I could even tell you that some are truly complex. We already have three decrees and the situation of many Spaniards remains very difficult. Food prices are rising by 15%. Many families in Spain have difficulty paying mortgages, because they have seen how they increased by almost 2,000 euros on average. The income pacts are still not coming and this is causing many Spaniards to have to pull savings in order to reach the end of the month. You don't get the money to lower the VAT on meat, cans or fish, that's why you don't get it; you don't get the money to keep the 20 cents of saving on gasoline or diesel; you don't get the money to lower the IRPF. But they do get the money to give €4750 million of over-financing to Catalonia because they have agreed with their members of Esquerra Republicana, which is exactly half the amount of what all the measures it contains in this decree cost. They do get the money to give 800 million euros of overfinancing to Spanish Radiotelevision. They do get the money to increase the propaganda they make in the media by 55 million to wash the image of the government. They do have the money to finance a ministry with more than 9% increase, that of Equality, which is seeing its policies fail. They do have the money to maintain twenty - two ministries with their respective elephantic structures. I mean, you're not people's government, you don't care about people. All they care about is power and what money comes for is to sustain those who allow them to maintain power. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u15	Thank you, Mr. Sayas. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you say it is difficult to say no to this decree. What is difficult is to maintain such a triumphalist discourse when we are talking about a decree of help, of necessity to recover life; and here I go to palm trees, of necessity to recover their home, their home, their economic activity. Of course we will vote yes, but we do not have to have such triumphalist speeches when it is a decree of help and extreme necessity. I'm gonna tell you one thing and I'm not gonna get tired of repeating it. These measures are very good and we will support them, but La Palma needs certainties. He doesn't need decrees with an expiration date. She needs a reconstruction plan over the years, and my colleague, Mrs Ana Oramas, and I have fought for it in the General Budgets of the State: 100 million for a reconstruction plan; 1.5 million for the mental health plan; tax bonuses that arrive quickly, without bureaucracy, without paperwork; an average of 300 euros in the pocket of palm families, which is a success. We have to go on, because, like the usufructs, there are so many other realities that are not being contemplated and the money is not reaching La Palma, it is not reaching where it has to go. We talk about hectares totally buried by lava, we talk about more than a thousand houses buried and more than four thousand closed, closed tourism, closed industry... When are we going to address all these issues? And, more importantly, when will there be certainties and not decrees with expiration date? Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u17	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Finally, for the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mr Botran Pahissa has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u18	Thank you, President. I have very little time to talk about a lot of things and I will focus on just two. The fall in VAT on commodities, if not accompanied by price controls, can be put off by companies, and more so by taking account of the oligopolistic nature of supermarkets. [[The Lord]] Only Mercadona, Carrefour and Lidl already control 41% of the market. It is the same price control that was applied with gas and masks, which works and which we also claim for rent. Although VAT is the worst of taxes, if it is not replaced by another form of fairer collection, the result is a fall in State revenue for public policies. Secondly, the two points of the royal decree law that reduce the control of the macro renewable facilities are those that lead us to vote against. It is a contradiction that wants to increase electricity production in industrial volumes as electricity consumption declines since the 2008 crisis. We have trouble taking advantage of this electricity. Only about 20% of the final energy consumed is electrical. Therefore, promoting macroparks by jumping the environmental impact report is only because of the interest of those who build them, not because of energy planning on what will be done with that electricity. For example, this should be the case: I'm giving you a license if you show that this electricity will be consumed - let's put it on a case-by-case basis - because the railway is expanding a lot, because it's a strategic need to get trucks off the roads. But that's not the case. Licences will therefore be issued without the environmental impact report for electricity that cannot be placed on the market. For this reason, renewables do, but not in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u19	Thank you. Mr Matute García de Jalón has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u20	Egun on guztioi, good morning. Lights and shadows, Minister. I do not think of any other way to define this royal decree than in that way because, in the end, this royal decree resembles very much the action of his Government. It includes new measures, measures in the right direction; it includes lukewarm steps, measures that would also go in the right direction and also includes errors that, from our point of view, allow or pretend to generate a certain balance of social peace with precisely those to whom this crisis is not touching, because what they are doing is to fatten their profit accounts. I will give you a review of most of the measures, although you have already done so, to position our group. You have spoken about transport aid; it is okay and we believe it has been a correct decision. To improve public transport, especially in close and medium distance through Renfe and other operators, has been a good measure not only for the immediate benefit to consumers of such transport elements, but also, and fundamentally, because it helps another threat that we have around the corner and that goes beyond the war in Ukraine, of what could be the effects of the La Palma volcano or other vulnerability situations, which is the ecological transition. Controlling the price of electricity is another good measure. We are pleased to see that further progress is being made on this. We think it is right that evictions should continue to be prevented from people without a housing alternative, but something must be done better because, for example, this one now in Vallecas is evicting a family without a housing alternative, and that is just an example of the many that are surely taking place throughout the geography of the Spanish State. It is good that supply cuts - who can oppose that - are prevented, but it is still bloody that, while we talk about this and say it clearly, there is the Royal Cañada. It is good that workers from companies who have received aid - it seems reasonable, it seems logical, and you have pointed out ICO and other aid lines - are not dismissed; it is good, of course, that the inter-branch minimum wage is raised and it is just as good that pensions are increased by 8.5 %. It is also good that non-contributory pensions are raised to 15% or that the increase in rental prices is limited to the GCI or 2%, which is the same. These two measures, by the way, were decisive for Euskal Herria Bildu to vote in favour of the general budgets of the State, and we did so in the negotiation. It is also good that we are doing something to try to reduce the price balance of the shopping basket, which involves buying food for citizens. All these measures are well, but still the situation is dramatic for a lot of people; dramatic to survive, not dramatic because there is one or another government that is more or less patriotic. But the state - this state, like any other - is anchored in a society, in a reality, and the reality in which it is is that of a market and that market is that of a capitalist-cut economy. It seems obvious that in a capitalist model inequality does not quote, in a capitalist market inequality is supposed to be, moreover, promoted. That is why capitalism is nothing but the accumulation of capital, the concentration of capital in few hands and the depletion of the working masses. This, which seems to be taken from a book, is very well explained, for example, in the mobilizations they are doing right now - and they will not be the only ones - the Autoglass workers in Laudio, who see how a vulture fund investigated by the National Audience, Parter Capital, has decided to buy a division of Guardian to send 250 workers to the street. I believe that there too we will have to do something else to prevent relocations. In short, all that is needed from the public authorities to recover initiatives, to recover areas of control and decision-making, and to recover intervention is fine, but what is needed is that the measures are structural. If inequality is structural, all these measures that I have announced here today would not have to be exceptional, they would have to be permanent and structural until inequality is reduced to zero. Inequality has never been in the Spanish state under 17%, and that, translated into people, is millions of people, citizens of the Spanish state who have to live in a scenario of vulnerability, sometimes extreme, for the system to continue to work, for the wheel of capitalism to continue to move. Like I said, there are shadows, too. So far I've told you what we think is positive about this royal decree. There are shadows such as, for example, making constant use of reductions in value added tax, VAT and indirect tax. That seems to us to be wrong, because lowering VAT does not even affect the rich and the poor alike. Lowering VAT directly affects the poor and benefits the rich exponentially, because their capacity for consumption is much greater than that of any low-income citizen. Therefore, a general reduction that affects everyone equally benefits and widens the gap of inequality or unequal distribution of wealth; moreover, this fall in VAT does not always affect consumers. What happened to the 20 cents off the fuel? How long did it take for the companies that market the fuels to propose an increase equivalent to the government's rebate so that the price of the fuel will cost exactly the same to the pockets of citizens? What happened to the price of the electric bill when the government decided to lower VAT so that the bill would not be so burdensome for citizens? That the electrics continued to climb in the parts they could to continue to win the profit margins that feed their bonuses and bonuses on their boards of directors. And what's going on with food prices? Well, exactly the same thing. The reduction in VAT on food prices is probably leading us to have to live with scandalous increases in food, for example, on large distribution platforms. Some have already been mentioned here, but it seems that there are studies, such as the OCU, which certify that Mercadona or DIA are rising food prices above 15%, even doubling the consumer price index. What we are asking you to do is to limit the price of commodities. It was done, as you have already been told, with masks and electricity, why not with food? What is more basic than food for the subsistence of any human being? What is to be prevented if article 128 of the Constitution determines that all the wealth of the State will be subordinated to the general interest? It seems that having a well-fed population can be a supreme general interest of any State that values being democratic. Another element that we do not like - and we tell you clearly - is the relaxation or administrative laxity that is made for energy projects under the umbrella of the renewable, and that will allow macroprojects to see the light without the required and necessary environmental impact reports so far. That is dangerous because when you say that what you want is to speed up and accelerate, what is being done is to allow macro-projects that affect the environment to be built without environmental impact studies, and we disagree there. We sincerely believe that we must leave that claim of funambulism which is intended to pass through a loose rope between progressive values and a certain balance with the other part of society, that of last Sunday's parishioners, surely, but it is that these move in antithesis, move in the decision contrary to what we have been proposing. We will support everything that has to do with the social shield, with public intervention in strategic sectors, with initiatives that limit the price of things, but, of course, we believe that this...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u21	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u22	It's over now. That it is treated as a bill so that we can modify those elements that, of course, do not go in the right direction. That is, in short, the antagonistic position that the left stand for with the right, the antagonistic position that defines those who want to lead this country or this state towards a reality of left-wing policies, in front of those who manifest themselves - Sunday yes, or when they touch them - so that we return to dark scenarios. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u23	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u24	Thank you, President. Egun on. We already speculated that we would be faced with a new package of spending measures that was not contained in the general budgets of the State, which was intended to be adopted by the second scenario that was sent to Brussels, because the Government already anticipated or knew the persistence of the circumstances that had motivated the first measures taken by the war in Ukraine. A decree to reduce energy prices, now also food prices, moderate inflation and support the most vulnerable groups or sectors, extending some measures and establishing new ones. A decree that contains short-term measures that my group continues - and we continue - to understand as necessary and that they pursue, as I said, to help families and businesses, to mitigate the high prices not only of electricity but also of food, the great horse of battle. Faced with the moderation of general inflation - which falls below the European average, largely because of the energy measures adopted and, in particular, because of the Iberian exception - the fact is that the underlying inflation, far from being moderate, has increased by 7%, similar to the European average. My group will support the decree because it contains proposals that my group has been asking the Government on various occasions, for example, to maintain the main measures to protect vulnerable families and groups, and to ensure access to basic electricity and gas supplies. The 30% subsidy for urban and inter-urban public transport for all autonomous communities, which in turn improve 20% of the price, is maintained for six months, a measure which, in addition, reduces energy demand, pollution and is progressive. Specific aid is envisaged for the intensive gas industry, a line of guarantees for intensive gas and a reduction of 80 % in tolls for electro-intensive gas; the maintenance of a line of aid for installations or industrial sectors with high natural gas consumption, whose subjective scope is now extended to new activities, as requested, and which will also take into account energy consumption, as we claim in its day in order to make this measure more effective. The industry relief contract is also extended, as requested by a question we asked the Minister of Industry, and includes the gas cap mechanism for waste energy recovery plants using natural gas as fuel. The estimate of the fuel price for cogeneration is also included. However, here we doubt a little of its effectiveness. If we take into account what has been approved for the second half of 2022, it seems that this remuneration will not compensate for the losses suffered by this sector so far. The management of transport in knots subject to competitions for access capacity for renewables is regulated. My group has also always advocated and called for measures to be much more focused on the most vulnerable sectors of society and the economy; measures to really support those who are having a bad time, as the European Union has been calling for. The truth is that, in this sense, the decree is somewhat more progressive, somewhat more focused on some measures. For example, with regard to the 20 cent per litre bonus measure, which is no longer universal for all people, regardless of their income, but is maintained for the sectors most dependent on fuel prices such as transport, agriculture and fisheries. Perhaps this measure should also be extended, for example, to self-schools, because for them too fuel is essential for their activity. We will support the decree, but we will also move some doubts with certain measures because they are not so focused, because they leave certain sectors out and because we understand that the effect is going to be very limited. Measures that should, perhaps, be reviewed. The fall in VAT on food; a measure not targeted as the same tax rates apply, regardless of the level of income of the consumer, regardless of its purchasing power. A measure which, by the way, the Government at first ruled out when the opposition requested it because of the sluggishness it would entail for the State's coffers, because it was not effective and because it had little room for manoeuvre and would also widen the business margins of the distributors. This was said by the Government. What's changed now? A measure that should be reconsidered because it is not focused, as I said, on the most vulnerable, because part of the rebate will be transferred to the offer and because, in the end, it is very difficult to know or estimate which part of the rebate will end up in the hands of the distribution and which part will benefit the final consumer. A measure that is not studied or designed to reduce inequality, because precisely lowering indirect taxes is not a redistributive measure. A reduction that the last studies, like that of Fedea, already point out that, in addition, it benefits more people with high incomes. A measure that, in addition, and despite the high collection, implies a significant loss of resources in a country with a significant structural deficit, which has to issue debt to pay what it spends. A measure which has also not taken into account the impact that certain foods have on health because, although the types of certain products are reduced, the VAT on meat or fish is left out of the reduction, the latter being a fundamental element of the Mediterranean diet and whose consumption has decreased considerably due to its high prices. With regard to the €200 cheque measure, I would like to mention that the measure was actually adopted in July and is now extended to a larger group, since it increases the income threshold so that they can benefit, but it is excluded from the cheque to persons who receive contributory and non-contributory pensions and those who receive the IMV because their payments have been revalued and yet may be collecting very low monthly amounts and not exceeding those thresholds. More than 50 per cent of pensions in the State are below the inter-professional minimum wage and women pensioners also have very low pensions. A measure that, in addition, takes into account the income of all members of the household, but does not take into account how many are or their ages to, at least, perhaps adjust that amount of aid. A measure that, moreover, needs an agile and easy design because the potential beneficiaries do not get the information to the effect and in many cases do not have the means to request it. Maybe this could be better. Perhaps we should be able to design vouchers or targeted checks by income level or product level to help those who need it most, including expanding existing instruments, such as IMV, to avoid that risk of poverty and social exclusion. Finally, an underlying inflation that does not give rise to truce and, however, the decree does not provide for anything about inflation and wages. Perhaps, when it asks others to revalue it so that the purchasing level does not decrease or do so to a lesser extent, it could set an example and perhaps encourage it to revalue it, at least by facilitating the revision of the prices of public contracts when the labour force is the main cost that would allow companies to impact on the price the costs of the wage increase applied in the agreement and, moreover, by facilitating the adoption of wage agreements, avoiding labour conflict and ensuring the provision of the service that today is impossible by the Public Sector Contracts Act. We will, of course, support this new package of social and economic measures that was adopted at the last Council of Ministers because, as I said, it incorporates measures requested by my group, because its purpose is correct, it is to alleviate the negative effects of the crisis, but also, we must say, we are already witnessing the use of this package of measures by both of us as a marketing policy in the face of the May elections and what is really needed is to roll over, transform this economy...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u25	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u26	...to allow us, in the future, to address in another way exceptional situations. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u27	Thank you. I give the floor, for the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, to Mrs Martínez Granados.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u28	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the phrase 'new year, new life', sadly, cannot be applied to Pedro Sánchez's Spain. We have opened a new session with the same vices and the same problems with which we closed the previous one. Why, ladies and gentlemen? Very simple, because Sánchez's purpose for this 2023 is still the same as in each and every one of his years of government: to stay in Moncloa at all costs. This 'at all costs' is not another phrase made, it is at the expense of the Spanish, ladies and gentlemen. For this purpose to keep the chair fall down, Sanchez goes any way, explains the inexplicable and has the commitment, above all, to continue to rule under decree. Since arriving in Moncloa are already 135 royal decrees laws -135-, beating all the records seen in this House. This without forgetting the handling, by the way of urgency, of what interests Pedro Sánchez himself, of the extraordinary plenary sessions to vote with premeditation, nightliness and lightening the things that interest Pedro Sánchez, but the things that interest the Spaniards always arrive late and always arrive bad. As usual, a new decree brings us here today with the same intention as ever: the automatic validation of this House, becoming, once again, Congress as a mere process without debate, without dialogue and without consensus in what is for you a mere television set, a beautiful stage to start campaigning for next May. But the main problem with this decree that the Government brings us here is that it again sins from the same mistakes as always. This is the third royal decree with anti-crisis measures that brings to this House and always come with the same argument: they seem to have magical solutions to end citizens' problems and contain this crisis. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we know you well, we know that you are capable of anything for being able to make an announcement on drums and platters. They're the kings of propaganda. Do you think if you had more than one good idea you'd waste it on a package, here, on a real law decree all mixed up? Here, gentlemen of the government, the measures go to weight. They want to accumulate things so that they look like they're doing a lot, but it's really going to have a little impact on our society, because over and over again reality ends up imposing and proving that complex problems are never solved like this, with easy, magical solutions. Let's start with the government's star measure in this new royal decree: the reduction of VAT on the basics of the shopping basket; a measure that has already proved ineffective and that is nothing but pure electoralism, Mr Sánchez's specialty: selling, campaigning anywhere and at any time. As the Spaniards are not fools and see prices continue to rise, it turns out that the blame is now on the large surfaces. It's Mercadona's fault. What citizens do not know is that the government itself is the one that is collecting the most in this crisis, with this high inflation. And it takes measures that are merely cosmetic, that have a minimal cost to the government, for what? So I can face the next election in May. We wonder what has changed in recent months so that an idea that members of this government have publicly repudiated now is the table of salvation for Spanish families. Do you really no longer remember what Mrs Montero said just a few months ago about lowering the VAT on food? Does Mrs Yolanda Díaz - we have her here - no longer feel that lowering VAT would only benefit large areas? Rather, I thought it was not a real solution for Spanish families. And worst of all, will there be any mechanism to see if this solution is true that it minimizes the impact of inflation? Are you going to evaluate the policies you implement? Because we think it really isn't. I tell you more, in this case this discount from the shopping basket is not going to reach the pocket of the Spaniards. Gestha has a study in which it is said that in a purchase of 100 euros the savings would not reach 3.5 euros; I insist, 3.5 euros. And for Fedea the remaining savings are 0.07%. If since Moncloa they don't know how much a coffee is worth, how much gas is worth, they don't know what it's like to go to the supermarket to make the purchase. For what 3.5 euros when what they should be doing is deflating the IRPF, which is what could really help all Spanish families and in all stages? Because, yes, inflation is for all citizens. Measures like this would be important and would have a greater impact on families. But, of course, the only thing they want to do here is to mix a series of measures into a totum revolutum, which is what this government likes most. For what? So we can adopt other kinds of things that we really don't like. That there are measures in this royal decree that are right? Yes, of course, there are some measures that are fine, but you always sin the same thing: you bring a real decree with very different measures, some that are not assumed by parties like the Liberal Party of our country, Citizens. And you can't pretend to come at the stroke of a royal decree so that we have to say yes to all things, that can't be. For example, let's talk about young people. The problem with access to housing should be a national priority. The price limit of the rentals you have agreed with your Bildu partners is nothing more than a patch, which has also proved ineffective once again. Rental price control policies have proved to be wrong in many parts of the world. Meanwhile, we make proposals. The liberal recipe is to bet on a greater offer to lower prices in places of great demand, which has shown that it does work. But we don't stay there, we want to improve the facilities so that young people can access a mortgage, increase the number of affordable rental homes or schedule the capture of empty floors. These are measures that Citizens have been defending in this Congress for several years, throughout the entire legislature. For all this, the leadership of my party has decided to abstain and we will do so. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u29	Thank you very much. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Once again we are in front of a real omnibus law decree with very different elements, in which alongside measures that although we may consider insufficient - for example, do not set ceilings at the price of fuels - are positive, other clearly negative appear. This conditions our voting position because if we cannot and do not want to vote against many of the proposals, especially in the area of economic aid to sectors that are having a bad time, we cannot vote in favour of others, such as the forecast of compensation for electric oligopoly, with an extraordinary amount of EUR 2 billion, and in particular the modification of the administrative procedure for the authorisation of wind farms, which represents an absolute free bar for companies at the expense of the environment and the interests of our people. We want to be clear. If this change were to be dealt with independently, it would have a strong negative BNG vote. That is why we also call for it to be treated as a draft law in order to correct the misunderstanding of the need for a declaration of environmental impact for new land park projects, as well as public exposure and, therefore, the possibility of an allegation on the part of the persons concerned. It is a real abuse of popular interests, for greater profit from large companies. This is not an ecological transition, let alone a just one.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u31	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u32	Yeah. Galicia - I finish - already produces more energy from renewable sources than we consume, but we have more than 300 wind farms in processing. That's why thousands of people go out on the street and say, "Window, not so! [[Shows a sign with that text]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u33	Thank you. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u34	Thank you very much, President. I announce that we will vote in favour of the decree because there is no doubt that it has positive measures, but there are other aspects that we believe do not meet expectations, and also this decree comes with poisoned gift. Aspects that don't meet. For example, aid to the intensive gas industries has been cut short; they are clearly insufficient and are not up to the standards, and this is denounced by the ceramic industries in Castellón. In addition, the textile finishing subsector has been left out, with a very high dependence on gas. And we urge them to include these textile finishing industries in the annex to the decree so that they can receive these aid. In addition, 250,000 farms have been left out, which are also affected by the increase in fertilizers, just because they are excluded from CAP payments, many Valencians among them. And finally, poisoned gift: shortening the deadlines for environmental processing to speed up the expansion of renewables, which are precisely the ones that pose the greatest risk to the environment, can also generate the opposite effect. We understand that there will be more lawsuits in the courts, it is excluding citizens from the participation of citizens and, moreover, it makes it difficult to accept these renewables socially. I think this is a bad way. We will vote in favour, but we insist that it be treated as a bill to remedy all those negative aspects that we and other previous speakers have pointed out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u35	Thank you. Mrs Calvo Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u36	Minister, every time you rule by royal decree the law violates the right of each and every representative of the popular sovereignty of this House. A royal decree law is to be used to resolve emergencies in extraordinary situations and therefore circumvents parliamentary control. But you systematically abuse the Rules of Procedure and serve us again an inedible Macedonian law, which gives for five decrees. For example, on a single page they mix retired doctors - those who offer to reintegrate into health care due to lack of professionals - the public competition of a Spanish company in the UK and the modification of the interprofessional minimum wage; a new barbecue with book merinas. The royal decree law amends up to fourteen laws, six of which are not one year old. Their improvisation generates legal insecurity and parliamentary defencelessness because they force us to vote in bloc their totum revolution. It is anti-democratic and it is unfair, because there are measures that are unacceptable, but others that we support. They are using, for example, the rise in pensions or the fall in VAT on basic foods to give us the classic energy payments. You said a few minutes ago that it's hard to vote no. This is simply a pure emotional political blackmail. Almost a year after the start of the Putin war they continue to improvise the electricity sector; they explain that they have contributed 40 billion in measures to deal with the crisis resulting from the war, but they remain silent that they have collected much more from the inflation generated. That money comes out of the pockets of all citizens and not of the big electric companies, which, like banking, always wins. They decree a budgeted appropriation of $2 billion to cover the deficit in the electricity system. There are already 3360 million for oligopoly and 200 euritos for the most vulnerable - we are in electoral campaign, of course -. A loan of 112.5 million to compensate oligopoly companies for the reduction of tolls from the electrical system for the electro-intensive companies, the rest of the consumer companies do not receive any aid. Force the gas companies to store more gas with which they will do business, of course, and compensate them for not charging for storage, which we will also pay at a cost: 23 million. They determine that the costs of the transport network and distribution of urgent, strategic and priority actions for the energy transition can, exceptionally, be paid with public funds. Attention, will you allow a large oligopoly company to build with public funds the line of connection to your renewables plant? The minister said in a recent interview - Minister Ribera -: we are not Robin Hood, but we seek the fairness of the system. Indeed, you are not Robin Hood, who would not have allowed the compensations and pre-bends that end up always benefiting large companies in the electricity sector. There is little direct aid to companies, with some sound exceptions - and I finish -: 90 million to the Community of Valencia to invest in the battery plant. Congratulations. Justification: almost 6% of the working population in the Valencian Community is engaged in the automotive sector. In Catalonia it is 10%, but in Catalonia the millions do not arrive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u37	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Capdevila i Esteve has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. It brings us today for its validation a new royal decree of those to whom we are already overly accustomed, but the mimibarate of its arenga does not sweeten us or the diabetics. And, as usual, in more than a hundred pages of regulations of all kinds and colors, we find measures that we like, others that we will modify and others that we would perform. Let's start, therefore, with something important: the increase to 2000 meters of the limit to connect to a shared self-consumption facility. It is an important step towards the democratization of energy because every kilowatt hour you generate on your roof, yes, it disappears from your bill and also disappears from the environmental bill. Joan, Dani, Santi, Pep, Assumpta, Raül, Marta, companies, victory! We'll see about the Official Journal tomorrow. [[Applauds]] With this important measure we move on the path of abandoning an energy model dominated by oligopolies, with this measure we empower consumers a little more and with this measure, which is very important for municipalities, we facilitate the path towards a clean, fair and decentralized energy transition, and as it is clean, fair and decentralized it is also cheaper. We welcome the fact that, at last, the BOE takes up this boldly demanded measure by Esquerra, but also for countless associations that have helped to make it possible. Although, to be clear, the supporters of democratization and energy sustainability have won a battle, but we have not won the war. There are more goals set for what remains of the legislature: that the limit for shared self-consumption in rural areas be extended to 20 kilometers, as countries of our environment have done. And we will continue to demand the transposition of directives regulating energy communities, because shared self-consumption is not energy communities. And we will have to continue to fight to disaggregate distribution generation and to ensure competition and its subsequent positive impact on prices. In short, we will continue to fight for a full reform of the Electricity Sector Act, which has already fulfilled eight months of non-compliance with its reform by the Government, as it committed itself to the Climate Change Act. On environmental impact regulations, administrative simplification cannot turn only on the absence of requirements for environmental impact studies and, in addition, generate a paradox: that environmental impact studies are required in small projects - less than 50- and that you make them disappear from a pen for the big ones, which are usually those that have environmental impact. Without losing sight that the most important environmental impact is to stop generating CO2, this is a violation of the process of citizen participation that we hope will be reversed. This royal decree also includes important social security measures. They include an offer of 1,000 positions of local government officials with national qualifications, but they are not concrete as planned and we fear a huge game of where the ball is from. On transport, they prolong the great popular measure of free trains, but what good is it if the trains then fail to work, if the service is so poor that, in fact, there are no trains? [[Applauds]] In Catalonia we know well with the-let's call him - Renfe service. We also welcome the end of the discrimination suffered by the people who do not have a railway network - most of them in rural areas - by hearing the voices, at last, that have preached months and years in the desert, such as that of my colleague, the tireless Inés Granollers, with the extension of the bonus to regular road transport. We add to the reluctance - I believe that the results accounts of the large distributors will be the ones that tell us - with regard to the kindness of lowering VAT or not. They do not specify in their text how this monitoring is to be carried out beyond the controls of the under-dominated CNMC, and it seems to us to be a key element in ensuring that the measure fulfils its task. Nor do we find it justified that thousands and thousands of farms - 250 000, Minister, says the Union of Unions - should be left out of the measures by failing to meet one of the requirements: to receive direct aid from the CAP. It's not the only carelessness they've had. I am talking about aid for the intensive gas industries, which have already been mentioned. We must denounce that, once again, by haste, ignorance of industrial processes or by what intention, you have left some important sectors, such as textile finishes or manufacturers of sanitary equipment. We look forward to your subsequent amendment. We expect it through the Council of Ministers because we fear that the processing as a bill of this royal decree will be...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u39	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u40	I was just going to say greasy calendars. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u41	Thank you. Mr Guijarro García has the floor for the Confederal Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are being called today to inaugurate the legislative year with the validation of a text of emergency measures. A few weeks after its first tragic anniversary, it should be remembered that this urgency is caused by an open war in the heart of our continent, a war that brings us back to the horrors and threats of the twentieth century, whose misery we thought had finally exorcised away from our soil with the arrival of the millennium. It has, of course, been a last twelve difficult months for our country and our people. Although the Spanish Government has mobilised assets above EUR 40 billion in social aid over the last seven legislative packages decreed at the heart of this conflict -10 000 of which are linked to the one we are discussing here today - and despite the fact that exceptional measures have been taken and extended in the tax field, in the energy markets, of housing, transport, etc. - measures which, by the way, my colleagues Pilar and Juantxo will be talking about - despite the fact that there are more than 400 000 families benefiting from minimum living income and pensions have risen by 8,5 the time that the SMI has risen to EUR 1000 and now accumulates a rise of 36 % in four years, all of which, ladies and gentlemen, with all this, Workers' Commissions warn us in the most recent study published by its economic office that the loss of purchasing power of wages in 2022 has been 5,2 %. On the other hand, the most recent Gini index calculations for our country warn us that we have only managed to contain the spiral of inequality unleashed after the pandemic just a few months ago, with levels finally below the pre-COVID index since June last year. This can hardly comfort us if we take into account that levels of inequality were already frankly intolerable before that perfect storm. As the agenda for this plenary session sets out, we will have time from 4 p.m. today to explain and discuss the positions we defended as a country at the European Council meeting on 15 December. However, the content and scope of this decree law is so linked to the first that we do not want to fail to contextualize its validation based on a number of considerations set out below. Firstly, as far as our common defence and security policy is concerned, it seems urgent - urgent - to start the process of overcoming a defence scheme - the Atlantic axis - which, in our view, has shown a clear subordination of European interests with regard to the American partner and which simply decisively and unjustifiably conditions our relationship with the two Eastern giants: the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate cannot be Leopard yes or Leopard no. Secondly, we will make an unforgivable historical mistake if you allow this conflict to divert us from the path of structural reforms initiated by the COVID crisis not only because climate change does not negotiate deadlines, but because we can only sustain the social state of the future if we raise the productive capacities of our economy and guarantee a fair sharing of its fruits. That too, ladies and gentlemen, is at stake today. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u44	Today, almost three years ago, the exceptional situation caused by the pandemic forced this Government to take exceptional and urgent measures. Then the social shield began to be built with dozens of measures that over this long time have sustained thousands and millions of lives, measures that sought to guarantee above all basic goods and essential goods for life. This royal decree has that same objective. What we validate today in this royal decree are measures that we could say sustain life, measures that seek to guarantee above all basic goods such as, for example, the enjoyment and maintenance of families in their homes, in their homes. The extension of rental contracts is established during 2023 under the same conditions, the increase in rents is also met throughout 2023 by 2 %, the prohibition of supply cuts is extended throughout 2023 and the measures of protection against evictions for persons in vulnerable situations are extended. There are three very specific ideas about this. Today we validate, we must say so, measures of dignity, measures that defend the life and dignity of people, measures that should or should defend any rule of law, any democratic State, any civilized State, and any government of any colour and any decent public representative that respects its people. On the other hand, they are measures that call for co-responsibility; that is, that on this occasion greed and speculative anxiety do not fall on the State's back, that public money does not pay it, but that private agents are made co-responsibility. It ended, therefore, to privatise profits and socialize losses. Finally, much remains to be done and, I stress again, it is necessary to adopt a housing law where these measures become structural...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u45	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u46	... so that they are an essential part - I finish - of our welfare state; measures that protect households, families and protect their lives. It is a question of dignity and it is a question of political decency. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u47	Thank you. Mr López de Uralde Garmendia has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u48	Thank you, President. Minister, very briefly because you have been listening successively to all the spokesmen of the groups that support this government and we have all agreed that it is really a necessary royal decree, an important royal decree, but that it introduces two articles that are very problematic because they hinder the development of renewable energies in our country. I refer to Articles 22 and 23, which eliminate the environmental assessment process for the development of renewable energies. Minister, as you know, from the United Nations we can strongly support the development of an energy plan based 100% on renewable energy sources, but we understand that things need to be done well, they need to be done well, and that is why we believe that these articles do not help the sector. They do not help the sector, first of all, because what they do is they allow bad projects, projects that negatively affect the environment, to be cut, thus harming those who are doing the right thing. In this sense, we understand that environmental impact assessment is an essential tool precisely to support those who are doing it right and to leave out those who are doing it wrong. Furthermore, this measure is not in line with what the European Union has said, which calls for prior planning of where these renewable energies can be developed. In short, Minister, and from the deep conviction that it is essential to make rapid progress on renewable energy, we call for these articles to be corrected so that environmental assessment is not the pagan of the problems of pace that may arise in the approval of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u49	Your Honor, you must finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u50	We believe that there are tools to do so and what we are asking you to do is to listen to all the groups we are and support the Government to rectify these articles. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u51	For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Bolaños, although we all know that this is an economic debate and that you know nothing about the economy, thank you for coming to this first debate of the year on such a cold January day, so cold that I have seen a socialist put his hands in his own pockets. [[laughs]] Imagine how cold it is! [[Protests.-Applause.]] Traditions that break. [[The lady]] I like to keep the traditions. That's why, like so many Spaniards, on December 28th, the day of the Innocent Saints, I couldn't help but read the press with a bit of suspicion, trying to find the innocent, the news of the day that some media invent in a humorous way by making a wink at the reader. And, look, it seemed to me to find it at first when I read: Pedro Sánchez finally lowers food taxes to fight inflation. I say: This is the innocent, it has to be this, because that Pedro Sánchez lowers taxes, the same Pedro Sánchez who had led Spain to lead the fiscal pressure in Europe, did not seem very likely. Moreover, every time VOX proposed it, his Government refused. The last time the week before the publication of this royal decree. Do you remember what they were saying? That Europe wouldn't allow it. That's what you said. And when VOX insisted, you ended up attacking us by pulling your magic triangle, you know: Franco, virus, Putin. That's for whatever we say. But, look, I was glad when, in consultation with the BOE, I found that the VAT rates for some foods were actually falling. Because, look, the government is right when it copies us; it's right when it corrects us. [[Applauds]] All right, so there are measures of this royal decree law that we do not oppose because we have asked for them: a reduction in VAT for foods that we have been asking for since VOX for nine months; the extension of the decrease in VAT to energy that we have been asking for eighteen months, or the reduced rate for masks that VOX has been asking for since 2020. But then I kept turning it around. Are you sure there's no cat locked up? Because we already know that this government is not much to rectify; on the contrary, you chose partners, the worst possible, and in your desire to persevere in the error you had no limits: pardons, rapprochement of prisoners, modification of the Penal Code as the criminals, the coups, the corrupt. You passed a law that resulted in the release of rapists from prison and, as a result of persistent error, there are already nearly 250 sexual aggressors who have benefited from the law that releases rapists yes or yes. Nor does it seem that they are going to rectify at this stage in economic policy, because, in fact, what they bring us today is not a tax reduction, but a story. What you bring today is the appearance of lower taxes. And, of course, in that royal decree law that they bring to validate today there is no exercise of rectification, but only of political trilerism, with a difference: that the trilers in the streets are not seen the trick. Because you don't lower taxes, Minister, you raise them. You say here that a temporary reduction in VAT is applied to food worth EUR 660 million. Good, but it turns out that you have also passed a permanent tax on the packaging of those same foods for EUR 690 million. [[Applauds]] I already know that progress and left woke do not dislike mathematics, but believe me, I assure you, regardless of their feelings and self-perception, that 690 minus 660 are 30, with a gender perspective or without it. [[Applauds]] That is to say, you, in the area of food taxation, raise Spanish taxes by EUR 30 million. And that is not to say that you continue to take advantage of inflation to trigger the collection to levels never seen before; in particular, EUR 11 billion more than last year's only VAT thanks to inflation, i.e. the fallen VAT from the sky. Minister, listening to you in your previous speech would seem like Spain is going like a shot, wouldn't it? If it goes like a shot, why do you approve so many royal aid decrees? If Spain were so good, it wouldn't be necessary!Do you know why they have to bring so many decrees, supposedly aid, even if they are a lie? Because Spain is not doing well, Minister, because you are attacking economic activity. Spain is the only country in Europe that has not yet recovered pre-crisis income levels nor are we going to recover them, unfortunately, in this year 2023; we will have to wait until 2024. And not only that, you are deteriorating the wealth of families. Thanks to this government, we are poorer, with a disposable income per family of 7% less than before the crisis. With everything that's happened, we're poorer than before you came to the government. And not only that, it is also consumption, which is 5% below the level of 2019, and, Socialist ladies and gentlemen, it is inflation and the indecency to take advantage of it to continue increasing the collection, which is what this government is doing. [[Applauds]] So, look, when a government pulls the Spanish out a tax stream of EUR 11 billion more than before just because of the inflation effect, with a towel of EUR 660 million, which is not even 6% of what it has collected more, it does not contain the hemorrhage. That, Minister, is a fraud. Not to mention that you, thanks to the plastic tax, are raising the cost of food and attacking Spain's food distribution industry and service by attacking companies that have done much more than all of you for lowering the price of food. You have even come to say that you are going to intervene in food, which is certainly a sign that you are already maturing, like Nicolás Maduro; as the food sector intervenes we will see empty food shelves, out-of-stock linear. [[Applauds]] Minister, your triumphalism and that of Pedro Sánchez is incompatible with the real situation of Spanish households. We must take the inflationary trend very seriously, which is being ankylated; 2022 has closed with an average inflation of 8.3%, the highest in 36 years, an inflation that rose again in December. Food prices continue to skyrocket and the most serious thing is that the underlying inflation, i.e. the price index that does not take into account energy prices or the price of fresh products, has not stopped increasing, reaching 7 % and surpassing general inflation. But you do not rectify, but rather reciprocate and, more importantly, take measures to the contrary. You now decree the increase of unrepaired rents in the leaking effect of housing that has every market intervened, reducing the supply of housing and increasing prices. Once again, with its measures, the Government has the opposite effect, further hindering access to housing, which is a basic asset, and also increasing the price of new housing that goes out into the market. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is a disgrace to Spain and the Spanish. No one believes them anymore. Fortunately, and even though there's only VOX left, there's less left for you to get out of here. In the last year left, try to do as little harm as possible. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u53	Thank you, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr De Olano Vela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u54	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The first thing that draws attention to in today's debate is that we are before the actual decree number twenty of those adopted in 2022, which gives good account of the abuse by the Government of Sánchez of this legislative figure and of the none to the General Courts, and, as we are accustomed to, use it as a tailor's drawer to modify actions of all kinds affecting more than seven ministries, many of which, moreover, have nothing to do with the object of the decree. That is why we are surprised, Mr Bolaños, that you are the one who comes to defend this royal decree, because you have already been declared unconstitutional by seven rules out of your office, a record that is difficult to overcome. [[Applauds]] As I said, they respect nothing, neither the budgets approved by the Courts, nor the legal foundations of the budgetary institution, nor the principles of the Subsidy Act, nor, finally, the legislative role of Parliament, once again distorting the exceptionality of the royal decrees. Ladies and gentlemen, this royal decree was adopted on 27 December last, just four days after the general state budgets for 2023 were adopted, budgets which, as we have already warned, became wet paper at that time, even before they came into force. We said that in the budgets revenues were hidden and that not all expenses were collected and insulted and called us all, but the reality, the only reality, is that time has given us the reason once again, both to the Popular Parliamentary Group and to the AIReF, to the Banco de España and to all the independent bodies, public or private, that denounced the falseness of the public accounts presented by Sánchez. But why did they not include in the budgets all the expenses, since they knew that they were going to be carried out? Because if they did, they would be in breach of the commitment to increase spending agreed with the European Union. We warned you, and the AIReF warned you, but you denied it once more. Now no one can doubt your traps, Mr. Bolaños. With this decree they extend measures that ended on 31 December, some of which are copies of the proposals made by Mr Núñez Feijóo last April, and approve new measures, some of which are also copied from the People's Party, such as the reduction of VAT to basic foodstuffs. [[Applauds]] For this reason, we are not going to vote against a decree that includes proposals from the People's Party, a decree that the Government once again has to rectify, even if it is late, badly and with no dialogue with the opposition. He said that with this decree the Government rectifies, but it makes it late, bad and with hindrances. Late, because more and more Spaniards are unable to cope with the essential costs of light, heating, shopping basket, etc., while you refused to approve effective measures, and when you approve them, it differs your payment several months, casually until the eve of the May elections. Ladies and gentlemen, families could have saved already 353 million if Sánchez had lowered VAT on basic food, as we asked in September, and they would have recovered EUR 25 billion if Sánchez had adjusted inflation for the IRPF tranches - the exempt minimums, deductions and deductions - as we proposed almost a year ago. They do so badly because they simply copy only some of the proposals we have made to them in recent months. Moreover, it is incomprehensible that they do not commit themselves to improving the decree with at least some of the issues that we have been demanding of them: lowering the VAT on meat, fish and cans, deflating the IRPF to middle and low incomes, renewing the fuel bonus at least for the self-employed, or'returning the electoral cheques into immediate tax returns. [[Applauds]] Mr Bolaños, if you undertake today to include some of these measures in the bill, the People's Parliamentary Group will vote in favour. It's in your hand, Mr. Bolaños. They have done it wrong - I said - because it is not understandable that the other star measure of this decree, the extension of the aid of 200 euros, excludes nothing less than 7 million families who enter between 27,000 and 60,000 euros and that for you, Mr Bolaños, they are rich. You persist in the June error, thus mistreating the middle classes. Nor is it reasonable to give 200 euros to eat an entire family - less than 17 euros a month - while giving 400 euros so that young people who are eighteen years old can buy video games or go to the cinema. It's not reasonable. Look where you're looking, Mr. Bolaños. They have done so badly because their decree also leaves thousands of vessels out of aid to the fishing sector, as Mr Planas knows, which you have at your side. And what about the entry into force of the single-use plastic tax, which they refuse to postpone when it is a cry in the sector and will be passed on to the final product, many of which, in addition, Mr Bolaños, food, cancelling to a large extent the fall in VAT; a new tax that has been postponed by all our partners in the European Union, except you. They've done it late, they've done it wrong, and they've done it on the trail, too. Its way of proceeding over the last year, and before the popular party's extended hand, has always been the same: insult, displeasure and, ultimately, when reality surpasses them, copying some measures. It is an example of the fall in VAT on food, which you and your colleagues, Mr Bolaños, have rejected on a plan. They called us populists. They took out the smokescreen measure and even accused us of pretending, with the fall of VAT, to dismantle the welfare state and, finally, they had to copy it in half. Will you admit now that you are populist or that you were lying in September, Mr. Bolaños? Do you now intend to dismantle the welfare state or were you lying in October, Mr Bolaños? [[Applauds]] I beg you to ask for the floor and explain it to us. I am sure that what they were doing was lying, because the lie is their mark of identity, that of Mr Sánchez and that of his entire government, and today you have given good proof of that. It assumes that it has controlled inflation when the Spanish have suffered a price rise of 12,5 % since 2012; and if we talk about the shopping basket, more than 15 %. Because, Mr Bolaños, inflation adds up year after year, and closed 2021 at 6,5 and 2022 at 5,9, does not mean that prices are controlled, but that in the last two years prices have risen by 12,5%, and that is unbearable for families. And that which in the calculation of inflation you do not contemplate compensation for the Iberian exception, which does pay the families, nothing less than EUR 12 billion, Mr Bolaños. They assume to control inflation, and we have the bottom of it at 7%, the highest in the last century, and you take it out, as you also do with growth, but they hide that we have not recovered the GDP we had in 2019 and that we are the last of the 27 countries in the European Union. In other words, forget that we have not grown anything since 2019, Mr Bolaños, nothing. They boast of employment data, but they hide that we have not recovered the working hours we had in 2019, that is, there is less work than in 2019. They hide that we are leaders in unemployment and that, according to the experts, six hundred thousand workers with discontinuous fixed contract are not working. You say that we come out stronger, and the reality is that we have been impoverished in 1000 euros of wealth per inhabitant and in addition we have been indebted in 6500 euros to each Spanish. It prides itself on its good economic management and the reality is that we have less wealth than in 2019, but we pay a lot more taxes, especially the middle classes. We paid EUR 50 billion more than in 2019 and if we count social contributions, Mr Bolaños...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u55	Mr. De Olano, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u56	I'm finishing up, Madam President. If we count social contributions, it would be about 80 billion. This is the reality of the Spanish people and their social shield tells us that we have 13 million Spaniards at risk of poverty and almost four in poverty. I'm done, Madam President. I agree with you in your last statement, Mr Bolaños: 2023 is going to be a good year for the Spaniards, and it is going to be because we are going to leave behind the worst government of democracy. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u57	Thank you, Mr. De Olano. Mrs Mínguez García has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u58	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Olano, you forgot to mention the 20 cents of fuel subsidy. This is not the first time we have come up here to talk about a real decree of aid measures, and we are used to you voting one thing and saying and asking the contrary. Now it turns out that you would vote in favour of this royal decree, according to the media, if the 20 cents of fuel subsidy had been extended; however, in seven minutes it has been omitted to speak of those 20 cents, a measure that you voted against and now ask for the extension and that it be included in order to vote in favour. [[applause]] Neither in regulatory time nor in time of discount nor in extensions nor in penalties would we know what Mr Feijóo wants, because we already have 1147 excuses from the People's Party not to tie the shoulder as 1147 days ago from this legislature. [[applause]] Mr. De Olano, you speak of respect and lies, but do we respect independent bodies? Do we respect what the Bank of Spain, the International Monetary Fund or the European Commission say about our country's growth or do we trust the arguments of the People's Party, which lasts less than a sugar in a cup of coffee? Because according to the arguments of the People's Party we are in recession - I don't know if the spokesman, Cuca Gamarra, will tell us this afternoon - according to Mr. Juan Bravo we are in stagnation - said on December 22 - and according to all the independent official bodies Spain is growing above 5%. A repeated lie a thousand times becomes the argumentary of the People's Party, and that's what we're used to. You want us to talk about who's incompetent? When inflation went up, Mrs Gamarra said it was because we had the worst government in Europe. Now that you're down five points in five months, what do we say? What do we have for the best government in Europe? Or do you not want us to talk about this either, because you did everything to make us go wrong? That today there are fewer people working than in 2019? Today there are 1,300,000 people more affiliated with Social Security than in 2018; today the minimum wage is 1000 euros instead of 740. Why doesn't the People's Party like to see pensions increased, pensions increased or minimum living income increased? Because you did everything you did to make us go wrong, you did everything to the black in economics, and you have already run out of economic arguments to discuss. What's your alternative? If we woke up with her today! Sixty proposals for sanchismo. Not sixty proposals for young people, not sixty proposals for industry, not sixty proposals for business; sixty proposals for sanchismo. [[applause]] That's his economic policy. They show their weakness, show that they do not have a country project and show that they have no equipment or economic program to present to the Spaniards. And don't tell us that the government copies the measures of the People's Party. We are not going back to the pharmaceutical co-op; that was done by the People's Party. We are not going to take out the aid for dependence; that was done by the People's Party. Mr Olano, we are not going to allow the cut-off of supply to the most vulnerable; that was done by the People's Party. We are not going to abolish scholarships or raise university fees by 60%, because that was done by the People's Party. We are not going to reduce unemployment benefits; that was done by the People's Party. We are not going to empty the pension box, we are not going to condemn our pensioners or our young people to precariousness and no, we are not going to raise taxes, as the People's Party did. You are asking to lower the VAT on meat and fish. Mr. Olano, X Legislature, you were a deputy. Who increased VAT from 8 % to 10 % of meat, fish and cans? [[Applauds]] The People's Party did it. So no, with the current Government of Progress we are not going back to that time. And, Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, may the government copy you? Do you copy? It will be the People's Party, which follows him and has opened the doors of the institutions. The government is going to have it in front of it, in front of it to end what you intend to do in Castile and León, which is to end women's rights and freedoms. [[Applauds]] That is why you have the complicity of the People's Party and you are going to face the government. Some Members have come up to this rostrum to accuse the government that it is late and, I think, Mr Olano has said. Well, to be late, ladies and gentlemen, Spain goes first in class. Which country received the first disbursement of European funds? Spain. Which country received the second disbursement of European funds? Spain. Which country has already requested the third disbursement because it has the capacity to do so? Spain. Which country is the fastest growing in the European Union? Spain. [[Applauds]] Which country has the lowest inflation in the euro area? Spain. And at the Davos World Economic Forum, which political leader was expected to listen to him, to copy his economic successes? To the Spanish President, to President Pedro Sánchez. [[Applauds]] Today, Europe copies Spain, today, Europe copies the measures of the Spanish Government; with you, ten years ago, Spain was copying without hesitation and behind the scenes what we were being told in Europe, with cuts and austerity. That's the real difference. Ladies and gentlemen, if you really are concerned that the citizens will arrive at the end of the month, you will vote the royal decree without hesitation, without excuses; the minister has defined it, explained it and detailed it very well. There's the measurements. We know and are aware that the situation is complex, but today the Government is allocating €45 billion to protect the sectors most affected by the situation of war and to protect our families and the most vulnerable, the middle class and the working class of our country. We share together, now that a new year begins, that agenda of the Government: to protect and move forward. This is what this royal decree is about, and its validation remains in its hands. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mínguez. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 1/2023, OF 10 JANUARY, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE MATTER OF INcentIVATIVES TO WORK CONTRACTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF SOCIAL PROTECTION OF ARTIST PERSONS [[File number 130/000093]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u60	We turn to the following item on the agenda: Royal Decree Law 1/2023 of 10 January of urgent measures on incentives for employment and improvement of the social protection of artistic persons. In order to present the royal decree law, on behalf of the Government, the second Vice-President and Minister of Labour and Social Economy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u61	Good afternoon. On one occasion he wrote the Mexican poet José Emilio Pacheco: 'Only the tree touched by lightning / keeps the power of fire in its wood.' Sometimes adversity gives us that kind of strength and always, always, the defense of what belongs to us makes us manifestly better. Today I come to this rostrum of the Congress of Deputies to expose the contents of Royal Decree Law 1/2023. It is no longer a normative text; it contains in its precepts the sustained work of thousands of people, artists of our country, grouped in dozens of unions, associations and unions of professionals of cinema, theatre, dance, scriptwriters, technical personnel of sound, lighting, scenery, actors, actors, poets, musicians, singers, painters, all kinds of people. Thanks to you and to you, whom you accompany us today in the rostrum of this Chamber; thanks to you because this royal decree comes here today. We are here because you have never given up your rights and what belongs to you as working people. We are here because you believe in your work and the transcendental weight it has for our society, and thanks to this we have the opportunity to collectively write a new chapter in the great book of our labor conquests. Thank you very much. It has been a pride to have worked side by side with all of you, and I know that we will continue to do so in the future, because I know that much remains to be done. We also carry out a task that stems from the unanimity of this House and from the mandate of the Statute of the Artist, a normative framework that we are legally developing thanks to a model interministerial collaboration. My recognition also, mainly, for the team of the Ministry of Culture and Sport - Mr.Iceta, who accompanies us - and the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration. Together and together, we have laid the foundations for breaking a historic discrimination, an area of shadow that was intolerable, away from this sector, from its ability to generate wealth and employment, from the protection and recognition of due rights. Culture, like love or joy, is among the few heritages that grow by being segmented, that grow by being shared. That is your work, creativity, culture, and this is also the reason for our gratitude. In order to guarantee the right to culture, we must take care of, stimulate and protect the working conditions and the material possibility of artistic creation, contemplating conditions of intermittence and seasonality which are so often inherent in the sector and which have motivated an unjustified difference of treatment with respect to the rest of the working people, which we now endorse in this royal decree law. The first of the recognized rights is a historical claim of the collective of artistic persons: the creation of a specific unemployment benefit for persons who develop artistic and cultural activities, which also extends to workers who develop technical and auxiliary activities to artistic activity. It is a flat-rate contribution benefit that can be claimed when it is not possible to access the regular unemployment benefit or when it is suspended, in which case a contribution less than that established for the regular unemployment benefit is required, with 60 days in the previous 18 months or 180 days in the previous 6 years. This is an 80 % benefit from IPREM if the daily contribution base is less than EUR 60 and 100 % from IPREM if the daily basis is more than EUR 60. This unemployment benefit applies a regulatory correction that eliminates discrimination against artists. I would like to remind you that there have been many unemployment contributions that have been lost because the ordinary contributory unemployment benefit was often unattainable for workers in the sector. The second of the specific tasks for artistic persons is the right to reconcile their pension with the development of paid artistic activities. It is compatible with all retirement pensions, including non-contributory pensions if they do not exceed the inter-professional minimum wage, and allows them to be reconciled with any activity of an artistic nature and not only with activities protected by intellectual property, as was the case so far. It is a guarantee of great importance that will allow the pensioner to maintain a creative activity in function, that is, of his physical or anemic possibilities. This therefore leads to a gradual retirement as well as enhancing intergenerational exchange and the use of experience. In addition, a benefit is added for retired persons, particularly in sectors of activity such as the artistic sector, whose pensions have usually accused this intermittent work. The third of the contents is the establishment of a system of reduced social security contributions for self-employed persons. The Royal Decree Law allows for a reduction in the contribution base in the case of self-employed artists with annual income of less than 3000 euros, which also substantially reduces the contribution to 161 euros per month. It is a considerable reduction since, as you know, the minimum amount for this year in self-employment is 234 euros. This is a formula that will allow low-income self-employed artists to be integrated into the protective framework of Social Security, which will improve their living conditions and also their work. The part that Royal Decree Law 1/2023 devotes to people working in the artistic and cultural sector is complemented by three major future commitments for our country. Firstly, we will set up a committee to address the reform of the list of occupational diseases in order to ensure that the risks which also have special features in the artistic professions are adequately reflected. In turn, we will set up a working group for the adoption of specific social security measures for artistic workers to fully match the contribution and benefits to the characteristics of the sector. Finally, a series of tax benefits will be established applicable in the year 2024 on the occasion of the 15th edition of the itinerant Biennale Manifesto, which will be a platform of great interest to enhance the dialogue between art and citizenship, as well as support to Barcelona as a city committed to creation and innovation. In addition, I must point out that, although it is not included in this royal decree law, this very morning an amendment to the regulation on the income tax of natural persons was approved in the Council of Ministers to reduce the retention of the IRPF in compliance with the tax recommendations of the Artist's Statute. In particular, deductions for artistic activities in public spaces will be reduced from 15 % to 2 % and deductions for performance of activities of low economic value will be reduced from 15 % to 7 %. I continue to explain the part of the royal decree that regulates the new framework of incentives for employment. The revision of social security subsidies and bonuses in the area of employment was envisaged, as you know, in reform 7 of component 23, and the bulkiest part of this royal decree law is devoted to this. Since ancient times, and from different levels, it has been pointed out that the system of incentives for employment was deficient and was not being used either to create employment or much less to promote stable and quality jobs. The framework of incentives for recruitment in Spain has been growing in flood for decades, setting up a totally unstructured and complex system in which it was difficult to warn about the collectives and the situations that are being promoted. The effect was that of the widespread decrease in social security contributions without having a relevant effect on the employment rate or the stability rate and without affecting the improvement of the employment situation of the most vulnerable groups. The high number of recruitment incentives in our country has for many years been a sad feature, as are the high unemployment rate or the high figures of temporaryity. The incentives ended up being a pitiful excuse to the European Union and to the citizenry, which seemed to indicate that something was being done against unemployment and precariousness. What we are now trying to do is to combat the dead weight of bonuses - recruitments take place without the bonus being involved in the decision, acting simply, as you know, as a reduction in costs - and also the so-called Mateo effect, which led to employment aid being received by those who needed it least, with consequent inefficiency from the perspective of public expenditure. Now what we do is follow the recommendations of the AIReF itself and the European Commission's country-specific recommendations to correct these effects. We therefore needed a coherent and efficient system of incentives, which involved scrupulously identifying the groups and situations worthy of encouragement, promoting, in line with everything we do, stable and quality jobs. It was also necessary to unify regulations, requirements and criteria, and that is what the present royal decree has done systematically and effectively, which constitutes a system of incentives which for the first time in our country's history can be called, indeed, a system because it is homogeneous and establishes, as you know, a very important thing, an evaluation mechanism. Incentives that do not work, no doubt, will be reviewed, not as was the case so far. Instead of calculating bonuses by percentages, as was the case before, we set fixed lump sums, which are more transparent and, above all, less regressive, compared to the previous model, in which the bonus was proportional to the amount of salary, so that the more wages were received, the greater the bonus, which caused regressive effects. The new incentive framework obliges the contract to remain in force for at least three years. It is a fundamental requirement that cooperates in the generation of stable and quality employment and that it is responsible for the public nature of the funds supported by the system. Firm principles of impeccability are also laid down. It is not only a question of meeting the formal requirements, as it had so far, but also of certifying commitment to stable employment and a healthy economy. And that goal of social responsibility has another important measure in this royal decree law, which is not to allow relocations. This will mean that, from this moment on, they will have to return all the amounts stopped entering with the surcharge and the corresponding interest of delay for the contracts made during the four years preceding the transfer of the production, if necessary, out of our country. Quality employment is also promoted in the present Royal Decree-Law because the new system is built to enhance in a consistent and clear way the indefinite and full-time work. The system is clearly structured around the indefinite employment contract, which is strongly reinforced both when it is an initial indefinite contract and when it comes from the conversion of temporary contracts. The full-time employment contract is also vigorously enhanced. This provides for a proportional reduction in incentives in cases of part-time work, but also prevents access to them if the part-time contract involves a service delivery time of less than 50 % of the full-time working day. The systematic nature of the new incentive mechanism has an important virtuality that - I think - must be highlighted. From now on, future rules on recruitment incentives must respect these principles of coherence and systematicity and, in addition, they must be integrated into the framework contained in this royal decree without deploying specific and disconnected rules. If you want to observe today the amount of rules we have to study to see, to gauge the level of incentives in our country, you will see that it is a really complex task. We have corrected this today, and from now on we must follow this methodology. It is also a new framework of systematic incentives in relation to other current labour standards that are reconfiguring the overall framework of employment policies. Thus, the new incentive framework is the essential complement to the new employment law under parliamentary procedure. Having already entered the exhibition of the beneficiary groups, I believe that the first one to which I must refer is that of persons working with disabilities. I would like to highlight the way in which this text promotes the work of people with functional diversity, maintaining the incentives recognized and strengthened by the special employment centres, but also establishes special mechanisms for the integration and reintegration into the ordinary labour market of people with functional diversity. The system of incentives for the recruitment of disabled persons has so far been very effective and therefore it was essential to keep it in its entirety, but it was also necessary to reconfigure and systematize the system of reinstatement following a permanent incapacity in order to enhance not only the reintegration into the same undertaking and the same post, but also in a different position and in a different undertaking when the worker was over 55 years of age. In this way, tools are introduced, I think powerful, to recover workers who are able to work, avoiding their definitive expulsion from the labour market, especially when they are older, and also to increase the labour and social integration of people who have gone through long illness processes that have already concluded. Specific provisions are also made for the termination of contracts for persons with disabilities in special employment centres which are now serving in a regular enterprise. These are forecasts that encourage the normalization of work and the real and effective reintegration of people with functional diversity. For the same purpose, subsidies are also provided for the recruitment of disabled persons to replace other disabled persons who are temporarily disabled. The framework of incentives for the recruitment of persons with disabilities is complemented by an express reference to the White Paper on Employment and Disability, which, as you know, is being held at this time and whose conclusions will be crucial for development, development and improvement. I think it is important to highlight the good design of the mechanisms for encouraging the recruitment of persons with functional diversity contained in this royal decree law. The maintenance and stable integration of persons with disabilities into the regular labour market has been fully achieved by recognizing and assessing their labour and social contribution without paternalism and without exclusion. This efficient design has been made possible thanks to the work we have done with CERMI and ONCE, which I would also like to thank today for their work and their presence in this forum and, of course, to thank them for the work they have done to improve the regulation that we validate today and their ability to reach agreements, because also here the dialogue has been successful in an important agreement on incentives for people with disabilities and which takes into account especially those who have greater difficulties in accessing the labour market. [[Applause.- The second Vice-President and Minister of Labour and Social Economy, Díaz Pérez, gives a kiss to the guest gallery]] In particular, persons with cerebral palsy, persons with mental health disorders, intellectual disabilities or autism spectrum disorders with a recognised degree of disability equal to or greater than 33%, also persons with physical or sensory disabilities with a recognised degree of disability equal to or greater than 65%. The second of the priority incentive groups in Royal Decree Law 1/2023 are women workers, and the second is that of workers with conciliation responsibilities. In this way, the commitment to gender mainstreaming, which is expressly set out in the Organic Law on Effective Equality between Women and Men of 2007, and also in the Treaty on European Union itself, is implemented. Following this principle of gender cross-cutting, higher bonuses for indefinite recruitment have been established for women than for men in situations that we value as emblematic. Let us give examples: the case of long-term unemployed women or the case of women temporary workers in the field who can see their contract transformed into an indefinite form. The aim has been to review the system to maintain and strengthen incentives for the recruitment of women in situations where gender stereotypes of serious impact appear most strongly, as I have also said for older people and, of course, for work in the field. I would like to highlight the configuration of bonuses for the indefinite recruitment of women in situations of special vulnerability, such as gender-based violence, sexual violence, trafficking in human beings, labour sexual exploitation and, also, in the case of women in prostitution contexts. This is a very broad definition of vulnerability situations, which will be verified in an appropriate and flexible manner through the accreditation report of the relevant public administrations. The system of incentives to promote reconciliation and also women's health during pregnancy and lactation has also been revised. They are incentives that serve a dual purpose, because they also have, for the first time, as beneficiaries of young people. It is a fairer system than part of a fundamental principle: maternity and paternity are not a cost for which employers must be paid, maternity and paternity is an eligible right for those who wish to do so. Now, there is an attempt to reorient bonuses to stimulate the entry of young people into the labour market, while at the same time ensuring non-regressive conciliation rights. The mechanism has been to provide bonuses for the recruitment of young people to replace the person holding a job who was absent due to conciliation or risk during pregnancy or lactation. I think it is important to stress that the substitutions for conciliation are very appropriate for the integration of young people into work, since they allow access to professional experience through work with decent working conditions, without enhancing precarious work, as has so many times happened in our country. Precisely, the group of young workers has a special relevance in the new system of recruitment incentives, especially those under the age of 30, who will observe that they are present throughout the text of Royal Decree Law 1/2023. One of the new incentives - and I think it is very interesting - is the bonus for the indefinite recruitment of young people with low qualifications attached to the Youth Guarantee system. This is a peer-reviewed incentive to promote vocational education and training at all levels, both in education and in the workplace. Facilitating first contact with the world of work is essential to create professional and vital expectations for people, to help them channel career and training paths that allow them to have hope in the future. It is therefore particularly interesting, together with incentives for young people without training, incentives that effectively promote their quality training. The incentives for formative recruitment have been revised in Royal Decree 1/2023 to accommodate them to the new formative contract - Article 11 of Royal Decree Law 32/2021, labour reform - but, in addition, specific incentives are provided to compensate the company for the training effort being made. Training recruitment should be able to generate professional expectations in students and should also serve to meet business expectations. The new training contract that was established with the labour reform constitutes the framework for meeting these expectations, and it was necessary to accompany it with a contractual incentive mechanism that would guarantee these expectations. This I believe we have reflected in this royal decree law. The incentive of training is supplemented in this rule by a specific bonus for research staff with a predoctoral contract. Science and research should be key future professionals for young people, and it is therefore necessary that pre-doctoral contracts in research entities have adequate benefits to encourage commitment to doctoral training in research entities. The main feature of this system of recruitment incentives is that it is strongly based on stable and quality procurement, with particular attention to the transformation of temporary contracts into indefinite contracts, configuring bonuses for a number of cases where this transformation is particularly valuable. Thus, the transformation into indefinite is improved when it comes to a relief contract, regardless of the size of the company. The bonus has therefore been extended to all enterprises and not only, as was the case before, to those of less than fifty workers, thus favouring generational succession and avoiding the amortization of retirement jobs. Bonuses are also provided in the case of conversions of temporary contracts into indefinite contracts or for incorporation as partners or partners in cooperatives or public limited companies by persons engaged in training practices in them. This is a special bonus that strengthens the social economy and also promotes training in cooperatives and in labour societies. You will see that Royal Decree 1/2023 devotes special attention to the promotion of the social economy. I would like to thank the experience of the Euskadi groups and also of the Group of the European People's Party, which have made very important contributions in this area. This incentive system incorporates, for the first time in recruitment, an unprecedented incentive to enable workers in a social economy entity to capitalise on the unemployment benefit in order to acquire the status of partners. It is an incentive that allows social economy entities to be strengthened with new capital and also allows more working people to enter the dynamics of the social economy. The system set out in this royal decree is complemented by specific incentives for specific groups that deserve our particular attention. The main group with the greatest difficulties of employability in our country are long-term unemployed persons, persons working in integration companies or persons over 45 years of age. Measures are also put in place to promote certain sectors such as tourism outside the high season or also in certain sectors of activity in Ceuta and Melilla. In short, the system of incentives for recruitment set out in this Royal Decree-Law is designed to contribute decisively to the consolidation of a stable labour market, committed to quality training and to the full integration of all workers. In conclusion, I should like to refer to the adequacy of the procedure of the Royal Decree-Law, to the adherence of the extraordinary and urgent need required by article 86 of the Constitution for the adoption of this rule. We are faced with a rule that, both in its parent content and in its secondary content, directly connects with the fulfilment of Spain's commitments to the European Union to comply with the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. I would also like to point out that we are clearly faced with a rule of a structural and non-provisional nature which, of course, solves current problems, but which looks to the future and which I believe has come to stay. A feature which, as the Constitutional Court has acknowledged on several occasions, does not diminish its extraordinary and urgent need. This concludes, ladies and gentlemen. Royal Decree 1/2023 is a rule that guarantees and strengthens this stable and quality work path that, collectively as a country, we have initiated, but it is also a rule that enshrines one of our most valuable heritages: the work of artistic people. We are highlighting its important contribution to our country; contribution also in economic terms, but - they will allow me - above all, contribution in values and freedoms. Culture and artistic work must be a vibrant reason of state, a political affirmation, an indefinite contract with the future of our society which, with joy and pride, we come today to subscribe. The work of artistic people means saying in the face of silence, knowing in the face of fear and ignorance. We need that cultural work, that whole flow of effort and talent, because I am convinced that it broadens our democracy and because it makes us better as a country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, with respect for the unanimity that we have seen in this House, in the Sub-Commission on the Status of the Artist, and thanking you for the previous tasks, in particular of the Minister of Culture and Minister Escrivá, I ask you to vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree law. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u62	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Mr Martínez Oblanca, first of all, has the floor on the joint parliamentary group's position.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, Madam Vice-President, second and Minister for Labour and Social Economy. Once again, because of the undue urgency and extraordinary need that characterizes the legislature, the Government brings a real decree law that is hardly a leniency in the face of the failure to comply with the political commitments made with the adoption, by the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies, on September 6, 2018, of the report of the Sub-Commission for the elaboration of a Statute of the Artist. It should be pointed out that the report, with 75 important measures, was unanimously endorsed, as you recalled, including your vote, Mrs Díaz, Mr Sánchez's and also mine and that of many others, but that, after four and a half years since then, it has been developed with droplets and with absolute parsimony, it would be said that by fascicles. The measures that the Vice-President has explained respond only to a part of those commitments on which all the spokespersons at the time stressed and congratulated themselves, but which, when translated into bold and sounding decisions, have been left in very little, both in the budgetary and legislative aspects. Ladies and gentlemen, with my vote in favour of the validation of this royal decree I would like to call on the Government to respond decisively to the whole of that magnificent report, because I believe that its conclusions are fully in force. In the explanation of this regulation, the Vice-President has referred to issues relating to incentives for the employment and social protection of artists, but it remains to be done in the area of taxation, as well as in the calculation of so-called irregular returns, deduction of expenditure and reduced application of tax rates. I am pleased with the tax decisions adopted this morning in the Council of Ministers, but there is still a great deal of work for the Ministry of Finance, also for the Ministry of Culture. And for Social Security, in this case on account of the collection of a public pension and its compatibility with income for intellectual property rights and creative activities. I conclude by recalling that in his investiture the President of the Government explicitly committed himself here - as the Journal of Sessions reports - to complete the development of the Artist's Statute in order to improve the conditions of creators and creators. It has been three years since Mr Sánchez's diaphanous commitment and the subject is still pending. This has nothing to do with modeling, Madam Vice President. In short, if you are sincere in your desire to advance in the protection of artists' rights, please review the excellent report approved in this House, coordinate yourself, engage without delay and without pretexts in the Artist's Statute and work hard to ensure that its implementation takes effect in this XIV Legislature, and not within convenient time limits for the Government and its electoral interests. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. For the same parliamentary group, Mrs Fernández Pérez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-President, I have listened to you carefully, truly, and when you speak of a structural measure that is implemented by a decree, wrong, wrong. That is to say, I totally agree with the previous rapporteur, with Isidro. The Artist's Statute? Totally agree, to death with it, we will support it, but the measures are just and come four years late, four years late and by decree. I believe that the issue of urgency, of the pandemic, of necessity, has already given much of itself to continue to govern through decrees. The least we can ask is for it to be treated as a bill by September, which is when it has to be implemented, for civil society to do what it has to do in the regulations. That we can't keep getting laws like churros and things out of order! Of course we are with the artists, I will not tire of saying in this rostrum that treating equals is an injustice, and they were claiming that their special singularity and intermittent hiring had recognized labor rights as well as many other sectors. Well, we applauded it, there was unanimity, and once again the Socialist Party takes on something that was unanimous and complicates it, and mixes it with the recruitment bonuses, recruitment bonuses that I totally agree with. And again I have heard him say - wait because I have even noted the words he said -: The recruitment bonuses have become a sad peculiarity and a dead weight. Of course, the bonuses you don't like; the ones you like, yes. There are many modifications to the bonuses with which we fully agree, but recently I have met with businesswomen, women, who put the accent on a danger. I know that motherhood and paternity is a right, I know, and I know that now women and men share paternity and maternity leave. But to remove the 100 percent bonus from child care replacements, unless a woman under the age of 30 is hired... One hundred per cent is removed, Madam Vice-President, from one hundred per cent of the bonus to 366 euros, where there was one hundred per cent there are 366 euros and it is linked to women under 30 years of age. All right! And the women over 45 and 50, who must also be collected with the world of work? And they take off the bonuses. When I was studying the career they said to me: Mary, reality goes ahead of the legislation. But it's the first time that legislation goes back to reality! You want me to tell you what's being said in social courts? It is sentenced that single-parent families, which are 90% women, can accumulate both permits. I mean, do you know the weak favor you do to hiring young women by taking away this bonus, which is neither a dead weight nor an isolated peculiarity? Sometimes it gives me the impression that you legislate for an ideal world that has nothing to do with the real world, and is withdrawn from the bonus in the end what comes to favor is lack of birth, lack of reconciliation and lack of employability of young women who can have children. I will use it to tell you that the least that can be done is to process this as a bill, so that civil society, through its representatives, can amend, contribute and decide, because that is what is called sovereignty. That it is good enough to mock the legislative systems based on a coup d'état! I also use - if you give me time - to tell you that this decree opens a very important door to Ceuta and Melilla when it comes to having specific bonuses. Remember also the Canary Islands and the specificity it has, which is ultraperipheral, island, remote and with the highest unemployment rate in Spain. Remember also to make this type of bonuses. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u66	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u67	Sweep on, good afternoon. The vice president has begun the presentation of the royal decree with a quote from a Mexican author, and I am going to resort to an Argentine film - The illustrious citizen, is called - in which the central character releases one of those phrases that leave you stuck to the armchair. The phrase is: 'The best cultural policy is to have none'. This is what the protagonist says, who is a renowned writer, and explains it later. It's a little paradoxical, but in the end you understand. It is understood that what it means is that the State does not have to defend culture, culture itself is sufficient to defend itself; what the State, a Government, has to do is to respect, to respect culture. That would be enough. What this writer is trying to say is that we must radically change the way culture is dealt with from the governments, stop seeing or treating culture as a useless expense in some cases or, on the other end, as that magical treasure that must be preserved, that we must take care of, as if it were not something that should permeate everyday life. In short, that the cultural must be treated as any other productive sector of the economy, capable of generating goods and services, as an economic and socially profitable activity, which is ultimately what it is. Although it is true that the greatest contribution of culture will never and cannot be understood only from the data and statistical figures of what it represents, for example, in GDP, because its greater value is intangible, it is the contribution that it gives to social and identity construction, to what we are and to what we are called to be as peoples, as countries, in short, to our presence in the world. I make this introduction because sometimes we fall into the trap of talking about culture as something so ethereal that we see that in reality it does not stop being a sector in which, as in all others, rights are indispensable for a complete society to be built, because defending culture, defending artists is more than linking beautiful phrases and threading definitions that can flatter the representatives of this sector, the artistic one, who today accompanies us from this gallery of guests; defending art, defending culture is something far more prosaic and less romantic than what is usually said in speeches. To defend culture from governments, to respect it, therefore, if we take into account the definition of the writer of the film he has quoted before, it is above all a question of defending labour rights, of defending the labour protection of a sector such as the artistic sector, in which oscillations and professional insecurity are irremediable. Therefore, and without any romanticism of any kind, I believe that the measures adopted in this royal decree law in relation to the Status of the Artist should be positively valued. And it is fair to acknowledge that it is good news that this royal decree has brought to the sector. I focus on three of the measures approved by this royal decree law, which are crucial and vital to the sector. The first, the compatibility of artistic work on their own and others with retirement, was something totally necessary to correct the unjust situations that had been created so far with retired creators and artists and that had long needed a complete solution to enable the perception of other income beyond those linked to intellectual property rights. The second is the unemployment benefit specific to persons working in the cultural sector, whether they are artists, technicians or assistants. And the third, the special quote for self-employed artists with low incomes, in which I stop, because here - also here - there is room for improvement, as in the previous ones, but here, above all, what there is is an urgent need for modification. The new fee base for self-employed artists with low income implies a fee to be paid per month of 161 euros, i.e. 1932 euros per year when the artist does not exceed 3000 euros of annual income. I repeat: it means paying an annual fee of 1932 euros when you do not exceed 3000 euros of income; that is, without adding expenses such as travel, subsistence allowance, etc. I do not think it is necessary to argue too much to see that it is necessary and urgent to change this issue. We are confident, because we have been told, that the issues that still hang on to a fragile thread, such as that of the contribution of low-income self-employed persons, or other issues, such as the recovery of previous modalities for compatibility that previously existed and have now surprisingly disappeared from the legal text, or also, in our view, the necessary extension of compatibility to the collection of contributory pensions, permanent disability and non-contributory disability, which we have already raised, are resolved satisfactorily in the near future. That is why we have requested that this decree be used as a bill, because there is room for improvement. And if it is not in the bill, it will improve and rectify these issues in one of the two commissions that also creates this decree. The ministries concerned - Labour, Culture and Social Security - know our proposals and we hope that there will be agreements and that they will serve to end the definitive sewing of the Artist's Statute, because this royal decree paves the way for that status, which will be the suit that in some way dignifies the sector. Let us hope that soon it will be a reality, because it will be a great news that will not only affect a wide variety of trades that make up this cosmos of the artistic world, but will also be positive in the everyday life of all. I have not said that, but, of course, we will vote in favour. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u69	Thank you, President. I left it on. We are faced with a real decree with two parts, of course, clearly different: on the one hand, the regulation of a series of measures to promote employment through subsidies in social security quotas and, on the other, measures that come to develop the Artist's Statute. With regard to employment promotion measures, we have to say, as the Vice-President has said, that in 2019 the AIReF has already carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the recruitment and entrepreneurship incentive system in Spain from 2012 to 2018, and it has already advanced that this period was characterized by a large regulatory dispersion and a generalisation of incentives to the whole population, incentives that have remained in force so far for the most part, but that, of course, if labour procurement has been modified by the labour reform to provide more stability for workers and reduce temporary recruitment, it is logical that a complete reform of the existing system of bonuses and reductions should now be addressed in order to adapt it to that new contractual reality of the labour market. All this, moreover, within the framework of active employment policies to improve the quality of employment, the professional promotion of the employed, the promotion of job creation in the social economy and the promotion of the recruitment of unemployed, especially the most vulnerable. Therefore, these recruitment incentives focus on indefinite contracts with priority care providers, long-term unemployed, over 45 years of age, young people and women, as well as the transformation of certain temporary contracts into indefinite contracts. However, minister, let me tell you that it is somewhat curious that this reform has been addressed through a real decree law, rather than including these measures in the employment law being processed and that it could have given rise at least to a greater debate about what we are dealing with today, and even through the preliminary draft law regulating these incentives developed by your ministry and which has now been relegated by this decree. In short, this royal decree law provides for a series of incentives to hire financed with reductions or bonuses in social contributions to avoid this current fragmentation and dispersion, placing, as I have said, the focus on the groups that have the greatest difficulties in accessing a job, as it cannot be otherwise. And, in turn, new requirements are added that companies must meet in order to be beneficiaries, including the corresponding equality plan, the maintenance of employment for three years and the prohibition of business relocation; amendments are also to be revised so that they can be assessed in such a way that they can be adapted and modified as established. We appreciate this because, so far, the bonuses have been the gateway to the labour market, but they have not been the gateway to staying in that labour market. I believe that this decree seeks to change this too, without forgetting that stability and quality in employment are only ensured through training, through training and in accordance with market requirements. Yesterday we heard - and today we have also done so here - that this decree runs counter to the employability of women because it modifies the bonus of maternity replacement contracts, which goes from a 100 % bonus to a fixed amount. It is not eliminated and, moreover, it is for a certain group. In this sense, I must say that in my group we do not understand it that way. Maternity is not a determining factor that limits our employability. The employability of women can be limited and complicated, that is, because of the lack of co-responsibility in the care of minors, and for this reason paternity and maternity permits have been equated, with equal and non-transferable permits, which are steps that help to eliminate these barriers in women's work careers. Now, if we understand that this barrier still exists, let me tell you that it is not going to come down with a 100% replacement bonus, because the truth is that you should know that these barriers are mainly based on sexist roles and stereotypes, and for this you need another series of instruments, starting with education and following co-responsibility and conciliation, in addition to all public policies in favour of equality. On the other hand, the decree contains three measures related to the Status of the Artist widely claimed, given the peculiarity of the activity that they carry out and that have caused problems of precariousness and lack of continuity of work, and that the COVID was also responsible for demonstrating. First, the special unemployment benefit for artists and technicians in the performing, audiovisual and musical arts, which responds to the intermittent nature of the cultural labour market and, in particular, the difficulties they faced in accessing unemployment during those periods when they were unemployed and the difficulty of having a number of listed days required to obtain the general benefit. Secondly, the improvement of the compatibility of the retirement pension with all artistic activity and not only with the artistic creation activity that generates copyright. And, third, a special contribution for self-employed artists whose annual net returns do not exceed 3000 euros. Measures all of them that we consider necessary, which, moreover, my group already endorsed when we signed those 75 points for an artist's status in 2018, and which gives, therefore, response in part or paves the way for that status. Yet, it is true, that there is still a way to go to address this specificity of the sector, a sector marked with many lapses of time without proposals or calls to work, in short, a sector with an intermittence that is not predeterminable, as with other discontinuous work such as work at sea or agriculture, in which, given its seasonal nature, it is predictable when it is going to be possible to work and when it is not. Having said that, and despite the fact that we are going to vote in favour of this royal decree law, it is necessary to warn us that there is no justification for the urgency of most of the measures, the clearest of which is the particular delay in the implementation of the measures to promote employment, which, according to the thirteenth additional provision, entered into force on 1 September 2003 and which should allow for their parliamentary drafting. We believe that nine months for its entry into force somewhat contradicts the extraordinary and urgent need. Finally, we understand that there are measures formulated with perhaps somewhat erroneous premises that should be corrected through their parliamentary procedure. I would like to give an example of incentives for the recruitment of R & D & i staff in a rule that focuses on vulnerable or low-employability groups, which may have distorted the sense of incentive in a way that is empty of content. Being Royal Decree 1/2023 a decree that already has in essence a negative impact on the bonus for R+D+i, by linking it to the hiring and activity and not only to the activity as until now, the exclusion that prevents bonus to a person who had a previous indefinite contract makes the incentive hardly applicable. Also, as regards the need for companies to have an equality plan in order to be able to benefit from the established bonuses, I would like to remind you that this issue is still to be resolved for cooperatives, because they cannot register their equality plans in the register established for that purpose and, therefore, they will hardly be able to benefit from these bonuses that are regulated today. Although my group has tried to solve this problem in the draft general state budgets, it is true that it, as I said, could not be dealt with because it is a non-budgetary matter, but we hope that it can now be resolved. Minister, we have nine months to solve this problem and thus extend to the cooperative world the possibility of articulating the legal recognition of the deployment of equality plans and enabling their public recognition in order to be able to join the measures, if necessary, taken by the various public bodies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mr Díaz Gómez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u71	Thank you, President. Today they bring here late, very late, much needed reforms for artists and creators. Highlighting the fact that a special unemployment benefit is created for workers in the cultural and artistic sectors; lowering the requirements for receiving the unemployment benefit - something very necessary in the sector -; allowing income for artistic activities while receiving the pension - this was very necessary and not only necessary in this cultural industry, in this sector -; allowing income for artistic activities and including a reduced contribution for self-employed artists with low incomes; encouraging stable employment - which is also one of the major demands of the sector -; hiring, which is one of the issues that we have very pending, provides information, training and accompaniment throughout the process, and improves and encourages conciliation, measures also very necessary in a sector that, many times, for reasons of trial hours, is faced with multiple vicisitudes in order to be able to reconcile. [[The lady]] At the same time, intellectual property could also be further protected, something in which we often find problems when we introduce amendments in this area. In short, there are many measures and very necessary ones that are brought here today in this royal decree law. In addition, I would like to thank the participants during the meetings of the Commission on the Status of the Artist for their dedication, all the information and many proposals they have made to that Commission in preparing this report. I would also like to thank the creators and artists and the industry in the cultural sector in general who have endured the worst years, the worst time of all their careers during the pandemic, when those who live in the public had no public. Now, the worst part. Today they bring us here a royal decree law with measures that were agreed in 2018. I had the honour of being one of the speakers of the Statute of the Artist along with my colleague Félix Álvarez. That is to say, four years ago this House drew up this report. Four years ago. Today they bring here a royal decree law that is the tool to solve urgent and emerging issues. I mean, they don't hide much. This Government specializes in bridging, routing and avoiding the mechanisms that Spanish democracy has established to control the Executive. I believe that, in addition to what, you have to explain to us why this way, you have to explain why the proposals that came out of Congress unanimously four years ago today are implemented by a rule for unforeseen or extraordinarily urgent. Did you surprise them with the artist's status report? Did they find it in a drawer where the dream of the righteous slept? Why is four years later urgent? How many artists or cultural companies would have endured the pandemic better if they had disposed of the measures that are adopted here today? When artists, creators and cultural industries are most in need, these measures have not been taken. Why? Because it wasn't election year. What have you broken? Bad luck, it wasn't election year. That you had to abandon your project? To have started it in election year. That you had to fire your workers? Ah, having been foresight and having planned the election calendar. And some will ask themselves: But is there any way that the Spanish Government will speed up my needs and legislate what I need? Yes, there is a way for the government to help you: dear artist, dear creator, become a nationalist. What do you want to have public funding for your project? Become a nationalist, let your project not be in Spanish, do it in any other language and you will be within a quota that the government guarantees you. That you want to set up a sports selection and travel abroad? Make yourself a nationalist Basque surfer. Iceta has found vestiges that surfing was already practiced with stone boards in the Pleistocene in Basque territory, and if sport is practiced by a nationalist it is more sport. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u72	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u73	I propose to the Ministry of Culture the following institutional campaign: Spanish Creator, if you want your laws to be done quickly, if you want privileges, if you want to live better, become nationalist; you will have subsidies, you will see the world, and if you want to bind it a little bit and prove how very nationalist you are, the Socialist Party will send the councillors of the PSC of Pineda del Mar to expel the police so that you can demonstrate Tunationalism, your coupophilia and burn some urban furniture. But woe!, Spanish artist, if you are not a nationalist, bad luck: look for life. By the way, the Police Expulsion Brigade remains operational and remains in the PSC. One of these heads is also a lieutenant mayor in Pineda de Mar and surely Mr. Zaragoza, who is from the area, has coffee with him. Mr Zaragoza, the next time you come across one of these cuckolds, one-year-old cuckolds condemned for expelling police officers from hotels in Catalonia, militants from your party, from their memories of the liberal party in Spain and tell them that we will work so that people like them do not have a place in the institutions. What an indignity to keep guys like that inside your party and in governments! Let us now look at the urgency of the measure that brings us here today. The royal decrees laws are designed for cases of extraordinary and urgent need, which is hardly compatible with the dates of entry into force stipulated in this royal decree law. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u74	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u75	This is extremely urgent, but the first measures come into force on 1 July and others in September. It's the relative urgency. The climax of absurdity is also reached when the Government directly invokes the principle of legal certainty to justify these dates. But not content with this obvious incongruity, the Government strives to parapet on various excuses to justify the use of the royal decree law. A little Sesame Quarter: look, when something is structural, it doesn't go in a real law decree. In a royal decree law goes what is short-term. Structural, no decree law; short-term, yes decree law. Well, the working conditions of the artists are not short-term, they are structural, with which, structural does not go in decree law. That is why, in its explanatory statement to justify urgency, the Executive says - I am opening quotes -: 'The possible structural character of the problem which is intended to be addressed does not exclude that this problem can at a given moment become an event of extraordinary and urgent necessity'. I close quotes. Is the problem structural or is it not structural? Because if it's structural, it can't go into a royal decree law. Thus, it is alluded directly to the extraordinary and urgent need and, attentive - I am opening quotes - 'for reasons and objectives of political opportunity'. In other words, the urgency that this royal decree law brings here is the extraordinary and urgent need of Pedro Sánchez. That's what they have here, because it's election year. What a shame!, what a pity!, what a more tortuous way to use legislative mechanisms! Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u76	Thank you, Mr. Díaz. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u77	Thank you, Madam President, Minister. Good afternoon. Given the importance of what was addressed in this Royal Decree-Law, it should have been possible to discuss and amend it by presenting itself as a bill, even more so when, despite the extraordinary and urgent need justifying the mechanism of the Royal Decree-Law, an entry into force is established by September 2023. We are concerned about a new regulation of recruitment incentives that causes the recent non-derogation of labour reform, which, under new contractual forms, increases flexibility and labour instability, facilitates the extension of low wages and advances in precariousness. For lack of time, I will only point out two issues. One relates to the stability of binding indefinite contracts. In Galicia alone, the completion of probationary contracts and, therefore, without any compensation, has grown by almost 800 %, from 231 dismissals in June 2021 to 2088 in June 2022. The other question concerns the salaries of the youngest, who still do not reach a decent minimum, and the new proposals will not, in our view, serve to correct any of this. On the contrary, we believe that the regulation requiring aid to be repaid in the event of relocation is correct, not that it is limited to countries outside the European Union. Finally, I would like to make a reference to the part which regulates the compatibility of artistic activities with the pension, which, although it is progressing, continues to leave out, for example, those officials who took up early retirement, which we consider necessary to correct. In any case, as we make a positive assessment of many of the measures, we will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego Candaimil. For the same group, Mr Miquel i Valentí has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u79	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, let me say hello to the collectives and platforms that accompany us today to collect what we have been sowing for years. Ladies and gentlemen, when this House approved in 2018 the recommendations linked to the Sub-Commission on the Status of the Artist, it did so almost forty years after UNESCO urged States and countries to develop a package of measures to protect a group that was already vulnerable in itself, such as the creative sector and the sector of the cultural world. However, we approved - late, but we approved - these seventy-five recommendations which - as has been said here today - came out unanimously approved and which have been handed over by fascicles, after the first delivery of Minister Guirao. First of all, I wanted to thank you, Vice-President and Minister, for bringing us this royal decree today. Needless to say, as a member of this House, surely the royal decree is not the measure I like most to process a text of these characteristics, but it is true that what was already urgent four years ago today is much more urgent. Therefore, we welcome that, even in this way - and we have already denounced here several times that we do not like this method - this measure arrives. I would like to welcome some of the measures incorporating the statute, such as the reduced quota, the flat rate and the compatibility of the retirement pension with self-employment. But there are issues, Vice-President and Minister, on which we would like to continue to work. That is why, of course, we will vote in favour of validation, but we will also vote in favour of processing as a bill, because we believe that it is better, that it can be more ambitious on some issues and we would like to discuss it with you when the time comes. I end by thanking all the collectives and members who accompany us in this House for their work during these years. Without you this would not have been possible. We will continue to work so that the cultural sector can work better and this is a matter of state. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Miquel and Mr. Valentí. For the same group, Mr Pagès i Massó has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u81	Good afternoon, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice-President. Intermitence at work, job insecurity and, therefore, economic, months with zero income, social unprotectiveness, that is, the precariousness of cultural work, all this is the norm for a collective, that of musicians, actors and actresses, technicians and creators who parapet under the artist's legal umbrella. The list of shortcomings in their employment and social situation is inconclusive: problems for the recognition of occupational diseases; social security contributions inadequate to work and economic realities; one working day is the result of weeks of preparation and years of training; difficulties in receiving maternity leave, and a long number of precarious, forgotten and regulatory errors that erupt during the long months of total cessation of cultural activity caused by the COVID pandemic. The answer to this scenario, the royal decree law that is now occupying us, is fragmentary, incomplete and mixed. It is not born out of this Government's special sensitivity to the situation of artists, it is late and, as you have said, as a umpteenth royal decree and as a consequence of the demands of the Next Generation Plan and the European Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, which require the adoption of measures for a dynamic, resilient and inclusive labour market. There is a legislative response, yes, but it is a response called for by Europe and, above all, fragmentary, incomplete and late. Call it what they call it from the government, we are before a more Macedonian decree law, which mixes issues that should be dealt with separately and not before a true Statute of the Artist. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u82	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u83	With regard to unemployment benefit, we recognize the longer duration of the grant and the flexibility of access to the benefit, as well as the reduction of the necessary contribution days, in line with the intermittent work reality of artists, although there are still gaps, for example, for plastic artists or writers. With regard to the special contribution for low-income self-employed people, we have to move the complaint from the representatives of the sector present here. The maximum threshold of EUR 3000 for applying the new reduced contribution is too low to be operational. This cap should be eliminated, as under the regime of street vendors, or, in any case, widened loosely. On the other hand, the share of 164 euros per month amounts to a total of 1970 euros per year, so the net profits, reducing - as has already been said - management expenses, subsistence allowance and travel, are minimal. We consider that the decree is improveable in the compatibility of retirement pensions with artistic activity with economic returns. There is also a lack of flexibility, for example, in adapting the retirement system for certain physically demanding careers, such as dancers, circus artists, etc. Finally, the Decree-Law is not sufficient in the area of taxation, and this issue has already been raised extensively. Companies in this sector also suffer from the precariousness of artists and there is not enough effort - we consider - to encourage business activity. In order to move forward in all these aspects, we will abstain and vote, instead, in favour of processing as a bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u84	Thank you very much. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Margall Sastre has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u85	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. First of all, I would like to send a warm greeting to the whole sector, whose representatives are accompanying us today in the rostrum: the associations of actors, musicians, writers, the circus, dance and all the workers in the cultural sector. Thank you for participating in this debate. We discuss another royal decree law of measures designed for the cultural sector, for this necessary set of measures known as the Artist's Statute that we are mounting to pieces, as if it were a puzzle, patch by patch, step by step. In fact, the wording of this royal decree mentions that these measures are taken precisely because the delay in the implementation of this statute is recognized. You know, because we have said it every time we discussed this issue, that the Republican Group was more in favour of adopting these measures together, with a single law that encompasses everything, even being aware of the difficulty of the operation by having to touch on various organic laws. Today, therefore, we are taking one more step forward, which we see as positive and which will improve the lives of many people working in the world of culture, a sector already in itself with many difficulties to survive and which was greatly touched by the economic crisis resulting from the COVID-19. This Royal Decree provides for the creation of a new contributory benefit for artists and technicians who are not entitled to other benefits. We could discuss whether it is generous or not, whether the amount of the benefit could be raised or not, or whether the days could have been raised, but what is certain is that it largely solves the great problem of intermittence in the sector, which was a historical demand of many groups and will now be a reality. In addition, this new benefit will be compatible with the perception of property and image rights, which is a subject that seems very consistent to us. We also welcome that one of the specific objectives of this Royal Decree-Law is to promote the recruitment of persons with disabilities, prioritizing those with greater difficulties and, in general, their transition to regular employment. In all this great project, which is the implementation of the Artist's Statute, we have always tried to help and be useful, both to the sector and to pressure the Government when it seemed that the necessary measures were not implemented, when we felt that measures were lacking or that some needed to be corrected. In this royal decree there are also measures that have entered through the negotiation of the Republican Group, such as one that seemed to us to be basic: the fact of being able to reconcile the collection of 100% of the pension with the realization of artistic activities, if desired. We have found some inconsistencies in the wording of some paragraphs, which may lead to errors in their interpretation or several interpretations, which could cause some defencelessness by some professionals in the sector. That is why we will ask for the processing of this royal decree law as a bill, in order to try to correct errors and to try to improve with more measures, if any, this decree. So, in short, we take a step forward, even if it is not the definitive one. We have a few months of parliamentary term and we still have measures for the cultural sector, so that it is a protected sector with the same possibilities as others and with a great future ahead of us. Finally, we would like to thank the whole sector, which here today has its representatives, for the work and effort they have been doing for a long time so that what we are doing today and other days before is a reality. Without your tenacity, this would not be possible. You know you can always count on Republican Left. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Margall. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-Common Podemos-Galicia in Common, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Vidal Sáez.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u87	After the labour reform, the employment law and also the ILO Convention 189 on Domestic Workers, we needed to address the system of incentives for recruitment and to further extend the protection of workers by expanding or recognizing in this case for the collective of artists and cultural professionals. We want to create jobs and businesses to grow, but we can no longer be worth any job to the United Nations, not to us, not to the workers of this country in particular. We want to encourage the creation of stable and quality jobs and respond to the perversions and abuses in the labour market. We want women workers who are unemployed to find an opportunity, for companies to do well, for all workers to have guarantees and protection and for public resources to be used well. We have had for too many years a system of poorly designed recruitment incentives. We believe in incentives, but we conceive of them as a more public policy to basically strengthen stable employment. It's been years since we've known that blanket irrigation doesn't work. Incentives are good, but not for everything. They are useful for the integration of vulnerable or difficult groups, and this is what this royal decree goes for: women, young people, victims of male violence, people at risk of exclusion, people in unemployment, people with disabilities and the conversion of temporary contracts into indefinite ones. Public money must serve to transform our labour market into a fairer, less elitist, less skilled and also less classy. Public money must be used to provide facilities for those who have the most difficulty finding a job; public money must be used to support the strategy of destitution and dignity of our jobs and wages. Incentives should be used to continue to grow in indefinite recruitment, to improve the quality of employment of the working class as a whole and also to help boost the net creation and maintenance of jobs. But, as you know, this royal decree not only reorients the system of incentives to actively combat inequalities and to strengthen more democratic growth, but comes with a proposal for a benefit for women cultural workers, which is new as long as it did not exist but is an old one known because it is a historical claim of the sector. This benefit has been working for many years and is the result of social dialogue. The cultural sector has been characterized by two elements: its contribution of incalculable wealth and also by unbearable precariousness. Culture is not a luxury, they claimed yesterday at the inauguration of the Festival BarnaSants, but the truth is that dedicating oneself to it has been a luxury for many who have not been able to afford it, and that I think we should worry about. Do you have any idea how much art and critical thinking we have lost as a society because of precariousness? How many artists have not been able to express their art because they cannot live in conditions? We want all citizens to be able to access and dedicate themselves to culture, we want a diverse, free and democratic culture, and this means that artists can make a living with it. Today we are taking steps to end the endemic precariousness of the sector, because today the artists will have recognized an unemployment benefit designed so that the intermittentness and the disparity of situations are neither a loser nor an excuse. My group would like to thank, many times and very loudly, the collective of artists, all the professionals in the sector. Thank you for holding on, for giving the best of you, especially in the most critical moments, for example, that of the pandemic. Thank you for your commitment to art, whether committed or not. Thank you for making us laugh, cry, enjoy, escape, sing or think. Thank you, thank you very much and congratulations. [[Applauds]] Today - and with this I conclude, President - when forty-six years ago the murder at the hands of the ultra-right of Atocha's lawyers, it is a good day to pay tribute to them, widening rights and democracy. Bread and roses. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u88	Thank you very much. For the same group, Mrs García Puig has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u89	Good afternoon. I, in addition to those professionals in the cultural sector, who have fought so hard for these measures, would also like to thank the Committee on Culture, which launched the Artist's Statute, one of the great consensus on cultural policies in our country, and this Government for implementing the measures. Of course, I thank the Minister of Culture, but also the second vice-president, Yolanda Díaz, who knows that she has a special sensitivity for the cultural sphere and is very aware of the precarious work of this sector and of the need to drastically change this situation. Because there was a time when talking about money and culture seemed offensive and there was a certain modesty in which artists will talk about precariousness, but fortunately we are overcoming this taboo. The Spanish author Marta Sanz says this in her book Clavicula, which I have already quoted in this Chamber and which I will not tire of quoting: The creators are not archangels who live from the air, but workers. We ask not privileges, but to be able to live from our work. I claim my right to talk about money. That is why, today, the intervention of my parliamentary group has been divided between Aina Vidal, a tireless fighter for labour rights and against precariousness, and myself, who is in charge of the field of culture. We talk a lot about glass ceilings - and that's very good, because we need to talk about gender issues - but maybe we talk too little about how the social class affects and determines who can devote themselves to culture in this country. Either we put on the table that culture cannot make it a few privileged, or we will have a very poor culture. A few years ago, a study was carried out in Britain entitled How to make parachute-free parachuteism and how the origin of class determines the trajectory of the authors. The results of this study were very clear: 73% of British actors and actresses came from a favoured social class. This is not confined only to Britain or to performance; for example, in Spain, although we do not have many reliable studies, it is estimated that only between 3 and 5 % of writers live from their works, which indicates that if you do not have the parachute that comes from a family origin with patrimony you print on the ground, and we do not want any more talent wounded by precariousness. We therefore need measures like this, measures that guarantee the labour and economic rights of cultural work, because in culture, as increasingly in society as a whole, you live in total precariousness or you bathe in money, and the intermediate fabric is disappearing. The consequences in the cultural sphere are brutal. If all cultural workers share an economic origin and rank, besides being unjust and undemocratic, we will have a cultural sector, a culture, which will be the antithesis of the wealth we deserve. So, second vice president, minister, let us fulfil in this legislature all the commitments of the Statute of the Artist. Let us continue to bet on cultural policies that also place material at the centre, because there is no diverse, rich and plural culture and, ultimately, there is no real culture possible if we do not. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs García Puig. Mr Aizcorbe Torra has the floor for the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u91	With the coming, Madam President. Minister, Vice-President of the Government, you have begun your speech with a quote from the Mexican poet José Emilio Pacheco. Let me start with a Catalan, Spanish, thinker and treatist from Vic, Barcelona, who wrote a phrase that I stayed many years ago and who impressed me because it has a very important foundation: 'The heroism of suffering is in my eyes much more sublime than the heroism of combat'. In this case, this heroism of suffering is that of the Spanish people, which is also reflected in this Royal Decree Law 1/2023, with the usual pomp of this Government and under the title of incentives to employment and improvement of social protection of artistic persons. The importance of the word has much to do with what we are dealing with today in this way, since in the very transcendence of the word one can hide and hide one of the worst oppressions of our time: the dictatorship of language. [[Applauds]] This royal decree law is a sign of this dictatorship of language and of the manipulation of the word, because under a title in unequivocal theory, improvement of social protection, it hides a fraud to it, mixing measures that can seem partially positive but clearly better, such as those related to artists, with others that are absolutely unacceptable. And it is that works are love and not good reasons. So, for the sake of the brevity of time, I will focus on a number of issues that I think are important. Of course, the shape, once again. We are already accustomed by this Government to the abusive and torturing use of article 86 of the Spanish Constitution and the figure of the royal decree law by the double method of fear and lies. I say this in the light of the long justification in the explanatory statement - no less than five pages - even arguing some of the sensuous opposite motives that the plenary of the Constitutional Court of 13 May 2021 argued to give the reason for VOX's appeal, and, moreover, in the light of the case of urgency, as has been said here at some point, as a result of the unilateral and exclusively non-intervention by the Government of this House with component 23 of the recovery plan, which must now be implemented in the face of the possibility - or under the pretext and threat - of not reaching the committed funds, by making all the Members fallaciously responsible. It is a royal decree law condimented once again also with multitude of rules, some partially acceptable - as I have already said - and others of course at all, creating the greatest confusion to the citizenry, considering the easy holder of the whole or nothing in a way of permanent blackmail by the double method of fear and lies. [[Applauds]] But, beyond the form, in this feast of the dictatorship of language we see, not with astonishment but with indignation, that under the formula of aids to situations of birth and care of the infant or of risk during pregnancy and natural breastfeeding, in case of temporary replacement of the job, what before were bonuses and exemptions of 100% in the contributions become to have a partial bonus to the flat rate of 366 euros, provided that a very determined profile of workers is hired exclusively. The PNV spokesman was talking about roles that came from behind, but if you add the partial exemption to the roles we have the perfect equation. Women, future mothers, should know that this Government, instead of helping motherhood and birth - ultimately women themselves - seeks formulas that break the freedom of enterprise that hinder motherhood without blush and with the greatest destitution, conditioning recruitment, improving in part and not completely, thereby increasing the costs of the enterprise - mostly small enterprises already economically affected per se - in a direct attack on birth and motherhood, discriminating against women in the world of work. In short, once again, one more rule and one Government against women. [[Applauds]] Dictatorship of language, because under the title of aid to research staff only with a brief reading we draw the following conclusions. First, that quality jobs be equated, as has also been said, with more precarious ones, but this royal decree means a loss of competitiveness for companies that aim to relocate their R & D & I activities to countries with more stable and secure regulatory frameworks for this purpose, promoting that university graduates, in whose training we have invested so much, will be able to carry out their professional activities in third countries. The impossibility of applying the R+D+i bonus to a person who comes from a company where he or she has an indefinite prior contract, whether or not he or she is subsidized, makes the mobility of research staff substantially impaired, something that goes against the law of science, which considers this mobility a key factor in the development of researchers. But you're going the other way. [[The Lord]] I have no more time left, but this dictatorship of language is tremendous, as when this government talks about the increase in indefinite recruitment - as in this royal decree - and its kindnesses, even when they talked about banning dismissals and these have increased by 45% since the labor reform, as is drawn from the analysis of the causes of the drop in membership of the general social security regime. These are objective data, they are certainties that are absolutely insurmountable. In Definitive, it is the dictatorship of the language that the Spanish people suffer, as I recalled at the beginning of my speech when I alluded to the heroism of suffering, to the fear and lie of this government that must be faced without excuses. Thank you very much. [[The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u92	Thank you. For the People's Group in Congress, Mr Garcés Sanagustín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Vice-President, the truth is that, reading the royal decree law, you have done a perfect exercise of illusionism without illusion. You are the perfect synthesis between propaganda and artifice, an absolutely extravagant combination. And I'm gonna tell you why. I will tell you this because this royal decree law has several problems that really give way to the imposture and composure of this Government. First of all, it is an exercise of temporary illusionism. You have made a perversion of the instrument of the royal decree law. You know that the forty-two articles that make up the operative part of this royal decree law will all come into force on September 1, 2023. How is it possible that the legal instrument of the decree law is used in an obscene and perverse manner with the aim of anticipating an announcement that will not enter into force more than nine months from now? You have made a permanent strangulation of the constitutional legal institutes, of the concept of the causes of extraordinary and urgent need of article 86 of the Spanish Constitution, and here it is. It's very similar to your Sumar platform. You are the closest thing to the announcement and subsequent postponement of any consolidation or execution of a political project. That's the reality. And you accuse us on the Spanish right of trumpeters? The only trap you, but with a trap. Trap for using instruments that should not be used, trap for strangling and distorting normative instruments as should not be done. Secondly, there is also an absolutely material illusionism exercise. You say in the explanatory statement - of course, you must have taken a great deal of effort to the undersecretary to do the work you have done, not only to make the speech, but also to make an explanatory statement of absolute legal burden, as we will now see - that this is part of the fulfillment of component 23 of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan. This recovery plan requires structural measures, as stated in the explanatory statement. Can you tell me how it reconciles the concept of structural reforms with a real law decree that will season and postpone the entry into force of the rules in nine months? Do you think that's really complete? Do you not consider that there is a contradiction in its own terms between the postponement of the rule and the very need for those rules to come into force? Finally, the measures devoted to culture. The spokesman for VOX said - and rightly so, by the way - that there really is an exercise of rhetorical adanism in the title of the royal decree law. For the first time in the history of democracy, a rule is entitled three additional provisions. [[The lady]] On the one hand, that is fine from the point of view of the absolute respect that I have for the world of culture as a writer, actor and film producer that I have been. On the other hand, of course, that reality does not make excuses for that kind of travel that they have made for holder a royal decree law that should have a completely different title. Let's stop at that. Go ahead my respect and my most absolute consideration to the world of culture, to every cultural manifestation. Spain is culture or not. There is no culture of left and right, Spain is culture and culture cannot be collectived. [[Applauds]] Every ideological manifestation is completely different from culture, because culture was Unamuno, which was Basque for Spanish; because culture was Gayarre, which was Navarro for Spanish; because culture was, among others, Luis Buñuel, my countryman, for Aragonese and for Spanish; because culture was, of course, Dalí, it was Albeniz, for Catalan, and why culture was contained in every Berlanga film, which was a real attack on Francoism, not like now, when many productions focus precisely on an attack on freedom of thought. That's the reality. There was more freedom and more struggle against the aggressions of Francoism in many films of the sixties and seventies than there are right now. That's the reality. But, Madam Vice President, we have a problem. We have a real problem, because you, as I would say Aesopo - so much as you talk about lightning, perhaps I also once quoted Miguel Hernández -, what you have done is the birth of the mountains, because you have made three mistakes with the world of culture. Firstly, the measures seem to us to be correct but absolutely inadequate. Of the fifty-eight measures resulting from the development of the Artist's Statute, today, when it was to be implemented in full by 31 December 2022, not all have been implemented. Secondly, I would ask Mr Iceta and you not to anticipate what we are going to vote on. But what kind of crystal ball do you have or what kind of illusionists are you to say what the People's Group is going to vote on this royal decree law? Because you announced it in one act. Do you have the ability to say what we voted for? Do you have the ability to think about what we're going to vote on? Yeah? If you have that capacity, I would be grateful if you would tell us what we are going to vote on, because you have been radically wrong about what we are going to vote on, I am very sorry. Thirdly, as I say, this is the birth of the mountains, because they have given birth to a mouse. You came to say in the joint note that the two ministries were going to benefit 70,000 affiliates. Well, the special unemployment benefit for artists will affect 5227 people, according to the memory approved by you, Madam Vice-President. The compatibility of the retirement pension with the professional activity of the artist, so necessary for so many great artists in our country, will benefit 808 people per year. Finally, the bonus - the deduction of contributions - to those artists with less income will benefit 10,900 people. If I am not wrong - because to add, of course, you must do it wrong, given the fruit of your political platform - I have 17,000 people, not 70,000, as they have said in the press release. Therefore, this leads me to think that only two out of ten, one fifth, benefit from the affiliates. That being said, the most important thing - and taking advantage of the fact that the Minister for Equality is here - is that we find it very sad that the 100 % premium on replacement contracts in the case of paternity and maternity leave and of women in case of pregnancy has disappeared. With the amount of EUR 366 they introduce, which is a fixed nominal amount, only 50 % of that share is increased. It is therefore a punishment for conciliation and, of course, an attack on equal opportunities. I am confident that the Ministry of Equality, in addition to seeing the rules sent to it by the Ministry of Justice, will, as we did at the time, analyse the rules that we have adopted. He ended up with Miguel Hernández and the lightning that didn't stop. You are a truly discontinuous figure of politics. Look at the government, it's discontinuing legitimacy. [[Applauds]] You have suffered a political metamorphosis. It began with the original legitimacy of Unidad Podemos and now with its basic legitimacy. I just tell you one thing and I finish: Spanish society does not resign, Spanish society believes in itself and the time of all of you is over. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u94	Thank you, Mr. Garcés. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Lamuà Español has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u95	Thank you very much, President. The Minister of Culture, Miquel Iceta, promised him this in this rostrum. Without haste, but without pause, the Artist's Statute would come to this House. Today we are back here to approve a new set of measures for the Status of the Artist. In the end it was for the good that the independence groups vetoed him as a senator in Parliament because, with his contempt and closure, they deprived us of a great senator, but they gave us a huge minister of culture who will be remembered for unravelling the Artist's Statute and bringing him to this House. [[applause]] Politics is not done with guts or with prepotence; politics is done with reason, with work and with humility. Thank you very much, Minister. Today we bring to approval - it has been repeated, several of the spokesmen have disengaged it - the compatibility of retirement pensions with the exercise of artistic activity not only for creators, also for performers; to create the commission for the evaluation and recognition of professional diseases in the sectors of culture, and, besides that, today we take another major step: to alleviate the harmful effects of intermittence in our cultural sectors, to create a specific unemployment benefit for artists, adapting it to their intermittence. Everyone knows that it was one of the core elements of what ended up crystallizing in the Artist's Statute... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u96	Excuse me, Mr. Lamuà. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please. Go on whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u97	Today, ladies and gentlemen, we can begin to give an effective solution to this problem; today, ladies and gentlemen, we can all take a step in the right direction for our culture. In many meetings we ask the representatives of the cultural sectors to trust us, in many meetings we ask them to work together to learn the exact needs through their experience. Many of us have been together and, without their persistence, we would certainly not be at this point today. This House owes a lot to all, these and these professionals and cultural activists who, from day one, have been the infallible engine for all of us. My appreciation and that of our Socialist Parliamentary Group; thank you very much. [[Applauds]] Never before, as now, in these liquid times of acceleration of globality, had it been so important not to protect - that also - but to guarantee the space of our culture. At a time when even the great European cultures are seeing their spaces shrunk to marches forced by global culture, which is as diffuse and intangible sometimes as terrificly homogenizing others, it is imperative that we generate the spaces of professionalization that we have not been able to build until today. That is what can guarantee the survival of our cultures and that is first and foremost a crucial element: to be able to live by doing culture, not to survive, not to go by shooting, ladies and gentlemen; to be a worker of culture, a professional of culture with all the dignity that we defend for any worker in any sector of our economy. Culture - yes, it has been said - has a spiritual, vocational, activism component, but too many years have passed in which most of those who want to dedicate their lives to culture barely lived from it. If cultural industries can generate more than 3% of our country's GDP, the obligation to create quality professional spaces for those who generate it is an obligation that we must now meet immediately. I speak only, of course, of the economic benefit; in addition, indeed, we should add the international prestige, the attraction of visitors to our lands, the preservation of our cultural history and the projection of today's culture towards the future. Therefore, the commitment of this House; therefore, the commitment of this Government; therefore, the commitment of Minister Miquel Iceta to the Status of the Artist along with all the other ministries involved. Commitment, moreover, that it has some numbers that endorse it: five inter-ministerial meetings, four specific working groups between eight ministries with more than 85 meetings held... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u98	Quiet, please. Continue, Mr. Lamuà, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u99	... 46 of the 57 measures of the Artist's Statute already agreed or in process of agreement between the ministries involved. Working, working and working is what we know how to do and is what we will continue to do today for culture, and so for the rest of all sectors, because each of these steps is another brick in the construction of our common, fraternal and proud democracy. Today, that we constantly see the appropriation of common symbols by the right and the reactionaries in Spain, each measure counts. Flags don't give education, they don't give universal health, they don't make anti-exclusion plans, they don't guarantee our children's future or pensions to our elders; flags don't feed, they don't warm our homes or generate jobs. [[Applauds]] The homeland is made with rights for citizens; not with hymns or flags, but with opportunities. Therefore, before those who only know how to wave flags, yes, today the Statute of the Artist, as we brought the IMV, as we brought the labor reform, as we brought the pension reform, the State Covenant against Gender Violence, the law of children, the law of euthanasia and, thus, up to 190 rules, we will do it again because it is as simple as this: or rights, or rights. We will continue to work for the rights of the whole world. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u100	Thank you very much, Mr Lamuà. We'll vote in five minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Take your seats, please. Validation or repeal of royal decrees laws. Royal Decree-Law 20/2022 of 27 December on measures to respond to the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine and to support the reconstruction of the island of La Palma and other vulnerable situations. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 175 against, 7 abstentions, 164.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u102	As a result, the Royal Decree Law is validated. Processing as a draft law by the urgency procedure of the Royal Decree Law 20/2022 of 27 December. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 345 abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u103	It will therefore be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. - REAL DECRETO-LEY 1/2023, OF 10 JANUARY, OF EMERGENCY MEASURES IN THE FIELD OF INCENTIVES TO WORK CONTRACTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF SOCIAL PROTECTION OF ARTIST PERSONS. [[File number 130/000093]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u104	Royal Decree-Law 1/2023 of 10 January on urgent measures to encourage employment and improve the social protection of artistic persons. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 200 abstentions, 146.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u105	As a result, the Royal Decree Law is validated. The processing of the draft law has been requested by the urgency procedure of the Royal Decree-Law. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 346 votes in favour, 344 against, 1 abstention, 1.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u106	It will therefore be dealt with as a draft law by the urgency procedure. The meeting was suspended until 16 hours. Thank you very much. [[Greetings addressed to the guest gallery]] It was three and fifty minutes in the afternoon. The meeting was resumed at 4 p.m. COMPARISON OF THE GOVERNMENT TO THE FULL OF THE CAMARA, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE 203 OF THE REGULATION. - COMPARISON, ON THE PROPER APPLICATION, OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT, BEFORE THE FULL OF THE CONGRESS OF THE DEPUTES, TO REPORT TO THE EUROPEAN COUNCIL ON 20 AND 21 OCTOBER AND TO THE EUROPEAN COUNCIL ON 15 DECEMBER 2022, AS WELL AS THE MEASURES TAKEN BY THE GOVERNMENT TO FRONT THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES OF WAR IN URANIA. [[File number 210/00122]] - COMPREHENSIVENESS OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE GOVERNMENT IN THE CHAIR: MRS GAMARRA RUIZ-CLAVIJO AND OTHER 87 DEPUTATES, TO REPORT THE RESULTS OF THE EUROPEAN COUNCIL'S CONCLUSIONS. [[File number 210/00113]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u107	The meeting was resumed. We continue with the appearance of the President of the Government at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies. The following requests for attendance are discussed cumulatively. Appearance, at his own request, of the President of the Government, to the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies, to report to the European Council held on 20 and 21 October and to the European Council held on 15 December 2022, as well as to the measures taken by the Government to address the economic and social consequences of the war in Ukraine. The President of the Government also appears before the plenary session of the House, requested by Mrs Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo and 87 other Members, to report on the results of the conclusions of the European Council. The President of the Government has the floor to make such appearances. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u108	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is eleven months since Putin invaded Ukraine. On 24 February 2022 it will be remembered singularly because it is the day on which the war returned to Europe, eleven months in which Ukraine has resisted fighting for its freedom and independence. The fighting, of course, is taking place there, on Ukrainian soil, but the consequences of the Russian aggression go much further, impact head-on in the European Union - let us remember that four of its Member States share a border with Ukraine - and strike in full in many other regions of the world either affected by the energy crisis or faced with a food crisis that can further exacerbate famines in many countries of the African continent already punished by the effects of climate change. We are faced, ladies and gentlemen - we have said this from this rostrum repeatedly over these eleven months - with an unscrupulous autocrat who knows no limits, who is willing to use everything regardless of the price to be paid, provided, of course, that it is others who pay it. Concepts that we gave for good, for sure, are again in question: an international order based on rules, the inviolability of borders, respect for a country's decision to choose freely over its future without interference or coercion. We believed that multilateralism had been enshrined in order to resolve conflicts, to guarantee peace in Europe; we trusted in the expansion of democracies as the best guarantee for the prosperity of our nations. And in that context, ladies and gentlemen, since 24 February 2022, Spain, together with the rest of the European Union, has been and will be on the side of Ukraine, not only with the sending of military material, but also with humanitarian aid, imposing economic sanctions on the Russian oligarchs and hosting refugees as long as necessary. Spain - you know - is one of the most geographically remote countries in Europe from Ukraine, but we are, together with Italy, the fourth country with the most refugees welcomed, only behind Poland, Germany and the Czech Republic. In total there are 164 000 Ukrainians and Ukrainians who have received temporary protection and reside in our country with full rights. Similarly, we have allocated a figure never seen in humanitarian aid to a single country, EUR 38 million, for humanitarian aid throughout the conflict zone. In short, ladies and gentlemen, Spain has supported and will continue to support, as it could not otherwise be, together with its European allies, Ukraine as long as the occupation lasts, also logically, in its task of present and future reconstruction. As I said to you, ladies and gentlemen, many certainties seem to be in question today, and not just in the area of European security and therefore global. The year we left behind, 2022, has meant that inflation will hit record figures in the past thirty-five years; the energy crisis clearly distresses the whole of Europe as it has not since the end of the last century, in the 1970s, and the rise in interest rates, a product of tightening monetary policies around the world, and also in Europe, hits Spanish families with a variable mortgage. Today, in this context, ladies and gentlemen, within the framework of these European Councils of October and December, I intend to speak to you, as I said, of the present and above all of the future, and for this reason I think it is essential not to forget some of the lessons of the past, because it is usually said, rightly, that history does not repeat itself, but that it rhymes, and today that rhyme warns us - we are seeing it in other geographical latitudes - against reactionary movements that propose the prescriptions for the closure of borders and also of autocracies, and, together with this, the prophets of Revelation reappear, those who warn so much of profound crises end up confusing their desires with reality; they doubt our economy, they damage the image of our country and do not hesitate to do so even outside our country if it suits their purposes. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is important both to make the diagnosis right and not to hide from people the risks and challenges we face, both in Europe and in Spain. I believe that this is an exercise in which we have been engaged since the first day of the conflict on 24 February in the Executive. We have not hidden the difficulties ahead, we have never sweetened reality, we have not painted idyllic scenarios either because the risks are there, they continue to exist and they continue to have a real impact on the economy of our homes and also on the economy as a whole. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the essential thing is to make the right move, to turn to what matters, and what is important is to protect the social majority of our country, to move forward in what is often invoked, which is useful politics, and useful politics is nothing more than to try to solve the problems of people, the real problems of people; of the others we are going to have this afternoon, I imagine, rather than to talk throughout the replicas and duplicates with some parliamentary opposition groups. But I think it is important to talk about the real problems of the people, of the workers who take the closeness to go to work on a daily basis, of the families who devote much of their payroll to the payment of mortgage or rent, of the self-employed, of the small and medium-sized enterprises that have less capacity to fit the rise in light prices or problems in the supply chains, of the households that have many difficulties in being able to reach the end of the month because the wage does not give for more. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the year 2022, as I said before, with an inflation rate of 8.4%, and this general figure for the economy as a whole has different impacts, its consequences are not the same for all. For some family with incomes above €100,000 per year, this 8.4% is a setback; for a family with incomes below €30,000 per year, this 8.4% has dramatic effects. In the home of the 100,000 euros in income, adjustments will obviously have to be made; in the home where one earns three times less, those 200 euros of loss per month are the difference between living and surviving. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard this on many occasions, we, as the executive, govern for all citizens, but it is clear to this government that priority must be given to it: we govern for this social majority, which is so often relegated during the worst years of the financial crisis. I said it since the first day of the war, and it is that, as we also did during the pandemic, we are going to put all the resources of the state at the service of the majority and not the other way around, much less at the service of a powerful minority, as long as the one who can save the majority of the people is condemned. [[Applauds]] This time, I insist, as also happened in our response to COVID-19, the social response will be imposed and that social response will be imposed in the face of the failed neoliberal response of the financial crisis. This time there will be increases in pensions according to the CPI and not its freezing, as happened in the past, while they were rescued - by the way, with public money - broken banks. This time there will be increases in the inter-professional minimum wage and not its freezing, as happened in the past, while the government leaders of the time paid extra in A and B. This time there will be tax cuts to the middle class and to the working class, and not indiscriminate tax increases to that middle class and worker while tax amnesties were passed by the government of the time for large fraudsters. [[Applauds]] This time, ladies and gentlemen, there will be fiscal justice because we intend, and are also committed to, to rebuild that social cohesion broken by the failed neoliberal response to the financial crisis. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, having learned the data of the European Banking Authority, in which Spanish banking is placed as the place where the bulk of managers with higher and better salaries throughout Europe are concentrated, I think it is absolutely common sense to ask them to make a greater effort with the creation of the tax on large financial institutions. [[Applauds]] In any case, as we have always said, first, with the pandemic and, now, with this war, to govern is to choose, always is, always is, and the Government chooses to protect people on foot, as we did, I insist once again, during the pandemic, and we do so not only because we are a progressive coalition government committed to social justice, but because I believe that, in addition, the data corroborate, certify, that this is the most economically effective response. The data indicate this. Ten years ago, if we take a look at the media for a month in January 2013, we will see how it was said, it was reported in those media that the unemployment rate in our country was 26%; Spain suffered unemployment that reached 6 million unemployed in Spain. We lost a million working days as a result of labour conflict. The youth unemployment rate was at an absolute stratospheric limit of 57%, and the working population fell due to the emigration, above all massive, of many young people seeking the opportunities that their country denied them. The neoliberal response of the then government was to impose many counter-reforms without social agreement, one of them, particularly injuring, was the counter-reform of work that accelerated, did not brake, but accelerated, the mass dismissal of workers, devalued workers' wages and also precarious their working conditions. Today, in Europe, ladies and gentlemen, few already defend that legacy of ashes - there are nostalgic, logically, throughout Europe, also in Spain - about this neoliberal response to the financial crisis, but they are not a majority. In any case, to the citizens who are following this debate, I will give you two eloquent facts that I believe certify why I am defending this social response, not only for justice but also for economic efficiency, as we have done during the pandemic to war, in contrast to the financial crisis. With the neoliberal response then, it took eight years, ladies and gentlemen, eight years!, to recover the previous levels of gross domestic product before the financial crisis, and it took ten years to recover the levels of employment before the financial crisis. With the social response that we have been giving over these complex three years, with all the difficulties and also with the mistakes that we have been able to make, in two years we have recovered the pre-pandemic employment level, we will soon recover the previous levels of GDP, and inequality, ladies and gentlemen, has not increased, as it did during the financial crisis. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, after the beginning of the war, I explained from this very rostrum what the answers would be, the plan to respond to the economic and social consequences of the Putin war in Ukraine. I would also like to remind you that, in two areas - the national and the European, because there are many things that depend on Europe - the different answers that we have to give at national level, and also to propose to our European partners that they materialise. At the national level, the response plan has been mobilised to date by 45 billion euros, 45 billion euros!, and the results of this gigantic effort are in sight. We have been able to end 2022 with an economic growth rate that is going to be above 5% of gross domestic product, with the lowest inflation in Europe; we have reduced inflation by five months 5 points, with a record of social security membership of the entire historical series and the lowest unemployment in the last fifteen years. You mean this, ladies and gentlemen, we have little work left to do? On the contrary, we have a lot of work to do, we do not settle, but I think the results are there and what they do is to certify the success or effectiveness of our responses and encourage us to follow this path. [[Applauds]] At European level, ladies and gentlemen, we have promoted measures that would be unthinkable before the war. To think that Europe was going to walk by the centralized purchase of gas from third countries was a chimera before the war began on 24 February; the impulse to renewables, where Spain is an example of inspiration for many, is something already assumed, even by those countries still doubtful to be committed to that green transition; the destination of European funds to the green transition, but also to digital transformation, and the intervention in the price of gas, electricity, what has been called the Iberian solution, or the impulse to energy interconnections, both electric and hydrogen, with Barcelona as the main European player, I think are some, probably the main, measures that Spain has been leading in Brussels. I say all this, ladies and gentlemen, because I believe that this is also a big difference from what happened in the financial crisis because it is not about having language or not, it is about fighting in Brussels and winning them for the benefit of our country, but also of Europe, because today Spain exports solutions to the energy and price crisis, unlike what happened ten years ago under other governments, with which, if we import something, they were rescues to the financial sector and cuts to our welfare state. [[Applauds]] On all this, ladies and gentlemen, we have spoken at the European Councils in October and December, and I would also like to do so, recalling a fact which caught my attention when I read it the other day, and which is the latest Eurobarometer, recently published, where it was said that 81% of our compatriots feel like European citizens, is 10 points above the European average, ladies and gentlemen, 10 points above the European average. This figure I believe shows many things, but it certainly shows a sense of belonging of Spain to Europe, of its citizens with this common project and with the values and principles it represents, and it also shows confidence in the European project, confidence in order to protect ourselves from threats, which we can only obviously face together. One of these threats is that related to a key concept that we are going to develop, increasingly common in the public debate, which is that of open strategic autonomy, in short, how we gain European sovereignty in the face of the threats ahead. Not being autonomous makes us vulnerable, and I think we have a lot of experience over the past three years to be able to support this reflection; we learned it in the hardest part of the pandemic, when Europe suddenly found itself without enough masks and breathers to protect life from the emergence of a virus like the COVID-19. If it was the pandemic before, today is the energy because of the war, the blackmail of Putin with gas and oil, but tomorrow can be other areas, such as that of new technologies or data. In short, whatever that threat may be, I believe it is our duty to plan the response and gain that sovereignty in European terms. This is the first lesson I would like to share with all of you, and I believe that Europe cannot and should not hesitate. It is essential to move forward in this open strategic autonomy, with the certainty, moreover, that the prosperity of our societies cannot depend on the whims of any autocracy. Strategic autonomy, to gain European sovereignty, means having the capacity to decide in key sectors for our economic development and also for the prosperity of our societies, whether in the health field, as I have mentioned before, in defence, in technology or in industry, and we will not be able to reach it knowing, for example, that - I give you this data - less than 10% of the microchips that are manufactured in the world leave Europe, or that only three countries concentrate, nothing more and nothing less, than 90% of the production of lithium, which is essential for the manufacture of electric car batteries or energy storage, or that Europe is losing the career of deploying 5G networks to global powers with which we compete, such as China or the United States. For that reason, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a good thing that, together with the development of this idea of social Europe, strategic autonomy, European sovereignty is one of the main priorities of the Spanish Presidency of the European Union in the second half of this year. It is a challenge in which we will work to reduce vulnerabilities and strengthen our autonomy in critical sectors, in strategic sectors. The second lesson is offered by recent history. As I said before, a decade ago a wrong response, a neoliberal response to a financial crisis, seriously affected the foundations of the European project; a response that was insolidary and that led to an unjust, slow recovery and, thus, the citizen's failure to trust the European project. For that reason, I believe that advocating and defending a just response, with all the difficulties that this crisis caused by the war in Ukraine has, not only serves to protect the social majority of our country and our continent, it is also an investment that re-arms that qualitative concept, which is the confidence and legitimacy of the European project so necessary or more necessary than ever. On that path, ladies and gentlemen, Spain is today a protagonist in the most relevant issues, and the best example of this is in the energy field. At the last two meetings of the European Council in October and December, two issues dominated the debates: firstly, energy and, secondly, the response we have given from Europe to the law on inflation reduction adopted by the Biden Administration in the United States. I'll start with the first thing, the energy. In 2022, as I said before, steps have been taken in a direction in which Spain has been working for a long time. You have heard us say this to the various responsible, both the ministers and myself. In particular, the European Councils in October and December adopted guidelines in a number of areas, later translated into legislative agreements at meetings of our Energy Ministers at the European Council. For example, on 15 December the Council of the Union of Energy Ministers adopted, after intensive discussions, a package of three very important energy regulations. The first, the so-called market correction mechanism; for us to understand, in colloquial terms, involves the recognition of the intervention of a market that does not work by the public administration, in this case, of the regulation, that is, a ceiling at the price of import gas to guarantee the supply of gas at an affordable price; obviously, with different conditions, but this is an open door through which Spain has been advocating for a very long time, even before the war began. And we do this by thinking, logically, of industry, of businesses and of families in Europe and our country. Along with this market correction mechanism or gas price cap, the solidarity strengthening regulation was adopted, which includes, as I said earlier, joint purchases, centralised purchases of gas and the revision of the benchmarks that Europe uses for gas price determination. Thirdly, the regulation entailing the further acceleration of the deployment of renewable energies. Ladies and gentlemen, in the drafting, negotiation and adoption of these three important regulations, the influence of Spain has been decisive, to say the least. To a large extent these finally agreed texts respond to what we have been demanding from Spain since the beginning of the energy crisis. In addition to these three important regulations, the European debate on the reform of the European electricity market intensified in the last quarter of 2022, something which Spain began to defend as early as September 2021, that is, many months before the start of the war, and which is finally taking place in Europe with the commitment of the European Executive, of the European Commission, to present a proposal this year. As you know, in this context Spain has already submitted a proposal - we were the first country to do so - which insists on a fundamental question, and it is that of disconnecting the evolution of the price of renewable energies from the evolution of the price of gas. Again, I do not think it is an exaggeration to say that the Spanish proposal has received great support from the Member States and that it has become the basis for all the debates on this important, I would say, decisive issue. [[Applauds]] Along with this, I would also like to focus on the competitiveness and re-industrialisation of Europe, subjects, of course, connected with the debate on energy prices. As you know, the US Administration's approval of the so-called "Inflation Reduction Act" implies that the world's first economy will allocate nearly $370,000 million to subsidize investments in strategic industrial sectors linked to the green transition. We are talking about hydrogen projects, batteries, electric cars and renewable energies, among many others. Logically, making subsidies conditional on the manufacture on US territory of the entire value chain of these products, what it does is to put at risk the relocation and the divestment of investments from the European Union to the United States. In this respect, I would like to say to the House what is Spain's position on the basis of three considerations that I would like to make before you. First of all, it is good news that a government – in this case, a democratic government – does quite the opposite of what Trump did when he ruled the United States, which went out of the Paris Accords. It is therefore good news that the U.S. government is pushing through these measures its commitment to combating climate change, measures that, logically, are making progress towards an accelerated decarbonisation of its economy, but this goal cannot be achieved at the cost of deindustrializing Europe and many other emerging economies on the planet. Secondly, and therefore, what we are doing is working towards an agreement in the current negotiations in order to exclude European products from the most protectionist clauses of this American law. The United States and the European Union are partners, we are global allies, especially in this very complex context arising from the Putin war in Ukraine, we share democratic values and principles, so it seems reasonable that we should go hand in hand on this very important issue for our economies. Finally, I believe that we too must do our duty, that Europe must react to protect its interests, and this is what we agreed at the last European Council in December, to ask the Commission to present a coordinated response plan to improve European industrial resilience, to improve our competitiveness on a global scale and to preserve, at the same time, the integrity of one of the main achievements of the European project, which is the single market. This plan, which will be presented in the coming days by the European Commission, must have measures in the short, medium and long term of regulation, financing and reform of the state aid framework to make it more agile and adapted to the current context, and to do so, in addition, including the acceleration of recovery, transformation and resilience plans, in short, of European funds, which has been defending Spain since we started this debate. I would certainly say to your ladies and gentlemen that this is a matter of the utmost importance, because crucial investments are at stake for the whole of Europe and, above all, what is at stake, both in the present and in the future, is the capacity of the Union and its industrial fabric in an international geopolitical context marked by the derivative protectionist powers such as the United States and also China and India. In this very uncertain context, ladies and gentlemen, we have done important things not only by offering solvency, but also solidarity, for example, in all the aftermath of the energy crisis: we have reduced the demand for natural gas by 23% since August, compared to the average consumption of the last five years, and also by more than 7% in the case of electricity demand. The easy thing, ladies and gentlemen, would have been to throw away the towel when our proposals were received with a certain scepticism not only in Brussels, but also here by those who are always where they are, in the no, but we never fell down, and thanks to that today we no longer row alone, today we are accompanied by many governments with which we are moving in a good direction, which is to protect the social majority of our country. In any case, some resistances were predictable, it is logical, for example, those of the big energy corporations when we said that the war in Ukraine could not be an alibi for obtaining extraordinary benefits in sectors that have benefited precisely from this crisis - in every crisis there are always sectors that benefit from the suffering of the majority -; they are logical resistances because, after all, we are talking about their results account. Other resistances, on the other hand, were more inexplicable, such as those of those who manoeuvre so that such fiscal justice measures would not prosper in Brussels. The same happened later with what some called the Iberian thymus. Those same were the ones who spoke of the Iberian thymus, to which everyone now calls the Iberian solution, a measure that has already saved, in less than a year, more than 45 billion euros to Spanish households. We are talking about an average of 150 euros in each household. Thanks to this Iberian solution, ladies and gentlemen, the price of the wholesale market, since it entered into force, has been 195 euros the megawatt, that is, 20% less than what would have been recorded in the absence of this mechanism in Spain and 53% less than in Germany, 58% less than in France and 63% less than the price in Italy. Finally, with this data, it is logical that other countries that do defend the general interest of their societies want for them what Spain and Portugal have fought with such determination. [[Applauds]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is what it is about; it is about fighting, not lowering your head, and this is the decisive factor, because Spain today dares to wage those battles in Brussels and has learned to win them. Others accepted submissive a doctrine charged with moral reproach against our country and southern Europe, importing bank bailouts, while Spain today exports solutions such as the Iberian solution. Ladies and gentlemen, as I recalled at the beginning of my speech, eleven months of courageous resistance by the Ukrainian people to Putin are being fulfilled today. In the last Councils, the Union has once again shown unity, firmness and determination in this purpose, in all areas, military, political, economic and humanitarian. Europe's commitment to Ukraine is Europe's commitment also to democracy, to the rules-based international order and, ultimately, to peace and not to the law of the strongest. Ukraine is resisting not only the invader, ladies and gentlemen, but also resisting a reactionary discourse that questions the values and foundations of the European project. It is a speech that some people replicate in other latitudes, as we have seen in Brazil, a little more in the United States and, also, in Spain, and which means nothing more and nothing less than going back to a time we thought had passed, a time in black and white. To all of them, ladies and gentlemen, I say, in the seat of national sovereignty, that they will never succeed, that the rights they have won are not questioned, but are defended, respected and exercised. And if others, out of fear or post-electoral calculations, tremble their legs to defend them, I tell them that the government will never shake its hand, that we will not give in for a minute. [[Applauds]] Three years ago, in my investiture speech, I formalized before you the pillars of the Government's proposal for a progressive coalition for these four years of legislature. We did it before, as you will recall, a few weeks before we had to approve the state of alarm in order to deal with an unknown virus. There were four axes of action: the first, that of digital transformation; the second, that of ecological transition; the third, that of cohesion, both social and territorial, and, the fourth, that of coexistence. Certainly, in 2018, ladies and gentlemen, after the motion of censure, we did not receive a peaceful Spain; we did not receive it. Spain suffered a political crisis as a result of the continuing scandals of corruption that plagued those who ruled at the time and, together with it, a territorial crisis, which led Spain to an unprecedented precipice in the history of democracy, to break our territorial integrity and also its constitutional order, and all this with the backdrop of a serious social crisis, of a deep inequality, whose maximum exponent continues to be child poverty. [[protests]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that, if we had opted for the deployment of renewable energies and not for a sun tax, Spain would be better prepared to cope with the energy crisis. [[Applauds]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt, except for some recalcitrants, that later we will have the opportunity to hear again - I was going to say his reflections - that Catalonia and, therefore, Spain is better today than in 2017. Today, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that Spain would have been better prepared for the COVID if it had had the 94 000 health professionals who had joined the system during these four years of progressive coalition government, compared to the 3000 health professionals who had been cut during conservative governments. [[Applauds]] All these transformations, pending for years - the reasons each one will be able to find them wherever he thinks - we have addressed them during this time so complex, so difficult. We do not choose crises, but we do choose how to deal with that crisis, and we do so by protecting those below, demanding greater responsibility, if I may say so, those above and never forget, never, ever, that, in the face of the multiple crises that we are suffering right now in Spain, in Europe and in the world, we must also reconcile these immediate responses with the great transformations to ensure the present and future prosperity of Spain. What am I talking about? Today I am referring to that in Spain we are betting on clean energy as the best formula to guarantee not only energy sovereignty and cope with Putin's energy blackmail, but also to respond to that greater challenge that humanity has ahead, which is the climate emergency. Today there is a government that promotes the digitization of its companies, the digital training of its workers, which recognizes labour rights to those workers on digital platforms. Today there is a government that is committed to public health, that launches the largest public supply of specialized health training, as happened last weekend, in particular 171 new places, to strengthen, among others, primary care, while before there was an executive that opened the doors to the privatization of health care and that established co-sponsors, today happily repealed as a result of the commitment of the parliamentary majority in this House, as well as the government. [[Applauds]] That same commitment, ladies and gentlemen, is the one we have been deploying and the one that explains the measures to contain the inflation caused by the war in Ukraine. We face it from two objectives, which I would like to share with all of you. The first of these is the obvious one: to alleviate the impact, to the extent of our possibilities, of rising prices in households, businesses and industries. Secondly, to progressively reduce these levels of inflation. A few minutes ago, and I am grateful to the House, this Parliament adopted the sixth package of measures in response to the war, with which we are acting on four fronts, which I would like to share with all of you. First of all, what we are doing is supporting the people, the families of our country. Thousands of homes suffer to fill the refrigerator every week, to buy clothes, to pay bills. I am aware that having reduced the annual rate by 5 points in five months is not enough to improve the daily life of families, it is not enough to alleviate a concern that is real. That concern does not disappear just because a graph points to a descending curve, which we celebrate; we have, logically, to do more, much more. That is why we have taken measures, such as the elimination of VAT on basic foodstuffs. And, look, according to a recent study by the European Commission, this measure is already being transferred to the consumer, and I hope it will be consolidated in the data we have on inflation developments. This report by the European Commission says that overall the reform has achieved its objective of reducing prices, at least immediately after its implementation. In addition to the elimination of VAT on basic foodstuffs and the reduction of VAT on other foodstuffs, the restriction on rent increases and the suspension of evictions of tenants without alternative housing is extended. In the field of transport, as you know, we have extended the reduction by 30% of regional or local competition transport allowances. I will never forget a student interview in a written media media saying that thanks to the gratuitousness in the vicinity she has been able to continue studying at the university. Obviously, this 30% premium for autonomous and local competition transport is conditional on the autonomous and local governments financing at least an additional 20%, so that this discount for the user reaches up to 50%. And we have added the 50% discount increase for multi-travel tickets and tickets in the Canary Islands and the Balearic Islands. With the new year, we maintain the gratuity, as you know, of rolling stock, proximity and mid-distance on state-owned bus lines and continue to increase the discount bonuses by 50% for recurring high-speed users. In total, ladies and gentlemen, in order to get an idea of the impact and social response that this measure has had, we are talking about almost 2.5 million fertilizers in 2022 and more than 1.3 million since the beginning of the year 2023. We are a few days away, a few weeks away, from having started the year 2023. I am aware, ladies and gentlemen, that we have to do much more. I am aware, for example, of the impact of the rise of euribor on the mortgage burden for thousands of households. For this reason, we have promoted a reduction in the rate applicable for five years of lack for families with incomes below EUR 25 200 per year. We have also put in place an additional protective measure to freeze the quota for a year where the relative effort is much higher. And here too, ladies and gentlemen, we have to learn lessons from the past, because we cannot leave the majority aside in exchange for protecting certainties from privileged minorities. Together with families, what we do is act with determination in the field of energy. I have referred to the effort that Spain has made to lead this reform of the electricity market at European level, a reform that translates into a price reduction, so that an essential good is not an unattainable luxury, so that no family has to choose between eating or turning on their radiator. And to the Iberian solution, to which I have already referred, I would also like to add the strengthening that we have made of the electrical social bond, the increase in the allocation of the thermal social bond, the establishment of the maximum price for butane candy, the reduction of VAT and many other taxes on electricity and gas, or the prohibition of the suspension of the supply of electricity, gas and water. Thirdly, of course, support our small and medium-sized enterprises, the strategic sectors and also industry. We do so with more lines of endorsement for self-employed people, for companies affected by the increase in energy costs and also for raw materials. We help particularly affected sectors - remember the land transport of goods, passengers, agriculture, livestock, fishing or ceramics - with ICO lines of liquidity, with direct aid and also with a decarbonisation PART, which will help to modernise this important industry. We have also extended the fuel rebate to carriers, farmers, shipping companies and fishermen. We have boosted specific direct aid for large electricity consumers and, as I said earlier, the intensive gas industry. Finally, we have made progress in what is called fiscal justice; that is, to fairly distribute burdens, costs and sacrifices in a context such as the current one, which I believe is not only economic efficiency, but also a very relevant moral imperative. It is the only way to strengthen the public, which is of everyone and everyone, which saves us when everything else fails. We have created some new tributes, and all of them have a common denominator that I would like to share with you, and it is to demand an additional effort from those who have and who have benefited most from the price escalation and the rise of the types. And I say this openly, ladies and gentlemen, because when we have to make an extra effort in difficult times like the present, that effort must fall on those who enjoy a much more relaxed position. That's what fiscal justice is about, and I think it's the most decent thing we can do in these times of uncertainty. In return, what are we doing? Well, in return we have not only put in place this €45 billion to protect people, but there is also a selective tax reform that includes a reduction in labour yields that will benefit one in two workers in our country. We also include a reduction in the taxation of self-employed workers, which will benefit almost a million of them. We also lower company tax for small and medium-sized enterprises that charge up to EUR 1 million and which will reach more than 400 thousand companies in our country. These and other additional measures involve unprecedented resource mobilization. We are talking - again, I repeat - about EUR 45 billion in public funds to protect people, businesses and industries, where it is most needed and at the most appropriate time. I recognize, ladies and gentlemen, that these are progressive, social measures, the same measures which are opening up in many other European countries, just the opposite ones, as I said at the beginning of my speech, which were applied during the financial crisis and which today, fortunately, rejects the majority of European countries and also the international consensus. I believe that we are all very aware not only of the lessons of ten years ago, but also of the failure of neoliberal recipes following the crisis in the United Kingdom, which led to the conservative government of Liz Truss. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, last week I once again had the opportunity to participate in the World Economic Forum. During my stay I had to answer two questions repeatedly, which I would like to share with you: what were the recipes - I quote textually - of the Spanish economic success - literally said by the organizers - and whether I thought they could serve as an example for other countries. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet and respectful.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u110	There was a not too distant time when Spain did not attend such meetings. Obviously, the reason was to avoid the misconception of representing a country, ours, whose economy was perceived as a permanent problem. Today, Spain is an option of confidence, despite the complexity of the economic situation that we are experiencing. It is a country that has not only done its duties, but takes the initiative and proposes solutions to European and global problems. [[Applauds]] It is a country that, despite the right-wing and far-right opposition's claim that we have a hidden plan to not know what constitutional change, attracts foreign investment in sectors of the future, with the greatest figures in our history. According to Financial Times data - finally, a means of communication, as you know, deeply leftist - Spain attracted projects worth €32 billion until November 2022, 24% more than in the same period of the previous year. It is a country - we have seen it in Fatur - that is world leader in tourism and that in the year 2023 will beat a new record, reaching 85 million tourists, above the pre-pandemic figures. [[Applauds]] It is a country that, for the first time in a global crisis scenario, is leading economic growth in Europe with all the difficulty. According to the forecasts of the main European and national international bodies, Spain will maintain positive economic growth in 2023 - I insist, with this very complex and uncertain context - with a rate that will double the European average and clearly above the major European economies. It is a country, ours, that is capable of increasing the protection of its citizens, especially those most vulnerable, while at the same time healing its public accounts. In just two years, ladies and gentlemen, we hope to halve the public deficit of 2020, a very difficult year for all, because we have had to make a lot of public resources to save lives, businesses and jobs as a result of the confinement and the pandemic, and also our public debt, which continues to decline and is going to continue to do so over the coming years, thus fulfilling not only a commitment to fiscal consolidation by our Government, but also the objectives agreed with Europe. It is a country committed to leading, with the right example, global challenges, such as that of the climate emergency. We lead the energy transition and do not settle for being the fifth country worldwide in wind production or the eighth in renewable energy, and that is why our country already welcomes nothing more and nothing less than 20% of all projects related to green hydrogen in the world, with projects as emblematic as the H2Med of interconnection between Barcelona and Marseille. [[Applauds]] Last weekend we also learned about Germany's important decision to join this H2Med project, which I believe is an extraordinary milestone and reinforces the true European dimension of this great initiative promoted from the start by Spain together with Portugal. In short, ladies and gentlemen, it is a country capable of creating more and better jobs in the midst of the crisis, unlike before, thanks to the protection measures deployed during the pandemic and to the labour reform agreed with the social partners, elaborated since the dialogue and not since the imposition, as happened in the 2010s. Look, ladies and gentlemen, almost half a million new jobs have been created during 2022 to reach 20.3 million contributors. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the most eloquent fact that we are solving one of the secular ills of our labour market, with all that we still have to do in the workplace. It accounts for 232% more of the increase in indefinite contracts in just one year, which put figures in the first year of the labour reform. This is a labour reform that is not only - as I said before - the fruit of social dialogue - it has therefore counted with the agreement of employers and trade unions in our country - but has recently been praised by the International Monetary Fund itself, not even suspected of being a dangerous leftist. It is a country, ladies and gentlemen, which has reversed the reform of pensions and which would have condemned the loss of purchasing power to more than 10 million pensioners if the counter-reform of the People's Party had continued in force. Today, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the indexation under the CPI, the average pension is increased by EUR 108 per month, instead of the EUR 2.39 cents of increase that would have been applied to them under the system approved by the People's Party. [[Applauds]] It is a country, ladies and gentlemen, which leads the implementation, with all the difficulty we have ahead, of the recovery plan, financed from European funds. We have already received EUR 31 billion and in a few days we expect to receive the outstanding EUR 6 billion. Expenditure has already been committed for more than €42.6 billion. More than 8,500 calls have been held, with more than 192,000 beneficiary projects, and 12 approved strategic projects that will involve the modernization of our country's industry and economy. We are, as you know, now drawing up this addendum to the recovery plan, which includes the addition of another EUR 94 billion in loans, also in transfers to two major areas, the first of which is to strengthen strategic projects to ensure what I said at the beginning of my intervention, that European sovereignty, that strategic autonomy also within the national framework, to inject resources and liquidity into central sectors for the acceleration of the green transition and digital transformation, and also to include the creation of a large fund for the financing of priority projects in different territories. Ladies and gentlemen, these measures not only serve the cause of social cohesion and territorial cohesion. I believe that - it will be talked about, sure, I am convinced, because there is nothing else they talk about - they are measures that unite Spain, and unite it in a way very different from that of some that proclaim in different places of Madrid and that have in mind as long as they are in opposition, exclusively, the patrimony of the Constitution, of Spain, of patriotism... Finally, we will have many examples throughout this afternoon about the constitutionalism and the Spanishism of some of the speakers. But there is no greater or better patriotism, ladies and gentlemen, than that which narrows the social and territorial divide and advances in equal opportunities, and that is what this progressive coalition government is doing. [[Applauds]] Today, Spain, ladies and gentlemen, faces the challenges from prudence, but also from confidence and, consequently, from the hope that we believe that this year will continue to grow so difficult for the global economy and also for the European economy, as is the year 2023. Ladies and gentlemen, we have had to respond to unusual situations and emergencies in these years. Yesterday, in the end, science told us that the core of the earth... Well, anyway, I'm gonna stay there. [[Rumors]] We have had to take unprecedented steps in the history of our democracy, but we have never turned away from the vocation of service to the social majority. [[Applauds]] We have endeavoured to comply with a basic principle, the real cause of our European and international leadership, which is to protect and advance. [[Rumors]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will listen to you carefully, although I know perfectly well what you are going to tell me. Listen to me carefully, maybe they have something left of what we're doing. [[Applauds]] None of this means, ladies and gentlemen, that Spain has no problems to face. It has them, they are serious and they are pressing, they are more pressing even after ten years of failure of neoliberal response to the financial crisis. We are not free from the shocks that affect us, like our most direct partners, nor from the uncertainty, nor from the instability that will very possibly continue to mark the immediate future of the planet. Spain also walks with the ballast of important structural problems, which, in many cases, are decades old. Despite favourable data on unemployment, membership and economic growth, it is clear that our unemployment rate remains unacceptable, especially when we are talking about youth unemployment or unemployment among women, as well as indicators of social inequality, intergenerational inequality, territorial inequality or gender inequality, the cruelest expression of which is the violence suffered by women. We still have some serious shortcomings in terms of competitiveness, productivity and the formation of our human capital. We are dragging away processes of environmental degradation, loss of biodiversity, aggravated by the climate emergency, and we still have unacceptable gaps in terms of social and territorial cohesion. And in these years, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, despite the difficulties, we have made much progress in these areas, but obviously much remains to be done. That is why I believe it is essential that we continue to make progress on the structural transformation agenda, which was marked, as I said earlier, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, by this progressive coalition government. And that is precisely what we are going to continue to do, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue to protect the vast majority of the country from the effects of war. We will continue to move towards a Spain that needs to be reindustrialised, taking advantage of and seeing as opportunities what others see as unattainable challenges, which are the opportunities offered by the energy transition and digital transformation to make our country a more sustainable and cohesive country and, ultimately, a more just Spain. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist and Confederal parliamentary groups of the United Nations, Puedos-En Comú Puedos-Galicia in common, and the members of the Government, standing]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u112	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Sánchez, I want this appearance to be useful to Spanish society and therefore you are aware here today of matters which alarm and cause great concern to the citizens. Therefore, it is time for you to pronounce yourself on the harmful effects of the law of the only yes, because these are also the real problems of the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] But before that, I want to express, and to do so on behalf of my group, my solidarity and support for the victims, women, children, girls, who are watching their sexual aggressors, rapists, even a murderer, benefit from a reduction in sentence and are even leaving jails; and there are already 261. But we also want to give our full support to the victims of sexual crimes, whose sentences are still pending review, and many of them know that exactly the same is going to happen. Because no woman who has been the victim of these attacks or any child should be invaded again by insecurity, unrest and impotence, i.e. by the revictimization of her own Government. [[Applauds]] Spanish society urges it to act and rectify. It is demanded not only by women, and not only by women of the centre right, as you can come to believe, but by society as a whole. I invite you to look back and ask your own bench. Because its policy is combining sectarianism with the worst legal technique and arrogance in the face of mistakes. And to all these victims we want to say that they are not alone, that their pain and fear are not indifferent to us. If this government has failed you, this Parliament should not do so, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] That is why I invite the rest of the political forces to support together an initiative to rectify these penalties and that no sexual aggressor should have a lower sentence than he would have had under the previous Penal Code. That is why the People's Party is pushing for a change in this law. Mr. Sanchez, when are you going to do something to stop this scandal? When are you going to rectify? Not only have they not asked for forgiveness, but we have seen and the victims have had to see how members of his Government joke about the pain of the victims, and that is unacceptable. We know that we cannot stop the ministers of Podemos, but can we not even legislate with common sense and sensitivity for women who are victims of sexual assault? [[Applauds]] Your Honor, instead of protecting and benefiting the victims, the only favored are being the worst sexual predators in our society. Yes, Mr. Sanchez. Mr. Sanchez, your feminism is a lie. [[Applauds]] While you refuse to correct with the urgency of the good ruler the law of the alone is yes, you give all the haste of the world - the haste of the bad ruler - to make the Penal Code to the measure of your independent partners; that is, you are using the law to support yourself in power, not to make a better country. [[Applauds]] And that is what is expected of a good President of the Government. But let us go to other consequences of their reforms: the reduction of penalties to the corrupt. You, who seek to humiliate the truth and pay tribute to the lie, instead of bringing Puigdemont to justice, to what you committed, abrogate the crimes you have committed and lower your sentences; instead of recovering the crime of illegal referendum, to which you committed, you assure Esquerra that there will be after the elections, and instead of fighting corruption, to which you also committed, lower the punishment to the evildoers. In short, criminals again benefit from their policy. What should be happening? A policy of strengthening the State and supporting victims should be pursued, and the Criminal Code should not ultimately be turned into a checkbook to pay political mortgages as is happening in our country. This, Mr Sánchez, is unprecedented in any European country and even the European Commissioner for Justice himself has denied his alleged justifications. Spain, Mr Sánchez, had no obligation to harmonise the sedition legislation; it did have an obligation not to disharmonize the embezzlement legislation, let alone to undermine the protection of the Union's financial interests. Because its reform runs counter to Directive 2017/1371 and that is why we are failing to comply with European law. And we do it for two reasons...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u113	Mrs. Gamarra, I'm sorry to interrupt you. I would remind you that the purpose of appearances is to discuss the European Council and the economic and social measures adopted in the face of the war in Ukraine. [[Protests.-Applause.]] Quiet, please. I ask you to remain silent. I ask you, please, to address the subject matter of the appearance.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President, but I should also have reminded the President that he has referred to the actual decrees that have been validated today. [[Applauds]] But I'll get to the point. Speaking of European policy, I am sure that you have transferred your colleagues to the European Councils why the management of European funds with the new definition of this crime could be left out of the crime of embezzlement, or why you are not going to comply with the directive ordering the punishment of all forms of embezzlement with penalties of a maximum of four years, which is not in compliance with the new article 432 of the Criminal Code. That's where the European Union is putting the magnifying glass, in this blowjob in which you are ultimately benefiting the criminals, the ones who always win with you. And I ask you, how do you plan to fix it? How do you intend to deal with this disharmonisation in relation to European legislation? By the way, will you resign if there are beginning to be revisions of punishment in cascade of corrupt people, as has happened with the law of the only one? Are you able to commit to it, or do you not put your hand in the fire or by Pedro Sánchez? [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, one of the worst scourges of this government is to try to impose a fictitious narrative on reality: the permanent submission of the Generalitat is called 'peace', the failure to comply with the rulings on 25% of the Spanish is called new time' and the announcements of a unilateral referendum of self-determination are called 'agreement'. Do you dare to repeat here that the process is over, after Aragonès has said otherwise, and then, moreover, to try to blow up the Spanish-French summit? Yesterday, the president of my party offered him the most comprehensive and inclusive proposal to strengthen our rule of law that has been made in four decades. [[Rumors]] Don't you think politics is about reaching big agreements to strengthen our democracy? That's politics with capitals. [[Rumors]] Mr. Sánchez, there are realities that even the most effective propaganda operation is capable of concealing. I asked him a few minutes ago why he is unable to put himself in the place of the victims of sexual assault, and now I ask him why he is unable to put himself in the shoes of the Spanish middle class that cannot reach the end of the month. Economic triumphalism, which you have offered us here today, is absolutely offensive to millions of Spaniards who are experiencing great difficulties. [[Applauds]] Spain leads the European Union's unemployment: we lead youth unemployment and women's unemployment. Does that seem to you to be a reason for pride? The underlying inflation is already at 7% and the one affecting the shopping basket is about 16%. The mortgages rose an average last year of 250 euros and the bill of light 34%. Do you think that's a reason for pride? Your government will cost our children and grandchildren 200 million euros a day in debt. Do you think it's a reason for pride? And all this while wages have lost 6% of purchasing power, 13 million Spaniards are at risk of poverty and continue to increase inequality. Mr Sánchez, Spain lost 45% of foreign investment in 2022 compared to 2018 when it ruled the People's Party. [[Show a chart]] Moreover, in view of its triumphalism, there is evidence - from the European Commission itself - that Spain is the last country to recover pre-pandemic GDP. Obviously, this is not to be proud; to be the last, to be on the line of recovery in Europe, is not reason to be proud or to think that everything is all right. [[Applauds]] Correct your economic policy, which you have turned uniquely and exclusively into an electoral shield and alleviate the situation of families. Stop improvising, continue to take our measures, but we would ask you to do so in time and also to do so in a complete way, because the economy is not a matter of patches or pull them out. If you want the support of the People's Party, look for the agreements because we're willing to give them to you. And if not, tell the Spaniards today why he did not want to lower the VAT on meat, fish or cans. Don't those foods have to be in a shopping basket for any Spanish family? Are they not commodities that should be protected by the government so that they are in all the baskets of the purchase of the middle class and the low incomes of the Spanish society? [[Applauds]] This, Mr Sánchez, goes from the Spanish, not from their survival to the head of the government. On the European Councils, one more element of institutional deterioration is that this debate does not take place after each Council, but you always decide to accumulate one after the other, and I am convinced that it will not be what Europe wants. It is also unacceptable that Putin is more likely to appease than to arm the Ukrainians. Today you have spoken a lot here about the war in Ukraine. Now the Ukrainians are urgently asking us for combat cars, the Leopards that you have in a pitiful state, according to the words of Minister Robles himself, who while boasting of defence budgets does not go to summits like that of Rammstein. Ukraine needs cars and no proposals for appeasement, as you have done these last days. Don't you realize that our freedoms will only be guaranteed if Putin is defeated? The German Foreign Minister has said that she will authorize the shipment of the Leopards by countries wishing to do so. Is Spain going to do it? Or is he gonna line up with Orbán? Because it wouldn't be the first topic on which you, for example in energy, align with Orbán. You will say in what, because in that we are increasing our dependence on Russian gas. What do the conclusions of the European Council say? What are they specifically collecting? Russia's energy demand must be reduced. Correct, Mr Sánchez, and put Spain where the Spaniards want to be, which is with the allies who seek to overthrow Putin and not with those who fund him or those who seek to whitewash, as are their own government partners. [[Applauds]] You have made Spain more dependent on Russia and also put the supply with Algeria at risk, thanks to your successful economic diplomacy. Due to their errors and sectarianisms, MidCat's interconnection with France was paralyzed in 2018; they have now improvised a new interconnection, only hydrogen, whose technical studies did not exist when it was announced. In short, the reality is that in 2023 our energy isolation is greater than in 2018, when you came to the government. Then, therefore, with you we have not improved but we have worsened. You spoke of the Iberian exception. On the Iberian exception, why don't you tell the Spanish families and companies here today that with this gas cap they have so far subsidized French and Portuguese families and companies with EUR 16 billion in the bills of light for all Spaniards? Why don't you give this to the Spaniards? [[Applauds]] You have also spoken about the sun tax, as I recommend a reply from your own Government, which was urged by this same parliamentary group. In this connection, his Government's reply was: There has been no tax in the strict sense. Therefore, do not lie, nor with your own answers. [[Applauds]] If we talk about European funds, the reality is that they are not reaching the productive fabric and are being lost in management, only 10% of them have been implemented, according to the FEDEA report. In short, their policies are erratic and their management is chaotic. This is the balance sheet of a government that, fortunately for the Spaniards, is already in discount time, that is, you are a lame duck, as you would say in the United States. As we are in a European debate, I would like to remind you that the Moroccan Parliament agreed yesterday, less than a week before the high-level meeting with Spain, to review relations with the European Union. What do you think of this? It would be important for us in this Parliament to know what it thinks of what was agreed yesterday in the Moroccan Parliament. By the way, that of the Socialist Euro MPs who had to vote against a subject of rights and freedoms is a big deal. By the way, who are you staying with? With Le Pen. [[Applauds]] And all with a meeting in sight that vetoes the presence of half of his Government. Mr Sánchez, can you explain to us why the commercial customs of Ceuta and Melilla are still closed? What have been the benefits for the Spaniards of their bandage, still unexplained, in relation to Morocco? Mr Sánchez - you, who presume so much -, the reality is that you are bringing us into paralysis. But in the face of its paralysis, there is a project of change that is very real; a project of modernization, coexistence and stability; an economic project thinking and thinking about the problems that the Spaniards really have, in which feminism is demonstrated with facts and in which public life recovers the path of agreement and institutional respect; a change that leaves behind polarization and promotes as a meeting place politics, which you have relegated, managing well and also doing it for all. This is Alberto Núñez Feijóo's project. [[Protests]] Because he's out of sanchismo, and the year...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u115	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u116	I'm on my way. Because the Spaniards have good news, and they already know that the year to do so is 2023. Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the floor]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u117	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gamarra. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Pedro Sánchez always disguises himself as a statesman when he comes to this House, as if he were running away from something or as if he were hiding something. He always comes back very full of his tours, because only abroad can he walk without seeing the traces of ruin and indignation that generate his policies. In fact, today he has shown himself here very proud and very satisfied with the pats, kisses and carantons of billionaires in Davos. But that may make you forget the beatings, the booches and the reproaches of the popular classes in Spain, which make you need 500 meter perimeters to celebrate your actions and resort to a North Korean leader marketing playing petanque with your own affiliates. [[applause]] [[Laughs.-Applause.]] It is difficult for Mr Sánchez to see the trace of the policies, not those which he has decided, but those which were dictated to him by his leaders here and also by his leaders out there; some and other policies which are terribly detrimental to the interests of the Spaniards and to the well-being of the Spaniards. Mr Sánchez, there is no sufficiently funded propaganda or press that can hide your conception of politics, a mixture of autocracy inside and submission abroad. The reality always comes to light, and you have already been criticized by a number of foreign MEPs this week in the European Parliament. You have not explained to the Spaniards what these billionaires have dictated to you with which you code to fix the world with your ideological nonsense. He has not explained to them whether we are going to suffer more restrictions from extreme climate policies, with more restrictions on the countryside and industry - although you here are filled with re-industrialization, but he does not say how - or whether the borders are going to be more open, as he has thrown at those who say we want to close the borders to lime and chant. Or have you dared to tell the Spaniards that the rapists who go out on the street come out for their laws, because of your government and because of the president of the government? Have you dared to tell young people that they will not be able to access a home or to form a family? Have you also told them that heating is going to be more expensive, because you and your parliamentary majority, with the sole opposition of VOX in this Parliament, prevent the Spanish from exploring and exploiting their energy sources, the energy sources in Spain? [[Applauds]] [[Applauds]] By the way, you have not told us what you have been told, since I have seen you very concerned about the detention of the core of the earth - it is true that tonight it has cost me to reconcile the dream thinking that the day could be shortened, as I have read, in something less than a fraction of a second - but I would like to know what they have proposed to you in Davos. Do we have to eat more crickets? Do we have to shut down more industries? Do we all have to vote for you? What exactly did the millionaires tell you? [[Applauds]] What interests me is that you tell the Spanish the truth. I was asking him about that, because I hadn't told him. If you have said something to the Spaniards it is not true, because it is not true anything you say, because the first stone of the building of this government has been the lie to the socialist voters themselves. I have told you many times, but I have a duty to repeat it: no one can trust you. There is no European Government committed to Ukraine and to defending its sovereignty that can be trusted by you and your Government. There is nothing more to see your Government and its partners in government and investiture to understand the mistrust that you generate every time you leave our borders. You have in your government - you - Putin's allies in the Puebla Group, all Putin's allies in the Puebla Group. [[Applauds]] Yes, he has in his own government - and some of them are already laughing here - prominent members of the Puebla Group, and the Puebla Group is Putin's great supporter throughout Hispano America. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish the war in Ukraine would have led us to a higher debate in the European Union, because it is lukewarmness and suicidal energy policies that have allowed Putin to feel strong and capable of perpetrating aggression against the Ukrainian people when he already had a Europe, with Germany at the front, totally dependent on Russian gas. Now you come here to talk about common defence, but how are you going to talk about common defence, Mr Sánchez? It has no legitimacy to talk about common defence and security. It presents an increase in investments, new measures to protect Europeans, but its problem is that it wanted to eliminate the Ministry of Defence. [[Applauds]] You, who govern with the support of the political heirs of the terrorists, with people convicted of belonging to an armed gang, come to us to talk about security. You, who release criminals, seditious people and sexual predators, tell us about security. You come here today also talking about energy sovereignty. It is not possible to discuss energy seriously with those who have condemned the Spaniards to energy dependence. You cannot come to this House to talk about a different future for Spain, as long as you do not repeal the laws passed in this Parliament, I insist, which prevent you from exploiting our own energy resources. [[Applauds]] He came here to regret that three countries concentrate 90% of lithium production - Australia, Chile and China - but Spain has the second largest lithium mine in the world that we cannot exploit because of its whims, its extremist ideology and its climate fanaticism. Are you complaining about our dependence? Tell the truth to the Spaniards, let the Spaniards choose, let us vote if they want to be able to exploit their own resources and not be dependent on other nations. [[Applauds]] The word in this rostrum is not enough. You and many of the European leaders, Mr Sánchez, represent that generation of politicians who have taken Europe to the edge of the cliff and who have brought insecurity to the streets with hundreds of imported crimes that we did not know before in Europe or in Spain. The avalanches at the borders that constantly try to pass over our public servants, the energy dependence of third countries, the destruction of industry and the middle classes, and all for the benefit - yes, even if you would - of Communist China and its allies, therefore, everything to the liking of Putin. [[Applauds]] China is a very good example of its weakness. I know you don't understand me, you shrug your shoulders; it's mutual, we don't understand you either. You have the custom of mocking our proposals, but months later reality is imposed and you have to assume a cure of humility. It has now done so by deciding to lower VAT on some products, which VOX precisely proposed to you refused. It has also happened with the Chinese regime. China, ladies and gentlemen, has to pay for expanding the virus, for lying blatantly to the world and for ruining the economies of the entire planet. [[Applauds]] And, instead, what are you doing? Instead of facing China, they tell a neighbor of Palencia or Soria how he has to live to fight the apocalypse whose main responsibility would be precisely China, because twenty-three of the world's twenty-five most polluting cities are Chinese. That is the problem, as long as employment is displaced or industry is dismantled, others continue to pollute. And you still have the face of coming to this House as if you were the masters of the world, as if you were painting something when, in reality, you simply meet the demands of some people from outside, such as Morocco, for example. You have not yet explained the change in international policy in relation to the Sahara, a country from which so many socialists in Spain and Europe charge, and to which they have surrendered and handed over to their party. Because it is very good to talk about sovereignty and food security, but it would be much better to protect our producers, our farmers or our fishermen, who have to compete in totally unfair and unfair conditions of inequality, such as tomato farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you know that in the last five years Morocco's sales of tomatoes to the Member States have increased by 38%, while Spain's sales have decreased by 24%. [[Applauds]] Everything at the service of other people's interests, everything at the service of those millionaires who then tell us here that he wants to fight, with whom he is now photographed and that the same thing is trampled with his extremist ideologies on biology, on geology or on logic. Everyone aspires to tell us how we have to live and everyone aspires to do so, besides, without running for election and stealing sovereignty and democracies throughout the planet. They are always just as good, and middle and popular classes, every day worse. What else have you decided behind the backs of the Spaniards and the rest of the European citizens, Mr Sánchez? What new restrictions on companies, our field or our way of life have been prepared and will we know in the coming months? Be brave and respond, have the boldness of Commissioner Breton, who the other day in Madrid confessed and came to tell us that nothing happened, that we would continue to produce the combustion cars that we can no longer buy and with which we cannot enter our cities, because we will sell them to Africa. What a mixture of colonialism and grosser racism some bureaucrats have! [[A Member: What a shame!-Applause]] By the way - I take this from you, because you were only suggesting it, to then focus the debate - now it seems to them that they are concerned that all women receive more information during pregnancy, because after Castile and Leon's proposal all their media satellites went out to tell the People's Party what they had to do. [[rumors]] But who is against offering more information, more assistance and more alternatives to pregnant women? What are you afraid of? What do you want to hide? [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u119	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u120	What's wrong with them? Do you have a problem with informed consent, for example? Why can't a woman, if she wants, listen to the heartbeat of her life inside? [[Rumors]] [[Ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Group, some Members of the European Parliament speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] Explain to me, that it is you who have much to hide. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, why have you disauthorized a government whose Health Councillor, of your own party, has announced at a press conference, with a press release and through your own Councillor, measures that, I insist, offer only more information, assistance and alternatives? Did you need the Socialist Party's permission in a hurry? When we negotiate something with you, are we going to have to ask these gentlemen permission? It would be good to know. Tell me, for future pacts. [[Applauds]] How does the PP respond to the offensive of Prisa and the Socialist Party? Announcing that he wants to agree with Sánchez, with the zarandaja of the most voted list, at the moment, to distribute power with Sánchez in autonomies and municipalities with a totally undemocratic proposal and that he attacks parliamentary democracy and supposes the return to the old bipartisanism. The Spanish, ladies and gentlemen, deserve an alternative. That is why your statements and your agreements over the past few days are so dangerous. Thank God, the majority of Spaniards have realized and massive demonstrations have taken place in the face of the danger posed by this government: one, on 1 December in Madrid, and the other, on 21 January. [[Applauds]] We have also heard them say that we must give the cultural battle against VOX. With which it is falling and with the limits that this government is crossing, the priority now is the cultural battle against VOX. Meanwhile, this Government, in Davos, threatens the opposition in war terms, and that has its consequence. Today, for example, Mrs Ayuso has been harassed, crushed in a university with the permission and encouragement of the government, there is no doubt, because when they threaten others they act, and that is what VOX has been suffering for four years, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have to rise to the worst government in our history. Don't be afraid. It is true that what is happening is unheard of in a democracy: a government that lies; that turns its back on citizens; that attacks institutions and control bodies; that abuses rights and freedoms, with a constitutional sentence in addition; that condemns us to bandits in foreign policy, that condemns us to insecurity and dependence for it; that it has begun a process of destruction of institutions, such as its allies in Hispano America; that it is chopping up the State as a step before chopping up the nation; and that it is putting itself at the service of coups, criminals, corrupts and billionaires. Ladies and gentlemen, there have never been so many reasons to censure this Government, because none of the pillars on which a democratic country is based exists today in Spain: borders, broken; unity, threatened; security, in question, especially that of women; the economy, by the soil; sovereignty, undermined because orders are received from outside; institutionalized corruption; the Constitution, by the soil; democracy and the rule of law, deteriorated; the Government, in favour of the enemies of Spain; and a parliamentary majority assaulting any independent institution. It's over. We regret to have been right in our diagnosis during these years and especially in the motion of censure. Mr Sánchez's conclusions today are only one more sign of the drift to which you have drawn across Europe, and that is why the others have a responsibility as Spaniards and as builders of Europe since before the European Union existed, and the responsibility is for the European Union to look more like Europe and less like the delusions of bureaucrats. We believe that another Europe is possible, one that defends individual freedom, national sovereignty and cooperation among nations, the right to dissent from the powerful, freedom of expression and the right to life. Thank you very much. [[Several Members: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u121	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. For the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in common, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Asens Llodrà.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u122	Ladies and gentlemen. President, we share everything you have explained. Congratulations for the work, for the recognition in Brussels and Davos, you had brave words there, but let me make a constructive criticism, a criticism that starts with a question and ends with a request. You know that in politics the photos count, they're important, they're messages, and you've talked in your intervention about the people you struggle to reach at the end of the month, who can't pay your rent, and I ask you: what do you think all those people think when you see them in the photo with vulture funds in Davos and New York? What do you think when you have been resisting the regulation of rental prices for more than a year? Or when Mr. Iceta said the other day that his housing reference is the head of the real estate firm? I think all these people would like a progressive president like you to meet with those who defend their rights: the social groups, the PAH, the Tenants Union... I think all these people would like to be planted in front of the vulture funds, as we also do in the Barcelona government. Do you know what we do there? We don't put red carpets on them, we put in million dollar fines. That is why my request is that you meet with these collectives - I know they have asked you three times per letter -, that you listen more to people and listen less to vulture funds. [[Applauds]] I think that these months everyone has seen the difference between a left-wing government and a right-wing government, you explained: in the previous crisis the banks were saved, pensions were lowered; people are now saved, pensions are raised. But we need that photo, the photo of a housing agreement, to regulate rental prices. Because if we have done it with the COVID test and with the masks and it has worked, if we have done it with the gas and it has worked, and where it has also worked - in Catalonia, for example, where a law was passed, even with Junts - now is the time to pass the housing law. Mr. President, listen more to people and listen less to vulture funds. [[Applauds]] You also spoke of Catalonia, just a mention. He has been very brave with Catalonia, but to de-judicialize the conflict is not that the State Advocate accuses for a crime that did not exist to the independence leaders at the time of the events, that goes in a different direction from what was agreed at the dialogue table. And I believe, by the way, that the dialogue table should be convened again, as you have spoken of Catalonia. Mrs Gamarra, the law of yes is yes it does not have to be reviewed, it has to be applied. You spoke today about women's right and if it were on the right, in this country women would not have the right to vote, to travel without marital permission, would not have the right to abort - Mrs Gamarra, withdraw the appeal before the Constitutional Court -, would not have many rights, to divorce, for example... [[applause and rumors]] [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u123	Quiet, please. Mr. Hispan, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, all these rights have been won by the impulse of the progressive left forces and with the opposition of the right. [[Let me give you a round of applause.-Protests.-Several Members: Nooo!]] Read history, please; read history! This January we learned two things: what would happen if you won the elections and lost them. If they won, involution and cuts in women's rights, as in Castile and León; if they lost, they assaulted institutions and threatened democracy, as in Brazil and before in the United States. [[rumors]] That's why they're warming up the environment by talking about a hidden plan, because they still don't recognize the legitimacy of this out-of-the-box government, they've still kidnapped the judges' government. [[Rumors]] Mrs. Gamarra, the thing about Brazil is not a protest before a legislative chamber, it's not some sort of disorder, it's something more serious, it's a rebellion, there was violence, it's an attempted coup d'état. [[Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo makes affirmative signs]] He says yes with his head, but you, when you're in front of a coup d'état, because you see coups d'état everywhere... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u125	Quiet, please. Mr. Asens, wait a minute. [[Rumors.-Mr. Guijarro García and Mr. Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon utter words that are not perceived]] Quiet, please! Mr Espinosa de los Monteros, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u126	He said you see coups everywhere, but when you have one in front you look the other way. And I'm not talking about the 36, which for you was a fight between brothers, I'm talking about Brazil, which happened recently, and they use, as you did, that coup to criticize the government. We are the only country in Europe where the main opposition party uses Brazil's coup to attack its own government. Forty years have passed and they cannot yet be approved on the right of the other countries. It's got to be 40 more years, but we don't have that time. I'm on my way, President. Mr. Abascal, may a gentleman from VOX say he knows nothing about pregnancy, but if women want to interrupt one they have to hear the fetal heartbeat first, that's cruelty and that doesn't save lives. [[Rumors]] What saves lives - term - is that no child has to wait an hour and a half to receive medical assistance, as happens now in Castile and León; what saves lives is that hospitals and outpatients do not close as happens in Madrid, that does save lives. [[applause]] Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u127	Thank you, Mr. Asens. Mr Echenique Robba has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u128	Mr. President, first of all, happy year. You appear today in this House, although many have not yet noticed, to report on the last two European Councils and also on measures to protect citizens from the economic consequences of the war in Ukraine. It's a lot of subjects and I barely have ten minutes, so I'm going to go to the most important thing, with conciseness. But first, a preview. Mrs. Gamarra, although it may look like Sesame Barrio, I think you need it. In this House we make the laws, and those who apply the laws are the judges. [[Rumors]] At the moment what happens with the law of the only yes is a problem of application, it is a problem of poor application of the laws; in fact, the majority of the courts in Spain are applying it well. [[rumors]] And it is true that there are a minority of judges who are misapplying it, this Government will continue to work to ensure that the law of the only one is yes properly implemented. Second of all, and with respect... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u129	Excuse me, Mr. Echenique. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u130	Secondly, I have to tell you that your legislative proposal is basically to return to the previous law, to the law of the herd. [[Rumors]] This would not only be a step backwards in rights, but it is also the opposite of what the European Parliament is saying, which has said that it would be appropriate for the rest of Europe to replicate the law of itself. Finally, Mrs Gamarra, you govern with those who deny the macho violence in Castile and León and with those who want to blackmail women who want to abort, so I ask Mrs Gamarra, you and the whole of your corrupt party, a little bit of shame on this issue, a little bit of shame. [[protests]] [[Applauds]] On this point, Mr President, you know the position of our group: we have always been against the shipment of arms that could favour a war escalation. You said in Davos recently that we have to negotiate with everyone, including Putin, and less badly than you said, Mr President, because if I get to say it myself or Minister Belarus gets to say it, we would be being skinned for two weeks in the media. [[Rumors.-Several Members: Ooooh!]] We think that is the way, Mr President, the way of diplomacy, the way of dialogue, and not what we have heard here from the PP, which is asking for tanks, tanks and tanks, because it seems that it is now the tanks. [[Rumors]] Many lines have been crossed in the shipment of weapons, now it seems that they are being asked to send tanks; the next thing we know is to send bombers or, next, to send more powerful ballistic missiles that can reach Moscow. I don't know if anyone knows where this could end. We are very concerned about this drift, so we ask you what we have always asked of you, and it is that, humbly, Spain is the courageous voice of diplomacy and peace in the European Union. Another very important matter, and partly as a result of the first one that was discussed in the councils, as you have very well commented, was the reform of the electricity market. I have to tell you at this point that our parliamentary group is very pleased with the position that Spain is defending in this area. We are, in fact, so pleased that the Government has proposed to tap into the hydroelectric megawattage and nuclear megawattage that we have totally forgiven the first Vice-President who said that this was demagoguery when I proposed it myself in August 2021. I like to say that many of the proposals of the United Nations may, first, be Bolivarian or cheap demagogy; then, they are impossible; then, they are illegal; then, the European Union does not leave us; then, they start to sound a little good, and, in the end, they end up in the BOE. The truth is that we are happy that this proposal is coming to the final stage, and you know that you have all our support to carry it out because Spain is doing exactly what it has to do in Europe right now, and with regard to this matter. I shall now refer to the latest steps the Government has taken to protect the people of our country from the economic consequences of the war in Europe. Again, I allow myself to choose the most important topics by adjusting to the time I have. To put it in context, you have explained it very well, Mr President, the government has taken very courageous measures which have led to Spain having the lowest inflation in Europe, to unemployment being at the very least since 2007 - no matter how much the right and the extreme right are shouting, and no matter how much they do hand-picking demonstrations - and we have come to a situation in which we have one of the most robust economic growths, as you have also mentioned, Mr President. This has been done primarily through two channels. Firstly, a strong public investment, a strong increase in public investment; I am thinking of the check of 200 euros, I am thinking of the minimum living income, I am thinking of the increase in pensions, which you have commented on, or I am thinking of aid to the sectors most affected by the crisis. This is very important, we have done this over all these years, and this is still being done in the last package of measures. But in addition to strong public investment, there is also a second package of measures that, we could say, means breaking the neoliberal taboo that the market cannot intervene. The government, in a very courageous way, has intervened the electricity market with the gas cap, has intervened the housing market massively with the 2% cap or with the extension of contracts, and has intervened the transport market with a spectacular and very useful drop in public transport in Spain. In fact, this measure seems to us so important and so good that we would make it structural, because it is key to combating climate change, allows families to arrive at the end of the month and improves mobility. It seems to us to be an absolutely excellent measure. As I say, the government has intervened in very important matters, in very important spending chapters for families: rents, energy and public transport, but I also have to tell you that we think that we need more ambition in two spending chapters that families still face: variable-type mortgages and the basic shopping basket. It is true that the Government has acted on these matters, and we welcome it, but we think that we need to go further. As you have said very well, Mr President, our country is being set as an example by many international bodies, as well as by neighbouring countries. Almost everyone outside our borders recognizes that Spain is doing well, recognizes that our measures work, and the curious thing about the matter is that until a few months ago we were told that they were impossible measures. Mr President, you have said that we must not comply, and I ask you not to comply and to put some kind of ceiling on variable-type mortgages, and above all, I ask you to put maximum prices on a basic food basket and, at the same time, help small businesses with direct aid so that they can cope with these measures. The current price rises are unbearable and the big supermarkets do not hold their shoulders, they are not doing so, and we cannot allow the ruthless capitalism of Mr. Juan Roig and other food magnates to decide what families can eat and what cannot. Of course all this can be done, and not only can it be done, Mr President, but we also think that if we do so, we will lower the underlying inflation, help families to reach the end of the month, continue to drive strong economic growth and make the Spanish example even more enviable internationally. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u131	Thank you very much, Mr Echenique. The Confederal Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has accumulated its turn in this turn. Mr Santiago Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u132	President. On the 46th anniversary of the massacre of Atocha lawyers by ultra-rightist gunmen, we pay tribute to all the women and men who sacrificed their lives to end the dictatorship and bring democracy to us. [[Applauds]] Spain does not deserve the right to banalize Triple A. The ultra-rightist organization, which was also forty-six years old yesterday, claimed responsibility for the murder of Arturo Ruiz, who was recognised as a victim of terrorism. Mr President, it is essential to continue to adopt measures to alleviate the effects of the crisis, especially among working families, but the most necessary thing is to end a war that is having terrible consequences on lives and victims, as well as economic, social and labour consequences in Europe and the world. Let us end this conflict as quickly as possible and avoid future wars in Europe. A year after the invasion, the war finds itself in a situation of catastrophic tie, in a military and arms escalation of unpredictable consequences, with increasing involvement of nuclear powers, where it is not possible to defeat one of them, unless mutually assured destruction; a scenario of high risk, of atomic catastrophe. Partnerships are being built in Europe to send state-of-the-art tanks, but there is no single initiative by the international community to achieve an armistice, ceasefire or end-of-conflict agreement. Neither the United Nations nor the Organization for Security and European Cooperation, born to end wars, are playing an active role in ending the conflict. The lack of peace proposals is worrying. Mexico, China or Turkey have made proposals to end the war and have secured humanitarian arrangements for the release of cereals from Ukraine. Various European institutions, such as the Community of Sant'Egidio, work for peace under the auspices of the Vatican, but there is a lack of a voice in the European Union willing to lead a peace initiative to strengthen its strategic autonomy, which also links the United Nations and the OSCE, a voice capable of saying that this war will not have a military victory. Spain can be a power for peace and life, just as we are already a power in social, economic and employment policies in Europe. The solvency and authority shown by the coalition government to improve people's living conditions puts us in optimal conditions to promote peace initiatives. The Spanish Presidency of the European Union is an opportunity to build peace for our diplomacy. Peace is the law of synthesis, the only way to guarantee all human rights for all people. Mr President, nothing is worth working to achieve a great peace agreement and end a war. Let peace in Europe be the axis of the Spanish Presidency of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Santiago. Finally, Mr Gómez-Reino Varela has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u134	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Abascal, although - as usual - you are no longer in plenary, I would like to make a point. Today Mrs Ayuso has not been crushed, Mrs Ayuso, what has happened to her is that the student with the best academic record of the Complutense University has placed her in her place, and I think that the Democrats have to thank Elisa and all the students for the unwavering defense of the public university that they have done today in front of one of the people who beat her. [[Several Members: Hala!]] [[protests]] [[Applauds]] Having said that, gentlemen of the right, today you come with your frenzy of authoritarian rudeness, of future calamities that are going to happen to this country, you know, the illegitimate government - by the way, to illegitimate pre-constitutional and Francoist flags that were seen this Sunday in your demonstration in Cibeles Square - ; you come here with that corollary, but who are your allies in Europe? What are they? What is your curriculum in Europe? [[applause]] You come here and your allies are the Visegrad Group, those countries that are against women's rights, against the right to abortion, that are about to lick the rule of law. And let's talk about the People's Party. What is the curriculum, the national example of the People's Party? The highest unemployment rate, Andalusia, governed by the People's Party [[Several Members: Halaaa!-Rumores]] The lowest rate of spending on social policies, health policies and education policies, Madrid, ruled by the People's Party. And what is the highest rate of inflation in the Spanish State? Castile and Lion, ruled by VOX and the People's Party. That's the curriculum of the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And all of you, ladies and gentlemen, who have voted against the ERTE, who have mocked the Iberian exception, look, the data from your allies are: Hungary, 24% inflation; Poland, 17% inflation; and Italy of Meloni and Mr Berlusconi, 12.5% inflation. Inflation in Europe is synonymous with right and extreme right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applauds]] I'm done. It is a pride to be the country with the lowest inflation in the whole of the European Union. It is a pride to be the country with policies on equal terms, in terms of employment and in terms of social policies, which are an example for Europe as a whole, and I believe that we must continue to do so. Mr Sánchez, we saw him in Davos, I think he made a good speech; in fact, it could have been an intervention that could also have made our political space. There was a film by Nanni Moretti in which he told Massimo D'Alema: 'D'Alema, say something left!'. Let us continue to say things on the left, because it will be best, once and for all, to stop this group of authoritarians, both in the Spanish State and in Europe. Thank you. [[Several Members: Very well!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u135	Thank you, Mr. Gómez-Reino. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u136	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, having come to this point, it is obvious that the question is no longer whether this is the last year of the legislature, it is obvious that the question is whether this will be the last year of this government as we know it. And the answer, as in almost everything and as almost always, is that depends, depends. What is clear, what is certain is that it is this very Government that is buying ballot papers for it to be so. I'll explain myself. While citizenship, the people of this country have lunch, eat and dine every day with a different judicial war, with different TV lies and with a different demonstration of feces on the street, the response of this government and any government that is valued, that has a certain left self-esteem, cannot be so rat, so rat and so temporary; so temporary. Mr. President, you're right, you're right. The tsunami, the apocalypse that the right-wing foretold has not arrived; that is true, that is certain. But it is also true that you, faced with that false threat, simply devoted yourself to spreading umbrellas; that is also true. I have commented on this, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, on many occasions, and I repeat it again, especially to you, Mr President. You, Mr President, will not be thrown out of Moncloa an excess of courage at national level. You, no matter how much you write, no matter how much you say, will not get Moncloa - ladies and gentlemen of the government, believe me - to pardon political prisoners. You will not be forced from Moncloa to reform a Penal Code or according to what anachronistic offences of the Penal Code. You won't get an ultra manifestation out of Moncloa, really not. You, Mr President, in any case, can get rid of Moncloa an excess of social prudence, and this, in short, is an excess of prudence in alleviating what really matters to people, in alleviating how hard people's lives are getting. [[applause]] Look, I read an extraordinary article by Victòria Oliveres and Raúl Sánchez in El Diario the other day. I read: Frying some potatoes today costs 36% more than a year ago, making a biscuit costs 32% more than a year ago, making a tortilla today costs 27% more than a year ago, making some lentils today costs 14% more than a year ago, ordering two pizzas today costs almost 10% more than a year ago, taking three canes today costs almost 7% more than a year ago and going to the movies today costs 3% more than a year ago. [[Laughter]] These data - some laugh - are people's lives. I understand that to those who go to a polo club this sounds like Chinese, but this is people's lives, it's how hard they are putting the life of a lagent and it's what can really get them out of Moncloa, because perhaps, ladies of the government, light and gasoline have slowed prices, maybe yes, but living and eating no, has almost increased by 50%. Do you know, Mr President, gentlemen of the government, what is the most similar thing that some large warehouses, some large supermarkets have done to lower prices as they tried with any of their measures? Do you know what the most similar thing you have done, for example, Mercadona to lower prices? Lower according to which shelf foods, I repeat, lower according to which shelf foods. This is what they've done. And you know why? Because they can, because they can; because lowering the VAT on food indiscriminately, without taking prices and without taxing profits - and you know it better than I - the only thing you get is that the state cannot collect and that the profits of the big supermarkets increase, ergo you have to take prices and you have to tax profits. [[Applauds]] And this is what we mean when we talk about courageous measures and in time. Mr President, it is very good that you - it is very good, I mean it - in Davos, look like the Che Guevara with a tie. He's got an extraordinary video about how bad the world is. I'm going to propose three things for this country that may be worth it so that the next time I go to Davos I can claim them beyond speeches. The first, an increase in the interprofessional minimum wage of 1100 euros, I repeat, an increase in the interprofessional minimum wage of 1100 euros that really alleviates the dearth of life, say what the CEO says, I repeat, say what the CEO says. By the way, I am very glad that for some and some Comrade Garamendi has ceased to be Comrade Garamendi and now is what he is. I wish I'd gone through the job reform. [[Applauds]] Two. Real tax reform. 1 % of the world's population, I repeat, 1 % of the world's population, has as much as 99%, and I say this because it is extendable to all our countries, to all our peoples, to all our neighborhoods, to all our municipalities. When taxation spoils the richest, it becomes a scam for the poorest. By the way, these days 200,000 millionaires published a letter asking them to raise their taxes. No Spanish, and having them, there are them. It should be remembered once again that the taxes are the doctor who heals you and the hospital where you do it; the taxes are the firefighter who saves you and the means by which you do it, and the taxes are the teacher who teaches you and the school where you do it. So it would be very good for those who have the most to pay a little more taxes. [[Applauds]] Three. An effective housing law. And this doesn't mean a medal for someone in a ministry, it really means taking prices; it means identifying tensioned areas really, and that the territory does, because it's who knows the most, who knows the most, and not that it's done from an office of a ministry, and it means above all that there are no owners who believe that instead of tenants they have slaves, especially. By the way, Mr President, in full negotiation of the housing law, you have met in Davos with one of the biggest evictions, I repeat, with one of the biggest evictions in this country: the CEO of BlackRock. In fact, a year ago he did, too. What did you talk about? What did you talk about? Because he hasn't stopped unravelling. I hope this has nothing to do with the reluctance of the PSOE to approve according to what things: the housing law. [[Applauds]] I ended up with a reflection and a question for all of you. The reflection. Ladies and gentlemen, what is really important, let us say what we say, is no longer the threats to this government; what is really important is the threats to this democracy. The question is whether in this country we will see an assault on Congress, if we will see an assault on the Senate... [[Rumors]] Calm down, don't feel alluded to. [[Applauds]] Or if we're going to see an assault on any parliamentary chamber. And the answer is that it's just a matter of time. [[Protests]] Don't feel alluded to, really, you're making a fool of yourself.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u137	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u138	Calm down. Because, ladies and gentlemen, democracy needs good winners, I repeat, democracy needs good winners, but above all, democracy, any democracy, needs good losers, and the right has shown that it has the flag it has - and believe me, I know what I'm talking about - never knows how to lose, never knows how to lose and believes that the countries are theirs. An example in this country of these attacks from the right to democracy is the attack from the right, from the right to the right to elaborate. And when I say it's an attack on democracy, it's because the right to abortion is part of the core of democracy and secularism of any rule of law. The rights are neo-liberal in the economic, but feudal in the social, and it should be claimed, it should be said. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, rights are not binding. The right to divorce does not force you to divorce; the right to homosexual marriage does not force you to marry a homosexual; the right to a dignified death does not force you to die; the right to a trans collective does not force you to be trans, and the right to abortion does not force you to abort. The rights do not oblige, it is the rights that oblige, and so it must be said, because when on the right it cares a lot about the beating of an unborn fetus and it cares very little about the living conditions of an abandoned minor who has arrived on the patera or on the bottom of a truck, what shows is that his only religion is money, that his only homeland is the market and that they are hypocrites. [[applause]] [[Applauds]] And the question, to finish. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the year of elections, as I said at the beginning, and we all know that this makes things very difficult, but the question we have to ask ourselves is whether we will have a second chance to do what we have to do. The answer is we don't know, so let's try to take advantage of the time. For example, the budgets of the Government of the Generalitat, the budgets of Catalonia are 13 billion for health and 2000 more residents to try to alleviate the waiting lists of the unit. That there are no budgets in Catalonia, does it affect Republican Left? Yes Does it affect you, does it affect the PSC? Also. But do you know who else it affects? People, people. [[Applauds]] Because, in addition, everyone will know why it happens: by an electoral calculation. The question and plea I ask you is: In the remaining months, why work for our parties if we can work for our countries? Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u139	Thank you, Mr. Rufián. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mrs Illamola Dausà.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon to everyone. Good afternoon, Mr. President. Mr President, we can all stand in front of the mirror and see or want to see only the positive. That is what you have done: talk about the positive aspects of your government action. Listening to you, Spain is the paradise-thanks to you, of course. Lucky you admit that not everything is done yet. But the mirror has another sadder, more hidden and darker face that cannot be obviated and that in the time I have I will try to highlight. Article 4 of Law 8/1994 provides that the Government shall appear before the plenary after each ordinary or extraordinary European Council to inform and discuss. Mr President, I think it is a little late, because one of the European Councils was in October. I don't know if the reason why you don't come more quickly is that they're not important issues. In the conclusions of the October European Council they say that there has been a debate on how collective pressure on Russia can continue to increase. Can you inform us of the outcome of the debate? Was there any concrete agreement? Perhaps these are the three energy regulations that you mentioned, but I am surprised by the speed in the legislation of the European institutions. Individually, has Spain stopped buying Russian gas? You have cited the momentum of interconnections, but it is sad to see that it will be Italy that will have a new pipeline with Algeria, because it could have had Spain as well. Has Spain fulfilled all the commitments of military aid to Ukraine? You are pleased that Spain is the fourth country with the most welcome in international protection. What about the rest of the refugees? And the management of the Ceuta and Melilla fences? With regard to the December European Council, can you please explain to us what points of discussion are described in the conclusions as strategic on southern neighbourhood relations and transatlantic relations? Nothing is specified in official documents, and it is assumed that their appearance is to inform us of what does not appear there. It is true that I asked the Secretary of State for the European Union, but it was you who was at the meetings. They also say the conclusions that welcome Croatia's entry into the Schengen area. Well, in this space, have you discussed France's invasion of the Pyrenees? They put it on the table? I suppose you know that it is not a re-establishment of controls that France is doing in the Pyrenees, that it does allow Schengen, but a closure of borders for more than two years. How have you defended citizens' rights? Why don't you use all the instruments that allow Union law? Why don't you file an application for non-compliance? They did do so by supporting the Commission decades ago, when France was dumping agricultural truckloads, but at that time the violation was affecting different States. Does Spain react only when they violate the rights of its citizens if they also violate the rights of other States? Does Spain alone not defend its citizens? Are there first-class citizens and second-class citizens? Are there rights that are defended and others not?, because you in your appearance have said that you govern for all citizens. The friendship and cooperation agreement with France, signed last Thursday, states that the Schengen acquis and freedom of movement are to be preserved. Is there going to be any change? Are you going to try to get France to comply with its obligations? Apart from what appears in the conclusions, I suppose they will talk about other issues. I'll put three on him. [[The Lord]] The High Representative, Borrell, has publicly said that he will leave office when the Ukraine war is over. Does he know the date? Has it been communicated to you for being a member of the party? Have you communicated it to your Government because you proposed it? Has it been communicated to its partners in the European Council? because it is part of the meetings. Among the representatives of the other States, do they compare how some countries face espionage? For example, the European Parliament and the Greek have set up a committee of inquiry into the espionage of Pegasus. It was prevented here by the government parties. It seems that a European Parliament mission will come in March. Will they provide information about spy government members and the 'catalangate'? Finally, how are you going to explain at these meetings that your party will vote against a resolution by the European Parliament condemning Morocco for violating its rights and demanding freedom of opinion, freedom of the press and the right to a fair trial for imprisoned journalists? Or is it that your party may not defend these rights? Of course, the PP will also have to explain why they did not vote in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u141	Thank you so much. Mr Bel Accensi has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u142	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers. Soon. President, we have supported most of the measures taken by the Government to deal with the consequences of the war in Ukraine; indeed, some of those that we have adopted and ratified today have also been agreed with our parliamentary group, such as free public road transport on the lines of state ownership. We have done so on this occasion and we have done so on other occasions, but that does not mean that we do not have contributions to make or that we understand that we have not all complied with our approaches. For example, has the fight against the increase in CPI been a success? Yes, it was a success, I won't deny it. Do we have a problem with the underlying inflation? I still do. Do we have a bigger problem with food shopping basket prices? Yeah. Does this royal decree favour the fight against this problem? Yes, but from our point of view we understand that discriminating against certain elements and excluding them from the VAT rebate, for example fish or meat, is not a sound policy. Moreover, in the case of meat it rains on wet, and the sector ends up taking it as a stigmatisation of meat, as one of its ministers did. In any case, we will be submitting amendments to that effect. It's finalizing the legislature and we have to take stock. On European funds, we believe that we need to be more diligent in implementing them. Perhaps giving more play to the autonomous communities and giving them more capacity or room for manoeuvre could be better implemented. We finish the legislature and there are some commitments that are still pending. There's a year left and I'd like to know if you want to meet them or not. He said they have made a selective tax reform. Yes, indeed, selective, but the compromise was to make a full tax reform. There was a commitment to renew the system of financing the autonomous communities. Are they going to renew the system of financing the Autonomous Communities? There was a commitment to amend the local hacienda law. Are you going to amend the local finance law now that the municipal governments are approaching? Your mayors, your candidates would get a good start. A few weeks ago, nine years have passed since the People's Party passed the LRSAL. The Socialist Party pledged to reverse it. They're gonna do it? Are they going to fulfill the commitment of some thousands of socialist mayors and a few hundred from Catalonia to modify the LRSAL? [[Applauds]] In any case, Mr President, there are still a few months left in the legislature and there is room to remedy some of these shortcomings. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u143	Thank you. Mr Errejón Galván has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, if we live in a time that is so distressing and so uncertain, it is because it is traversed by an asphyxiating contradiction. We all see, on the one hand, that this life is humanly unjust, that it is social and ecologically unsustainable and, on the other hand, it seems to us as if it were immobile, as if we were doomed to be spectators of a slow collapse, as if we could do nothing. I believe, on the contrary, that this is what politics is for. The policy cannot be limited to managing this anguish. Politics has to come out of powerlessness and it has to be recovered as the everyday art of deciding on our lives, and for that we have to be able to propose a future. Today, in the midst of urgency and anguish, however, we have the possibility to find and embark on a course of the future. The COVID, the war or the climate crisis have shown that the ideas of selfishness and predation are a very dangerous fraud and, in addition, they are a fraud that has very short legs. So much so that even in elitist international institutions and forums new ideas are emerging. I'm not naive, I don't think it's so much out of conviction as out of necessity, but new ideas are opening up and that opportunity needs to be taken advantage of. Ideas of fiscal justice and social justice are on the way to curb a galloping inequality that is already incompatible with the economy, with freedom and with democracy; ideas of strong and responsible states are on the way towards their societies, and even the idea of democratic economic planning is on the way to get out of it and govern our future. This is actually the reason why the Spanish right is in the intellectual stumbling block in which it finds itself, because it goes around the world talking bad about our country, but it turns out that no one understands it, and no one understands it because it speaks a dead language, it speaks the dead language of neoliberalism and the recipes of the last century. That's why the bandages, that's why the proposals you make and then withdraw, that's why you're unable to find and define yourself. I recognize you, Mr. Sánchez, that I liked your speech in Davos. I liked that you spoke of inequality, that you spoke of solidarity and that you even pointed out a different model, but you will agree with me that after such a speech important duties and important tasks are derived back to Spain. That new consensus must be applied to the very end and to its ultimate consequences. First of all, with inflation. Inflation has victims and is guilty. The victims are working families, whose wages are increasingly used to buy less, and the culprits are a few who are being supplied with abusive price increases, starting with large supermarkets, where milk and oil are already worth 30% more or bread for celiacs is worth 34% more. That, Mr President, does not stop the fall in VAT, because that margin is eaten by the same people, and it does not stop with subsidies to the large ones, because even the International Monetary Fund has said that the 20 cents of petrol have been left behind by the gas stations. That, in order to curb it, needs to put an end to abuses, intelligent price regulation and tax limitations on extraordinary profits. Secondly, the climate crisis obliges us to make the ecological transition, but this is not only necessary and urgent, it is also an opportunity, careful, not so that the four big companies always make green balls, but to democratize the economy, industrialize the country, generate quality green jobs and be able to aspire to better lives. Finally, Mr President, there is something about what I always insist on, but it is a question of social justice and also of human need. We were before, but especially after the pandemic we are a broken country; we are a broken country by a permanent, daily pain that affects millions of people. Yesterday we met in the press a heartbreaking testimony, but like that there are hundreds of thousands, and all of us here know one in our environment. A 23-year-old boy, without financial resources, enters a hospital and receives a clear diagnosis: he suffers so much that he has a very high risk of taking his own life. But since there is not enough means in public health, it comes out with a boat of anxiolytics in one hand and with a prescription for the psychologist for the next year in the other hand. That is why Spain is a leader in the consumption of anxiolytics and why eleven people are taken away every day in our country. Mr President, antidepressants cannot continue to do the work that politics does not do. Every means must be put in place to ensure that life does not hurt so many and that mental health is a right for all and not just a privilege for those who can afford it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u145	Thank you very much, Mr Errejón. Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The campaign has already begun for the right. We see him today and we see him every week we come here. I have been in this Congress for eleven years, seven years with the PP and four years with the progressive majority, to which I voted, and I am sure that this progressive majority must continue to govern the country and the Valencian Generalitat. Comparisons here and there admit no doubt. The measures taken in these crises, that of COVID and that of the war in Ukraine, with right-wing governments would have been worse. We saw it with the PP from 2011 to 2015. It was the time to save yourself who could, citizens, pensioners, businesses; that is, we saved the banks. But to revalidate progressive majorities we must be brave, we must give solutions to the citizens' problems and we must treat the territories, also the Valencian, well. In the real decree that we adopted today, the aid for ceramics is clearly insufficient and, moreover, textiles, fruit and enamels, which are the basic sectors of the Valencian economy, have been excluded. Therefore, we ask you to rectify. The shortening of the deadlines for environmental processing, to install solar plants, we understand that we need to rectify. Farmers in southern Alicante, Vega Baja, Murcia and Almería must be assured that they have enough water to do their work properly. We cannot allow the right to reopen water wars that end up benefiting them and confronting citizens. And finally, Mr Sánchez, you have outstanding duties with all citizens, such as, for example, regulating rents and guaranteeing decent housing; raising the interprofessional minimum wage, which is the best guarantee to fight against inflation; repealing the law bites at once, and regulating purchase prices. You have to use the BOE and not the qualifying adjectives. More Y, less adjectives. And with the Valencians he also has outstanding duties. We need resources and fair funding to improve our health and strengthen our primary care. We do want to invest in health, not like the Community of Madrid, which prefers other things. We do want to invest in health, so we ask for good funding and allow Valencians to recover Valencian civil law, as they have eight autonomous communities. We don't ask for the moon, we ask for absolutely reasonable things. Thank you. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u147	Thank you very much. Mr Rego Candaimil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u148	Good afternoon, Mr. President. For a matter of time, I will focus only on two of the issues you have addressed: energy and war. In relation to the first, it seems to us positive that, after months and years in which political forces like the BNG have defended it, they are opening up to a review of the regulation of the electricity sector, but it seems to us that we need to go further in order to end the legalized scam that the marginalist system represents for the whole of the citizenry. Energy production must be placed under public control, because if electricity is an essential good it must be at the service of society as a whole and of social and economic development and not only for the big business of electric oligopoly. Therefore, it is not true with speeches - in Davos or here - about the extraordinary profit of large companies, we have to act coherently and, unfortunately, we see that there is no such thing. Today, a decree has just been validated which provides for an extraordinary credit of EUR 2 billion to compensate for the theoretical deficit in energy costs: oligopoly never loses. We, the BNG, defend public energy companies and immediately top the prices of electricity and fuels to final consumers or a Galician electricity tariff to compensate for the social and environmental costs we bear in Galicia for our status as a surplus producer of electricity. It is of justice, as you yourself acknowledged in connection with the request of the president of Aragon. But we also advocate a new model of energy production, among other things, abandoning that predatory wind model that unfortunately took a new step today with the validation of the royal decree law that eliminates the declaration of environmental impact on public exposure in wind projects. A misconception and a blow to the popular interests for greater profit of the big companies in the sector. This puts us before the new capitalist dystopia in which, in the name of a green future, the environment and the way of life of thousands of people are destroyed, especially in the primary sector, that is, the future is destroyed and we cannot allow it. Secondly, in relation to the war in Ukraine, this Government and the European Union insist on fuelling the belligerent escalation rather than working actively for a just and lasting peace with the early withdrawal of the Russian army from Ukrainian territory. Another EUR 500 million in military aid, amounting to around EUR 50 billion, is fuelling the prolongation of the conflict, in a dangerous dynamic that risks escalating to a direct NATO confrontation with Russia or even to a military conflict. In any case, it is a scenario in which the people of Ukraine and Europe lose the most, while the United States continues to do business, especially after using this conflict to overcome the resistance of governments like Spanish to increase military spending. As we have often pointed out, the BNG is firmly committed to peace, and calls on the Spanish Government to take a strategic turn that involves working actively on the political and diplomatic paths towards the end of the conflict as soon as possible. To achieve peace, we must work actively for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u149	Thank you. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Sanchez, you're satisfied today, you're happy, you're looking out of your chest. Every time you come from some European Council or Davos you look good, but my question is: why do you feel more comfortable outside of Spain than inside? I'd like to have a president of the government who was just as comfortable inside as he was outside of Spain, because if not, do you know what's going on? That you seem to be the president of another country, the president of another reality that is not ours. Why? I recognize that your presidency has not had easy circumstances, and I am not going to make any jokes about the core of the earth as you have said, although I am going to keep up with it, but it is true that you have not had an easy presidency. It is also true that there is an abyss between the reality that you are trying to look at and the life of the Spaniards, because the day-to-day life of the Spaniards and the forecasts of Spain for the coming decades in crucial aspects are very hard. Mr. Sánchez, a few days ago, what I think is the best metaphor of your term: a game of pétanca fake. You, in an attempt to show that you are a close and normal person who walks normally through the streets of Madrid, organized a game of lying petanque, with supposed random retirees, which turns out they were veterans of the PSOE. This game of petanque was scripted and one of the veterans of the PSOE had to say the following phrase: Champion, you speak English well. [[Laughter]] This gentleman turned out to be the Electoral Action Secretary of the PSOE of Coslada. Well, like all this, because your presidency is based on a great farce that began with the lies you said in the campaign. I remember perfectly hearing him say, "I will bring Puigdemont myself in custody." Now what's missing is putting the Falcon on him so Puigdemont can come quietly. But it follows the farce, because there is an abyss between what you say happens in Spain and what happens in Spain. I am not going to add to the catastrophic line that we are all going to die, that Spain is not going to come out of this and that we are worse than ever because no, because Spain is going to overcome this crisis despite you; it is going to overcome it as we have overcome all the previous ones, but it is true that on the way there are going to be many people, there are going to be many opportunities, there are going to be many families, there is going to be many young people's future. That's why we can't be as happy today as you are. You say that in Spain no one is staying behind. You say that in Spain the crisis has hit families less than in other countries, but that, unfortunately, is not true. We are the country that will later recover the GDP before the pandemic and we have the highest unemployment rate in the European Union, not just youth unemployment, but general unemployment. We have the worst youth unemployment rate, the worst birth rates not only in Europe, but in the world and the worst job insecurity rates. When it comes to purchasing power, we talk about how much you can fill the shopping cart for families and, above all, the quality of the food you can fill the shopping cart with. Spanish families know a lot about this, how it has diminished not only the amount of things that can be bought, but also the quality of the food that can be bought. Not to mention middle-class families, who never access those concrete aids that they see you advertise on TV and who have to continue paying for school, children's clothes, private classes, the car, the house and if they need a person to help them at home to care for older relatives or children; in short, that average kind of super payers that are still forgotten. It is true that most of these problems are not new, Mr Sánchez, they have not started with you. But it is that it has deepened in many of them with you. Why? Because to solve them you have to make courageous reforms, and you are not making courageous reforms, as neither dared nor will the lords of the People's Party, because they are both conservative; the PSOE and the PP are conservative of the great evils of Spain. You come today with your group to defend a real decree that is the third that brings us to, supposedly, face the measures of the crisis; I suppose you will bring a quarter because it will not have been enough. I tell you two things - speech has already been made this morning by my partner - of course it is insufficient and, above all, there are many measures in this royal decree that you said just a few months ago that they could not be done because Europe prohibited it. As always, a true farce, it was a farce that Europe did not let them take some of those measures. And what's happened all this time? That we have wasted time, that families have lost time, money and opportunities. A separate chapter deserves pensions. I know some of you will say, "We're going to talk about pensions again." Yeah, let's talk about pensions because we're the only ones who dare to say that what you're doing with pensions is breaking the pension system. While in other countries reforms are being made to ensure sustainability, you are doing electoralism, of course by wasting the pensions of future generations. Look, the average wage of young people since 2008 has risen by 3%, but average pensions have risen by 40%. We have just heard about this, which I am sure will be of interest to the Minister, whom I do not see here at this time. Social Security has already told us that the increase in pensions - only the increase - will cost us EUR 12 billion more per month. That is, in January 2023 all Spaniards will pay EUR 12 billion per month more than in 2022. The Ministry of Science and Innovation has a monthly budget of 330 million; you are spending almost four times as much on increasing pensions as throughout the Ministry of Science and Innovation. This is a country that cannot prosper. I also want to talk to you about health, Mr. Sanchez. When you present these reforms to Europe and your partners tell you how they are going to guarantee basic services, I tell you that it is one of the main problems of the Spaniards. There are abysmal differences in access to treatment for cancer, minister, depending on which autonomous community you live in; there are abysmal differences in waiting lists according to which postal code corresponds to you; there are abysmal differences in the survival of diseases according to which drugs are passed by Social Security or not; there are abysmal differences in childhood vaccination. I'm telling you as a mother because I'm moving between different autonomous communities and it's a horrible mess. Mental health has been abandoned and we have eleven Spaniards killing themselves every day. But who do we have at the head of the Ministry of Health? We don't have a minister anymore, we have a candidate for the City Council of Las Palmas. That is why we also dare to say that we must refocus the skills that are necessary to ensure fairness in access to treatments, in access to diagnostic tests, in the best coordination of resources and also, of course, in access to health records. I imagine that the latest health news we know about the minister is when she announced the elimination of masks in the means of transport, I suppose it will be some electoral measure for her campaign to the city council. As far as education is concerned, you have also had to carry out educational reforms in Europe and you have said that this measure will improve the dropout rate. No, it's not going to improve it, it's going to mask it because you allow the kids and the kids to pass the course without approval. Finally, by telling you something, you have talked a lot about working classes and how you have raised the salaries of civil servants. Look, between the average salary of civil servants - from the public sector to be more accurate - and that of the private sector there is 1000 euros difference. Mr Sánchez, you talk a lot about progressiveism and that you care about the middle and working classes, but I can tell you that there are six times more humble family workers in the private sector than in the public sector, and you are much more defenders of that indexed Spain, of that Spain that charges according to what the State Official Gazette says, than of that Spain that is in the private sector, of that Spain that suffers worse conditions and of that Spain that has to lift the blind every day. Mr. Sánchez, your policies are not progressive, and I'm sorry to tell you this because I notice you very happy because in Davos - I'm sure you like what I'm going to say, Mr. Sánchez - you've seen yourself as a kind of Robin Hood of Davos, but actually here, when you leave public health, when you leave the next generations before pensions, when you leave educational quality, when you leave birth and put a backpack of debt to middle and working classes, you're not progressive, you're using measures to endure another day. And another difference between what you are trying to sell and what it is is actually in Spain's leadership in Europe. Mr Sánchez, you spoke for an hour in your initial speech and did not comment on the most important issue that has taken place in the European Parliament and on Spain's position in it in recent weeks. Will you not pretend to leave here today without explaining why Spain has voted against condemning Morocco's abuses? Won't you think to go without giving an explanation? What interest do you have in covering up or helping Morocco to cover up its abuses? Can you explain it to us? Or, for example, in Ukraine. Really, I'm sorry, but you can't flag the leadership of support for Ukraine when we're always profiled when sending military material that is asking us Ukraine, which is a request from Ukraine. Yes, you laugh a lot, I don't know if Ukrainians will laugh as much as you will. In short, Mr Sánchez, you rule in very difficult circumstances, that is true, but there is an abysmal difference between what you want to make sell and what you really know happens. And it is true one thing, Mr Sánchez, unfortunately Spain has had worse democratic quality since you are President. And I don't need to be told any international indicator, just to see that you've made a criminal code tailored for four criminals. You have controlled the Prosecutor's Office as no one dared, the Constitutional Court, the State Advocate, the Court of Auditors; you press the judges. Is that what you tell your European partners, Mr Sánchez? Because you can't be progressive and treat four privileged, embezzling and seditious politicians with privileges. Finally, Mr Sánchez, you said that the situation in Catalonia is better. Mr. Sanchez, do you know what happened in Catalonia? That infamy has been normalized. Do you know the last infamy that has happened in Catalonia? That two councillors of his party have recognized that they pressured hotels to kick out national police, as if they were dogs, in the middle of the night on October 1. Do you know what the consequences in your party have been that these councillors have assumed these facts? None. Why? Because you have normalized infamy. The last infamy today is that Mrs Ayuso has suffered a condemnable and intolerable crash at the university and the Minister of Universities has come out to defend him. You should resign, Minister, for defending a slave in the public university to anyone, not just a president of an autonomous community. [[Applauds]] Sánchez is trying to do with Spain what he already did with the Socialist Party. In a masterful metaphor of Ignacio Varela - who knows something about PSOE and knows something about transition - he did a taxidermy exercise with PSOE, emptied it of ideological content, eliminated any kind of internal control or criticism and made it the perfect platform at the service of a person. Well, it's the same thing he wants to do in Spain, that's why he attacks the opposition, that's why he colonizes the institutions and that's why he weakens the state by the hand of those who have never hidden that they want to destroy it. For what? To put Spain at the service of a person. But I tell you one thing, you've blown up all the security devices of democracy - the airbags, the seat belts and the emergency brakes - because you've attacked the judges, the police, the media, the prosecution, the opposition and everything. But there is good news, and it is that we do not have to resign because there is still the biggest system of defence of Spanish democracy. A tool that Mr. Pedro Sánchez has not yet dared to eliminate, which are the Spaniards in the ballot box. And I say more. It's not enough just to get Pedro Sánchez out of the government, because we all remember what happened when Zapatero and Rajoy left, and Rajoy didn't even dare to undo his clumsiness, we have to get Sánchez out of the government and we have to rebuild Spain among all of them, and that is also in the hands of the Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u151	Thank you. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We heard of the convening of this special session to talk about both European councils held in October and December last year by the usual channel, the SER chain. [[Laughter]] A reference to the measures taken by the Government to deal with the economic and social consequences caused by the war in Ukraine appears on the same agenda item, but as we discussed and voted on it this morning in your absence, Mr President, let me go directly to European affairs, although this will not prevent me from referring to other related domestic policy issues. First of all, to Caesar what is Caesar's. I recognise, Mr President, that sufficient vision to understand that the ability to do so in internal policy was absolutely dependent on an effective policy on your part within the European framework. He could read perfectly that de facto Spain was no longer an independent State to use and that the gravity of the situation made it impossible for him to leave the bache himself. Yes, it is true that its commitment has finally made Europe accept the need to change the system that sets energy prices and, of course, it would be ridiculous to deny that the Iberian exception is helping at this difficult economic time. On the other hand, Spain has probably been one of the most committed countries in the struggle to get the idea to create the Next funds that could get the economy out of this great crisis. By the way, despite a pandemic and a volcano, these funds have provided him with amounts not managed by any other Government, unimaginable to any other Government and, moreover, out of budgets, without parliamentary control and with suspended fiscal rules. Paraphrasing the saying, where there is flour - European flour - there is no mohine. Today, there is no doubt that, with the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, Spain, by its demographic and economic weight, is being opened up opportunities for gaining influence, and I cannot deny that it is progressively achieving this, and clearly, with regard to Italy, which is under surveillance with its extreme right-wing government. A good example of this is the Spanish-French summit held last week, which, with the completion of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation, represents a significant step forward that has hitherto been unthinkable. I believe, however, that on this occasion you have not been able to read the opportunity which, in terms of internal policy, offered you this quotation. You signed with us, in the investiture pact, an agreement by which you pledged to facilitate Basque presence and participation in Europe. It has not moved a finger: neither the Ecofin nor OECD nor other forums where, for example, the existence of outland haciendas would justify it. But let's go back to the Barcelona Summit. It would have logically been that, beyond inviting the President of Catalonia to a mere protocol greeting, you would have invited him and some other member of the Generalitat to take part in the summit, joining the Spanish delegation. It makes perfect sense, President. On the one hand, in the practical field, because many of the competences that will be developed through this treaty will depend on the governance of the autonomous communities, but also on the political field, because that would have been an important gesture towards Catalonia. I am going to tell you more, I think I could have even used it to have representation of the Community of Labour of the Pyrenees, of which all the autonomous border communities and the corresponding French regions are part. [[The lady]] The Lehendakari, the current president of that community, sent him a letter with the priorities that all these regions had unanimously set at the last meeting. And it's not that I just say it, so do some of your co-religionaries. The MEP and good friend Nacho Sánchez Amor usually points out, with regard to the equivalent Treaty of friendship with Portugal, that it makes no sense for the autonomous communities not to be represented, since on that porous border many of the relevant competences and services are in their hands. In short, he has missed an excellent opportunity to deflame, to have a gesture with Catalonia and to fulfill the investment agreement he had with us, and he still has. Considering that you have two national hot potatoes, I think it would have been smart to have advanced during this legislature in these kinds of gestures rather than constantly repeating that the process has ended. This mantra of your ministers should also be over because it is more a provocation than a search for a solution and I do not know whether it will be worth them as an electoral slogan, but I would not call that political precisely. Let me remind you that the Treaty Act, in its sixth and seventh provisions, Mr President, provides that in any treaty which is to be discussed a matter of foreign policy, a representative of the Basque Autonomous Community and another of the Navarra Forum, foreign policy matters ranging from education to agriculture, must be present in the Spanish delegation. This is not that they have failed to comply with the agreement of the Legislature Pact, it is that they even fail to comply with their own legislation. You can look it up on the Internet, Mr. President. With regard to the war in Ukraine, we will support the European policy of aid to the Ukrainian Government not only in the humanitarian field, but also in the military and financial fields, as reflected in the October Council resolution. By the way, the absence of the Spanish representatives at the Rammstein meeting is surprising. What's the reason? There's a lot of talk now about the German Leopards. Germany remains committed to not allowing third countries to transfer this weapon to Ukraine. I doubt that Germany is the right country to calibrate the situation, let us not forget the encroachment with Nord Stream which, with such short vision, was about to make Europe, then yes, totally dependent on Russia. Although just released less than an hour ago a news report pointing to a German-American agreement involving the sending of American Abrams tanks and the authorization to third parties to do the same with the Leopards. As long as this is confirmed, we continue with half-way decisions as if we are not sufficiently involved in this conflict. Macron's condition that the Leclerc tank assignment does not affect France's defence capabilities is disconcerting. Are you going to declare war on Spain? Are you going to invade Luxembourg? Anyone who does not understand that European, French, German or Spanish defence is playing today in the fights of Ukraine or wants to amend the agreements of the summits or wants to launch a smokescreen on their true intentions. But, apart from the German Leopards, Poland and other allies, Spain has developed and manufactured its own version, the Leopard tanks. You have 347 units, of which about 250 are operational, and I am aware that they have also been requested. What is your opinion on this? What is the position of your Government? On the other hand, Mr President, we have the southern flank, with a hidden war, but which causes victims, between Morocco and the Polisario and with a European Parliament that I would not say surprised - because everyone knew the pressures and influence of Moroccan diplomacy and paradiplomacy - but stunned by the revelations of the purchase of wills and votes within it. If this happens in Parliament, what will not happen at government level? And yes, I have to tell you too. What a drink your PSOE colleagues had to pass in the European Parliament by voting against the majority resolution condemning Morocco for violating human rights, freedom of expression and the press, but it is a similar, but identical, hindrance to that of the PP representatives who were absent from the vote in order not to portray themselves. [[Mr. Hispan Iglesias de Ussel pronounces words that are not perceived]] What a Spanish horn! And everything to cover their positions in the new turn of relations with Morocco, which has turned its back on its responsibilities towards the Sahara and makes deaf ears to human rights. All in order to get Morocco to control its borders, one in the government and the other in hiding in the opposition. President, you say that you voted against because there are elements of the resolution that you do not share. What are they? Don't confuse prudence with pusillanimity in front of a powerful neighbor, so you don't end bullying. The massacre in Melilla's fence should lead us all to reflection. We cannot act as if nothing had happened, as if we had nothing to change, and at this point, Mr President, I have to tell you that in the area of asylum they are not telling the truth to the European Union, in particular to the Court of Human Rights. You justify expulsions because the expelled have not followed the legal path of asylum application, but the reality is that it is impossible to apply for asylum in Spain because you have decided not to develop the regulation so that this right cannot be exercised through embassies and consulates, so it is not worth saying to the European Union that those who do not follow the procedures are rejected. Simply, Mr President, there is no procedure to follow, and point, and this has been highlighted by the complaint lodged by a young Sudanese through a legal team at the Spanish embassy in Rabat. Make the regulations, make the means, make the right of asylum effective, in the way that a progressive Government should do. Only then can rejection at the border be justified in law. Speaking of migration, Mr President, you have surprised us with a decision on this matter that your Government has neither shared nor communicated. I am referring to the construction of a macro-centre for refugees in Vitoria-Gasteiz. I share with you the need to open up more places for migration - and, of course, we do not refuse to allow them to be in Euskadi, of course not - we do not think this system of macro-centres is appropriate, because it does not contribute to the real integration of people in their environment. Finally, the Director of Management of the Reception System says that there is no Basque host model and that the competence is the State and they will do as they please. But let's be realistic and say things as they are. You do not have sufficient means or capacities to manage migration and asylum, you are constantly resorting to the help of autonomous communities, municipalities and NGOs. Either this matter is carried out in coordination or we will be doomed to failure, and we do not want it either you or us. You committed yourself to your signature in the investment pact to eliminate conflicts with the Basque Government by reaching prior agreements. He invited his Government to dialogue and to reach agreement on this matter. We extend our hand to him. Speaking of that pact of legislature, President, you have also avoided another very important point during all these years, whose wording was discussed and agreed by the millimeter, as Mrs Calvo well knows, which referred to the amendment of the legislation in order to be able to accommodate the different feelings of belonging in a proper way; in short, to address the Basque and Catalan national lace. However, instead of moving towards a possible consensus in the reform of the Basque Statute, of taking steps forward in a political way that would accommodate the broad demands of the Catalan people, you have been delaying and delaying decision-making with the invaluable help of COVID or the great excuse of VID. If you do not want to face it, it will inevitably be us who will have to present this debate, and if you open, as you have done, the constitutional melon in the last year of the legislature, this is a must to be able to test your will, beyond the fact that there are sufficient majorities, but it is necessary to start putting on the table some matters without even advancing, at least debate. And the last year of the legislature is the opportune time, because the constitutional reform requires for some articles, after the approval by the Courts, the dissolution of these and their ratification by the new Parliament. But, Mr President, aside from the national issues, there are other issues that are on the day-to-day not only of the discussions, but of the debates in the cafes and at work, and I am referring to the anti-democratic interpretation that is made of the inviolability of the head of state. Society is shocked by the behaviour of the former head of State and because the courts and legal doctrine continue to interpret that inviolability, as enshrined in the Constitution, covers not only public acts, but also private acts, as the head of State does in his private life. Under no circumstances could he take her to court. The equal before the law is constitutionally true, less for the king. I would like to think that Zarzuela claims that the Spanish monarchy is likened to others in its European environment and not to those of distant latitudes. When we proposed to interpret this article through the Organic Law of the Judiciary, we were answered from the Bureau of Congress that it was inadmissible, because we had to do so by amending the Constitution. Well, we can do it now. And another thing, if that were not changed, it would be incomprehensible - I am addressing both the PP and the Socialist Party - to look elsewhere, to discuss it in the media, but not to address it in Parliament. Or is it that this Parliament agrees that the king can commit a crime without being tried? Does this Parliament agree on that? At the beginning of my speech I said - I conclude - that I was going to give Caesar what is Caesar's. I'm sure that Caesar's thing doesn't take it at the foot of the letter internalizing a kind of almost omnipotence. It is true, Mr President, that on the other side of the Chamber today there is nothing that can really cast a shadow on it when it comes to reaching a majority. The temptation to play white and black must be great and you're a guy with baraka. That's a gift, but don't be careless. In case, I will imitate the work of one who was in the chariot with Caesar in his triumphal parades to whisper in his ear: remember that you are mortal, memento mori. It is very tempting to think that this legislature is already done having been approved the budgets, it is obvious that it will be able to end the four years, something that many did not bet at first, did not give it a hard one. Its view is already more placed in the next parliamentary term, this plenary session and next week's plenary session are good examples of this. It is in part your merit, of course, but consider that it has been possible to reach this point because of the collaboration that has been provided by various parties. Some members of his Government often tell us how we won't support something if it's on the government program, but the government program is a coalition of two parties that don't have a majority and that we don't belong to. Mr President, do not intend to take us this year from the rope, pulling, causing legislative debates that in the ideological way can strain the seams of the circumstantial suit of the government alliance. Do not think that everything is done and that the camp is free in front of the electoral debate. This year it is up to him to take care of his parliamentary partners. The omnipotent temptation to play chaos or I am great, I know, I understand it perfectly, we are not blind, but it seems to me that if you do not take care of the disheartened garden in which this Parliament has become and does not subscribe to relations with its possible allies, this legislature will seem to you a way of roses compared to the next one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u154	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, we opened 2023 and closed the legislature. With today's plenary the final straight begins and, although we will still have time to take stock, no one escapes that we are within the time limit to make quiet decisions and commit to the progress that has been promised, yes, but that is still pending. I am not going to go into assessing the social, economic, energy or transport measures contained in the last decree adopted by the Government because, although you have outlined them in your speech, only a couple of hours ago we have already discussed this. I will therefore focus on the initiatives and the position you have been taking in recent weeks in different European frameworks, from the European Council or from the Davos Forum. Starting with the first, you defended at the last Council the need to tap gas at European level and the need to reform the marginalist energy pricing system currently in force. Well, Mr. Sánchez, I can tell you that we share both proposals. Moreover - you will remember, I suppose - from Euskal Herria Bildu and other left-wing groups we have been constantly demanding the need to end the pricing system for which we pay all the energies, regardless of their cost of generation, at the most expensive price. It is an anomaly that is generating not only crazy profits from energy companies, but an unbearable inflationary escalation for citizens and also for States, which must invest billions of euros in alleviating the consequences that this generates. As long as some are supplied, that is, the energy companies, banks or large companies of IBEX, the government must invest billions in rescuing citizens from the consequences that these same companies, thanks to the current system, generate. They create the crisis and others, that is, the citizenry, pay it. Round business, yeah. We have repeated this many times, Mr Sánchez: the problem is not just the war in Ukraine, which has obviously aggravated the situation, but the current economic system itself, with its energy or financial aspects, is the one that is breaking and generating this social and economic crisis; in the face of this, positive measures have been taken to rescue, social and economic shields, and even some that mark the path of what should be transformed, such as the Iberian gas cap mechanism, taxes on energy, banks or large fortunes, or social protection measures aimed at areas such as housing, pensions or transport. We value all of them, yes, but they have a great but, and it is that all of them are temporary and insufficient. This brings us to Davos and to his intervention in front of the world elites, those who are feeding at our expense and causing people to suffer. You said: you know that the system is not fair, that it is full of injustices and inequalities, that it is time to fix it, and we cannot agree more. During the pandemic I repeated to him countless times that we did not need to rebuild the unjust system in which we live, but that we should transform it into a more just and respectful one with the rights of people and the maintenance of life and the planet. Listening to you in Davos seems to have assumed it and that you stood before those responsible for the successive crises, against the faithful defenders of the neoliberal system that we suffer, like the leader of the European left, the beacon of the transformation of the system. It might seem so, yes, and I wish it were, Mr. Sanchez, but then comes the small letter. You said in that speech that we cannot ask citizens to continue to endure inflation while big companies do not pay taxes, evade them and continue to enrich themselves behind people's backs. Once again, we fully agree with you, but the small letter tells us that your Government still does not face the enormous tax evasion in its own State and that, when, finally, after much insistence and pressure, it decides to apply a tax on energy and banking, these taxes are temporary for only two years and with a fiscal pressure that barely scratches its huge profits, those that you denounced. And let us not speak of the timid imposed on the great fortunes, which - oh surprise!- their party, together with the PNV, pretend not to apply in Euskal Herria. Great words, timid deeds. You accused in Davos that the current system generates injustices for, then, meeting with the head of BlackRock to boost investments in Spain, investments with one of the most important vulture funds in the world operating in the real estate market and the IBEX through the large Spanish bank, making housing a business property rather than a universal right, such as the right to housing, that your Government and your party have tried to prevent by braking and lowering the housing law. Again great words, but timid deeds. You also said that our citizens are losing purchasing power, and you said this at the same time that your Minister of Social Security, Mr Escrivá, was proposing an increase in the period for the calculation of five-year pensions, which, of course, will entail a cut in pensions and the consequent loss of purchasing power of the pensioner collective. It is good to make great speeches full of transformative and progressive rhetoric in international forums, but then, Mr Sánchez, we must comply with what is said in front of the citizenry. And as we're talking about fulfilling, I'm going to stop at the three major pending subjects that this government has for this time off from the legislature: the law on citizen security, pension reform and the law on housing. I would like to be clear with you, Mr Sánchez, as we always are: Euskal Herria Bildu is not going to support any law or reform that cuts down on rights or freedoms of citizenship, and this applies to these three laws. You, in the campaign, in the government agreement reached with Unidad Podemos and also in your own investiture speech, committed yourself to repealing the law of the People's Party, returning the dignity and sufficiency of public pensions and ensuring the right and access to housing. Today it has not yet fulfilled any of them. Today, the first vote should have taken place on the new law on citizen security, a sort of law mordaza 2.0, which neither repeals the PP rule nor eliminates the most harmful aspects against the rights and freedoms of citizens, so we baptize it like this, mordaza. The PSOE aims to maintain the use of rubber balls, unjustified sanctions for disrespect and widespread allegations of disobedience without any justification or continue with hot returns. The gag, ladies and gentlemen, is holding. These are issues, all of them, that we have been demanding not only to eliminate since the beginning of the work of this law, but also bodies such as Amnesty International or Iridia, and even European institutions, have pointed out as necessary to amend if we want to illuminate a law respectful of basic rights such as freedom of expression, assembly, information or protest, and to end abuses. You refuse to touch a single coma of all these articles. In Euskal Herria we know well the use of the law gag against social, trade union or political protest; we know well what use the different police forces make of it and much of the Spanish justice. That's why I'm moving you back to your request to comply with what you promised, and let's get rid of all the harmful articles of this PP law, which you now don't seem to want to repeal. If not, and by many interested information, by many lies or pressures that we can receive from the government parties, if we do not modify these articles, the most harmful of the norm, will not count on our vote. If the PSOE and United We can claim a new law gag 2.0 without abrogating the most harmful issues, it will only be your responsibility, we will not be complicit in it because we commit ourselves to ending the law gag, as you did, and we will keep our word, but the question is why you have renounced yours. They say that we are in maximalistic positions, it is curious because until just a few months ago these petitions were the minimums that both PSOE and Podemos...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u155	Mrs Aizpurua, forgive me for interrupting you, but I am obliged to ask you, please, to focus a little on the reason for your appearance, which are the European Councils and the economic and social measures approved by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u156	I was referring to something the president has mentioned, which is government commitments. I believe that if the President has been able to speak on this subject, it is logical that I can answer it too.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u157	Mrs Aizpurua, please continue the intervention.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u158	Thank you. What I have been saying is not from a struggle between partisan positions between one another, Mr Sánchez, from which rights we return to the citizenry or not. We have the will and the willingness to reach a good agreement that I respect that citizenship demands of us, and so I want to convey it. We have worked hard for this and we are ready to continue trying, if you return to the initial joint consensus to end the law of the PP and its abuses, and the same goes for pension reform. We are not going to accept the claim to extend the period of calculation of pensions until the age of 30 because they are cuts, cuts that will mean the loss of purchasing power of a collective, the pensioner, who has been attacked for many years. We will not contribute to this, so we ask you to rectify and we feel like talking and negotiating a reform that is really positive for pensioners and that can improve their conditions. We will not let go of the thousands of pensioners who for five years have been fighting from every square in every village of Euskal Herria for decent pensions for all. As for housing, despite the constant brake and blockade imposed by the PSOE and the Ministry of Transport and Urban Agenda, we believe that thanks to the push of the left forces there is an opportunity to illuminate a housing law that represents a real advance in the access and maintenance of a decent housing. The regulation of rents, the new regulations to prevent and hinder evictions, the measures against the large tenants, the protection of the people who live in rents or the shielding of our own competences in the field of housing can constitute the body of a sufficient law that responds to most of the demands that have been made for so many years, for so long by society, associations or left-wing forces. There is still work to be done and progress to be made, but we hope to be able to achieve a law that offers access, guarantees and stability to the millions of people who aspire to decent housing without having to give up their lives for it. We'll keep working to make it happen. I'm done, Mr. Sanchez. There's a few months left in the legislature, time runs out. During these three years everything has happened - it is true - and more or less correctly the plurinational majority that exists in this Congress, together with the Government, we have tried to respond with social and economic measures to protect people, important and necessary measures that we value positively, although we would have liked them to be deeper, bolder and more structural. But you always tend to put the brake on, yes, to put the brake on. If you have proved something these three years - and as the ERC colleague Gabriel Rufián rightly points out many times - it is that you do not do, you are forced to do it, because the reality is that most of the social measures of silence have been driven by the plurinational left-wing formations that we make up the majority, and I think it is also fair to recognize it, along with the residential part of the Executive. If it had been for you and your party, Mr Sánchez, if I had not needed the votes of the Basque and Catalan sovereignist lefts many of the measures would not have been taken, and most of them, if not all, had had a much smaller scope for the automatic initial opposition of your ministers to the proposals, which, yes, after long negotiations and pressures they end up having to accept; that is the reality. It would be good if, after proclaiming the need to change the system vis-à-vis the world elites, he preached with the example vis-à-vis the citizenry and proposed, or at least did not prevent, new decisions of silence that began to transform in social, economic and territorial terms the great deficits that this State still carries, because thus, Mr Sánchez, it is won to the right and to the far right, advancing, not resisting. Eskerrik asko. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, which now has its turn in reply, Mrs Vehí Cantenys has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u160	Thank you, President. President, ministers, Oxfam Intermon, within the framework of the Davos Forum, made public the data that the richest 1% of the world accumulates more than 60% of the wealth. This frightening photograph should guide all public policies of all governments around the world. And today, President, you have told us a story about your Government committed to equality and social justice, but we have a feeling that you and your advisers are trend-oriented. And we are glad that the trend now is to be left-wing, but there are some issues that do not fit us. Let's try to explain them with the little time we have. His party in Catalonia is conditioning the approval of the budgets to the five major demands of the employer: Winter Olympic Games, expansion of the airport, macro casino, destruction of the pilot program of basic income and Quart Cinturo. Normally, you are very concerned about the Catalan right, but do you know that your claims are the same as those of Junts per Catalunya, exactly the same, those that defend the powerful? Esquerra Republicana has denounced from this stage the cosmetics - she said - of its policies, but it also plays to make these five proposals of the employer the key to approve the budgets, while it has doctors and teachers on the street on strike. In addition, his Government was favouring the deployment of European funds by large corporations, and today's royal decree practised the extension of wind and electric macro-projects to meet environmental controls. Moreover, you are treating inflation as if it were an isolated phenomenon of inequality and of who has more and who speculates, and so you do not end inflation. President, if you want to end poverty and inequality, we are fully committed, but you have to protect the weak, you have to nationalize the strategic sectors, you have to control prices, you have to regulate rents and you have to work for universal basic income. In addition, he assumes that today in Catalonia the politics of the left goes hand in hand with independence, because the politics of the left implies having sovereignty. But in its winds of progressiveism, when the national question enters, progressiveism shines through its absence. And you have spent the whole weekend comparing the manifestation of the Spanish ultra-right with last Thursday's independenceist demonstration, and this can only have two reasons: either your advisors think that people don't understand many things and that the simplest thing is to explain that you are the measure of all things and the rest are foreign allies that we have no judgment, or your electoralism has led them to cynicism. President, independence questions your country model. I will tell you more, the independenceist left questions him that private property and profit must be more important than the right to housing, that war and military spending is leading to nothing good, that agreements with Morocco to defend the southern border violate human rights and that Pegasus requires more explanations and responsibilities. By the way, today we know that there will be a delegation from the European Parliament to investigate - the same thing that has been done with Poland and Hungary - something that is not compatible with your Europeanist speech today. Imagine if we confront the country project, Mr. President; we are in the antipodes of your country project. [[Rumors]] But the extremes are not touched, Mr President, in fact, in southern Europe they have not even been sprayed. In politics not everything is worth and the winds of progress must inevitably assume that the social majority of our country wants to decide its future in freedom. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u161	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please. I give the floor to Mrs Oramas González-Moro.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, inflation is the tax of the poor, the worst, the most unjust and the most damaging to the most vulnerable. Well, that inflation has allowed this government to raise almost EUR 110 billion for the IRPF, a figure that had never been seen in this country; with VAT almost EUR 25 billion above last year's collection, and it has not been because people have consumed more, but because they have had to pay much more for what they consumed. Mr President, I am sad to say that these extraordinary incomes have been achieved at the expense of the extraordinary poverty of the Spanish people. You have refused to reduce the tax burden on families despite the fact that inflation has impoverished them, but we must also analyse the failure of minimum living income. In the Canary Islands, ladies and gentlemen, where we have a population of more than 300,000 people in severe poverty, only 26 000 were granted - a disaster - because we have turned bureaucracy into hell, because there is a digital gulf, Minister, that separates vulnerable people from those who can help them. Inflation has also created a new social problem: the working poor. There are families who feel ashamed to resort to social services. Human dramas, Mr. Sanchez. Not to mention the requirements that Hacienda is making to return amounts unduly collected in the ERTE during the pandemic. People who do not arrive at the end of the month are being demanded to return money they received because of an error by the Administration itself. The speech that the rich are going to pay more is no longer believed by anyone, Your Honor. Those who pay the most are citizens, those who no longer subsidise fuel, those families who make the purchase, with price increases that do not cease, those who have to pay interest on the mortgage or those who can no longer bear the price of the rentals and for whom the rent aid does not come by the requirements and the paperwork they require. And now they want to arbitrarily set the price of rents, they want to take the price of food products, they want to intervene in the energy market. He wants to apply the recipes of the affected and kidnapped economies of the Bolivarian countries, as his government partners claim. I imagine that, in the west wing of Moncloa, in that series that is going to be broadcast in this election year, you will explain to us how this country has changed where the rich today are richer and the poor, poorer. You, as I told you, insist on the speech that the rich have to pay more, but so far those who have paid more with your government are the middle classes, the workers and their families. You're an unrepeatable politician, Mr. Sanchez. It defends the Constitution, but it governs thanks to those who want to abolish it. It's against the invasion of Ukraine, but I'm just trying to justify it so it doesn't bother its pro-Russian partners. He wants to squeeze the nuts to the rich, but he meets them in Davos. It has a feminist government that has passed a law that puts sex offenders on the street and has not wanted to correct it for their childish pride, as Mrs. ManuelaCarmena has said. He filed a motion of censure against a right-wing government because it accused him of corruption and has ended up softening the crimes of embezzlement. It is in favour of the weakest, but it has left the people of the Sahara abandoned, you are able to order their MEPs to vote against the defense of freedoms so that their electoral summit with the king of Morocco will not be ruined. As Juan Fernando López Aguilar said yesterday, in Morocco if you have to swallow frogs, you swallow. Pure contradiction, Mr. Sanchez. But it does have a rule: do whatever it takes to stay in power, even though consistency is left on the way. Mr. Sanchez, stop it. Let me tell you something. Those who live so long at the tops can suffer from an ailment of height. From so above we sometimes lose sight of the things that happen to those who are below, in the valley of poverty and the difficulties to reach the end of the month. Sometimes, president, you win the world, but you lose your soul. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u163	Thank you very much, Mrs. Oramas. Mr García Adanero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u164	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. My solidarity with President Ayuso, who has suffered political violence today and who has also been democratically elected. [[applause.-Protests and rumors]] Yeah, yeah, sure, who do you guys want me to be with? With those who support Sanchez? No, of course not. I am one of those who is with all those who pretend not to repeat themselves as President of the Government. Normal. It's obvious. I'm not going to be with Esquerra or Bildu. [[Protests]] Sure. I am not going to be with Esquerra and Bildu, who, as you have already seen, have passed the bill to him today and told him that he has not yet fulfilled all that he owes them yet and time is running out. Obviously, we must avoid another Sanchez legislature, because, if not, they have already said what they want for the future. They have said it here and, as you will understand, if Otegi says it's best to have more Sanchez legislatures, I'll be on the other side, always on the other side. [[Applauds]] You'll know what you're doing. Spain cannot be allowed any more governments of Sánchez. And, look, you can't be so proud. A law like the one of yes is yes makes rapists come out on the street. They are asked to rectify and not only not to be rectified, but to laugh at the victims who have suffered such violence. The Government of Spain cannot do that. [[Applauds]] If we do not question what has been said, the Spanish Government is responsible for what is being done. [[Rumors]] Yeah. And it is said here that jobs are created. And what's done? Those who create jobs are said to be ruthless capitalists, and that is what the Spanish government says. The Spanish government tells entrepreneurs that they are ruthless capitalists. That happens today in Spain with the government, yes, the one that president Sanchez. Therefore, every effort must be made to ensure that Sánchez does not return to being President of the Government. You've told us about lithium, hydrogen, batteries or Davos, but it's that people on the street talk about potatoes, milk, diesel, mortgage. That's what people on the street talk about. Since you are president the shopping basket has multiplied by a lot and mortgages as well. People don't arrive at the end of the month and you don't give solutions, because you're thinking of Davos. When you see the land from a Falcon you don't see what's going on in the queue when you're going to make the purchase. People don't arrive at the end of the month, and you say it gives many solutions, but that doesn't fit reality, because everyone who has come out here, even those who support you, has said that you don't see reality. Another thing is that, since they have different political objectives and they are doing very well, they continue to support him. They told him: look, we support him because he gives us the things he gives us. Mr. Rufián told you. He said he still has to pay. It is not worth sedition, it is not worth embezzlement, it is not worth the possible referendum, but it still has to pay for more things. And Bildu Batasuna has also told him, talking about that chimera that is Euskal Herria. He has told him that it is not true with whitewashing, that it is not true with rapprochement, that that is already there, that now he has to continue paying and questioning the work of the security forces and bodies of the State of the Basque Autonomous Community and of the Foral Community of Navarre, through the law gags, and, also, the work of the judges. It is clear that we cannot afford another parliamentary term in Spain with Mr Sánchez. And I, yes, with those who want Sánchez to stay out of government. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u165	Thank you, Mr. García. Mr. Mazón Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u166	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Mr President, first of all I would like to thank you for coming to inform the European Councils. These are very important issues for Spain and today I want to take advantage of this initiative to remind you of a European issue that is key to Cantabria: the Bilbao-Santander railway. This year the new planning of the Trans-European Transport Network must be approved. On the railway, it includes the basic network, which has a time horizon of 2050, the 2030 network and the global network, which has a horizon of 2050. Cantabria has remained outside the Atlantic corridor and its complementary corridors, being the only autonomous community in northern Spain to be excluded. Both Asturias, Basque Country and Galicia all have planned connections with the main axis. And the Bilbao-Santander turns out that in the future transport network will appear on the global network, that is, by 2050, which means that many of us here are not going to see it. The Government of Cantabria has requested that the Bilbao-Santander railway be included, at least, in the expanded basic network with a horizon of 2040. In this respect, amendments have been tabled in the European Parliament, both by the PP and by the PSOE, especially a very strong one, justified by the PNV Member, Izaskun Bilbao. I hope you'll come forward. In addition, there is a factor that particularly concerns your Government and you personally, what is the Presidency of the European Union in the second half of this year, which is when the regulation of the Trans-European Transport Network is to be adopted. I ask you to commit yourself to putting all the meat in the roaster so that the Bilbao-Santander railway is a reality as soon as possible. To date, we have not seen enough force on the part of his Government. If we do not want the railway corridor of the Cantabrian to be what it is now - it is something totally obsolete; it takes more than three hours from Bilbao to Santander, when it takes an hour by car from door to door; it takes from Santander to Oviedo More than five hours, when it takes an hour and three quarters by car - and if we do not want to continue to pollute with that traffic of cars and trucks or wasting our resources in these vehicles, it is fundamental to empower this railway, also for the network of ports of the Cantabrian. In Bilbao it is already planned to connect with the Basque Y the corridor of the Mediterranean axis and the Atlantic axis, and the Bilbao-Santander must be the first step for the future corridor of the Cantabrian. I expect your engagement here today, Mr. Sanchez.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Mazón. Mr Martínez Oblanca has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u168	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President of the Government, your European mask does not correspond to the general situation in Spain, but even less to that with which Asturias suffers as a product of the management of its Government combined with that of its counterpart in the Principality. Asturias is constantly moving away from Community convergence. Its demographic crisis is one of the most acute in the European Union, with a galloping ageing and depopulation exacerbated by the youth exodus due to the lack of employment opportunities and future. The labour force rate keeps the region in the national red light. We have more pensioners than Asturians who manage to work all year round. A disproportionate administration is suffocated in the socialist era of bureaucracy and uncontrolled public spending. Ladies and gentlemen, just two weeks ago the Minister of Transport boasted of the historic milestone of the variant of Pajares, but this afternoon the Secretary of State had to apologize for the umpteenth fiasco on the commissioning of an infrastructure that the Socialists blocked up to six times in this House and whose execution was only possible thanks to the Transport Infrastructure Plan approved in 2000 by the Aznar Government in order to bring us closer to the European objectives. Mr Sánchez, the Asturians are relegated to high speed, who do enjoy the other railway corridors. Meanwhile, the conventional Lion-Asturias line and the network of proximity suffer constant breakdowns and incidences as nowhere else. The major ports of Gijón and Avilés have been excluded from the trans-European freight transport networks, TEN-T. The paralysis of the Atlantic Corridor is also leading to isolation and the consequent loss of competitiveness, economic growth and employment in the north-west of the peninsula. Non-compliance with road projects in El Musel has serious socio-economic and environmental impacts. The south-western Asturian remains delayed and without horizons of improvement. The farmers, desperate, close their farms and leave the countryside. Industrial employment does not recover. The regasifier accumulates ten years and a day of paralysis. Investments have a very low execution. And, in socio-sanitary matters, the state center of Langreo keeps without use sixty residential rooms for neurological disabled people. We have moved away from Europe. Your period of government, Mr Sánchez, has been bad for Spain and bad for Asturias. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Martínez. Finally, Mr Gimeno has the floor for the same parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u170	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when it was decided that European policies to combat the economic and social crisis would be to inject funds into countries instead of applying cuts, as had been the case before, we applaud it. We welcome the arrival of these recovery funds that should facilitate the lives of citizens rather than benefit exclusively large corporations and the extractive model of the resources of the territory. Those funds are being applied, but we have doubts, and not just ourselves. Yesterday, for example, FUNCAS warned that European funds are not reaching the real economy. Since I have little time, I will refer to one of the aspects that we are most concerned about, the uncontrolled deployment of renewables, which deepen a model of extraction more typical of other times and which exacerbate the situation of many sacrificial territories in our country. The Teruel Existe citizen movement has denounced a report by the MITECO that authorizes the installation of 20 wind farms and 122 wind turbines, 84 of them within the Natura 2000 network and 91 in areas of maximum environmental sensitivity of the ministry itself, all in eight municipalities of the Maestrazgo. It will destroy one of the most important natural sites of the Iberian system and also one of the most punished for depopulation. They are lowering environmental controls and regulations to boost a bubble of renewables and forcing neighbours in these areas to pay a very high cost. The regulations contained in the decrees only favour the deployment of large power stations, preventing the participation of local communities and small owners, whose plots can be expropriated. The deployment of energy communities, self-consumption and small projects that could be developed by the social organizations of these territories are not encouraged. That is to say, in relation to the European context, there is indeed an Iberian exception in Spain, an Iberian exception to be corrected, which is the one for which energy communities, especially in rural areas, have not developed decisively in our country. There is no involvement of citizens and local communities in the renewable business projects of their territory, which should reach at least 25% following the European model, and where the protection of the landscape of agricultural and tourism activities of the environment is concerned. Mr President, the territory of Spain which has been emptied cannot be sacrificed by the energy transition. Therefore, we invite you to explain here a commitment on the following points: the territories of the rural municipalities of the emptied Spain will not only be exposed to the voraciousness of companies, investment funds and intermediaries, but the local communities will own the decisions on their future, on the sustainable uses of the territory and its landscapes; forced expropriation in the construction of renewable power plants will not apply; a significant and urgent growth of rural energy communities will be promoted. In short, the territory, the loss of biodiversity and the future of our peoples in the emptied Spain is not the currency of exchange to receive the European funds, funds that are also not reaching the residents of the unpopulated areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Guitarte. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u172	Thank you, President. Thank you, President, for this new appearance, which certifies that it is the President who has most often appeared here, in Congress, but also in the Senate, although some are particularly enraged by these appearances. [[Applauds]] What we have seen today and what we have heard from each other again makes it very clear why this government is the people's government and why this opposition is the opposition of the absolute vacuum, and here are the facts to prove it, starting with what is beginning to happen today: from today on the retired people of this country begin to see how their pensions increase, not the 2 euros that went up with the People's Party government, but 108 euros more a month. [[Applauds]] That is, PP government, 24 euros a year; Socialist government, progressive government, almost 1500 euros a year for pensioners in this country. This is good policy. This is what defines this Government. It is a government that has put in place hundreds of measures, hundreds, to protect citizens, to help the productive economy, to transform this country. Never in our history had so many resources and actions been mobilized to meet the needs and priorities of the country and its people. Never. In fact, since the beginning of this parliamentary term, a huge amount of government action has been deployed: universality has been returned to the health system; the pharmaceutical co-op for the most vulnerable has dried up; ERTE that have saved more than 3.5 million jobs; 150 billion in ICO credits that have reached more than 100 000 enterprises; minimum vital income for families without resources; thermal social voucher; 2 % limit on rent increases; the campaign of vaccination against the COVID; increase of the minimum wage to EUR 1000; the rise of pensions according to the cost of living; the rise of pensions according to the cost of living; the minimum subsistence income for families without resources; the minimum income of pensions for the first time in fifteen years; the limit of 20 cents per lit per litre of petrol; 250 euros for young rents; 400 million in grants and 200 euros more for each fellows; the price of gas; the free transport of pensions in the neighbourhoods, roads and half-uses; the price of gas and electricity, 3500 million for aid to dependence; the cost of gas and electricity, the cost of gas, the cost of gas and 3 500 million for electricity, the cost of gas, the cost of money, the cost of money, the cost of money, the direct to the direct aid to transport, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the oil, the [[applause, which continued while the speaker was speaking]] [[applause continues]] You see, I wanted to make this list because some say that this government has done nothing and because, according to the right, this is all about breaking Spain. All this is to demolish the institutions and little less than to burden democracy. [[Applauds]] For this will be for the right, because for citizens this is the useful policy, which solves problems, which puts itself at the service of the people, which allows them to leave the crisis without cutting benefits, services, aids, rights and freedoms, that is, without cutting lives, which is what the People's Party government did in the previous legislature. [[Applauds]] And today, with the decrees of this morning and with the intervention of the President, we have come to reaffirm that we are going to continue to move in the same direction, that we are going to continue to fairly redistribute the resources and wealth of this country and to fairly distribute the burdens and sacrifices of the crisis. That's social justice and fiscal justice. And all of this isn't improvised. All this is because the government has a plan, has a project for Spain that works, and works very well. That is why, today, the Spanish economy, despite the difficulties that everyone is going through, is the one that grows the most, and far above the average of European countries, and all forecasts and national and international bodies say that this country is going to grow the most in 2023. That is why inflation is holding,5 points in five months, and Spain is today the country with the lowest inflation on the whole continent. That is why, if we are talking about employment, 470,000 new jobs were created last year. There are more people working than ever before, more than 20.5 million members of Social Security, with more fixed jobs and more rights, and, by the way, there are more women and younger people working than ever in the history of our country. [[Applauds]] None of this has fallen from the sky. It is all because the Government knows what it does and works. And how it works, and the horsemen of the Apocalypse have not appeared, which one day yes and another also announced Mr Feijóo, and as the only role that the People's Party has had in all this history has been to hinder, to prevent, to block, because it even bothers them that Spain is doing well. And they have demonstrated it again today when they laughed when the President spoke of this and spoke of the international recognition that the policies of this Government have. [[Laughter]] Again! If we already know that the worse for Spain, the better for the People's Party. [[Applauds]] That's why they deny reality. That's why they disqualify everything they don't like. That's why they block everything they don't control. And in that strategy, you only talk about who we've done things with, who we've agreed with. Of course, with dialogue. But it's very curious, because they never talk about who we make them for, because they probably don't like that for who, because they don't care about that. [[applause]] You are not interested in that for whom retirees and workers, and domestic workers, and young people, and students are; no, you are only interested in attacking the government in any way and at any cost. So, I'm going to make it clear to you: although it bothers you, we have done it with those who have wanted to sit down and talk and agree to raise pensions in this country. [[Protests.-Applause.]] We have done so with those who have wanted to have a minimum living income in our country and not to have the light cut off to those who cannot afford it. We have done so with those who want big companies to pay more in this crisis and not always pay the same. We've done it with them, because you've gotten rid of this whole story. With you none of this, because, surely, none of this went with yours, with the privileged and powerful who one day defend yes and another also every time you go up to this rostrum and every time you press the button when you vote. And it is that we have done it not only here, in Congress, also out there: more than fifteen agreements with employers and trade unions, fruit of social dialogue; dozens of understandings with collectives and associations, which have allowed us to bring here a lot of initiatives. We have agreed with all those who have wanted this country to move forward. But you have not, you have only spoken to one; you have only negotiated with one; you have only agreed with one, with VOX, with no one else and, precisely, on the contrary, to make us back. [[applause]] And as an example of a step backwards is what we have experienced these last few days in Castile and León, days of lies and denials on the part of your party, Mrs. Gamarra. [[rumors]] To clarify us on this whole question and to clear up the doubts, why don't you teach us the agreements you have signed with VOX? Why don't you make them public? Don't they dare or don't they want to be more afraid than they already are? Because the government of Castile and León is an announcement of what they can do in the rest of Spain, and it's scary. The brutal retreat that that Government meant to women was frightening. You see, they wanted to institutionalize what they were doing at the doors of the clinics, they just missed praying. [[Applauds.-Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u173	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u174	But they have tried to stigmatize women who have had to make one of the toughest decisions of their life and return them to hiding, treat them again as objects and deny them the ability to decide about their body and their life. [[Applauds]] Adding suffering to suffering is what they have intended. Let's see if they find out at once. There is no government or state or God who can decide on the body and life of women, only women, because each one is sovereign of himself. [[Applause from the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations We can - In Commu Puem-Galicia in common, some seats on the floor. - Applause from the members of the Government, some seats on the floor. - Continued applause while the speaker is on the floor.]] And don't let us know that these things of VOX, because the one who brought the Abortion Law to the Constitutional Court was you, you, lords of the PP, and now, with VOX, you are the ones who have opposed all progress on equal terms. That sounds more like Orbán, Mrs. Gamarra; that's pure Orbán, Mrs. Gamarra. And it's all been like this in your recent history. [[Rumors and Protests]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u175	Mrs. Vazquez, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u176	Let's let them go, if that's all right. [[Laughter]] But, look, it's all been like this in your recent history. While the government was doing everything in its power to help people, you were showing us your true essence, and you have taught us your great sense of state by going to Europe over and over again to speak ill of Spain. Last week, one more time. You have also shown us your vision of country, how you understand Spain. In the investiture speech, President Pedro Sánchez made it clear that one of the objectives of this government was to be coexistence, and especially to replace the social fracture that lived in Catalonia at that time out of concord. And, little by little, with courageous decisions, with politics and political decision The circumstances of 2017 are no longer lived in Catalonia. Catalonia is no longer Spain's main problem, as it was when this government arrived. Today, coexistence has once again settled down. Is there a problem in Catalonia? Of course, as in all modern societies. That there are independenceists? Sure, it would be good, but they're split, we saw him last week at a demonstration. And what is more important: the independence sentiment today is much less and is no longer a majority in Catalan society, as it was when you ruled. Does that sound bad to you? Would you rather go back to 2017? Doesn't this seem like a better country to you, Mrs. Gamarra? Perhaps it is because your country is a uniformed country, or perhaps because coexistence you define it by confrontation. Well, by doing this, they call us traitors. It's not the first time, we've been called traitors more times and always for the same reason, for daring us. [[Rumors]] Yeah, someone's gonna say that for daring to dream, right? No, it is simply because we dare to use politics to solve the great problems that this country has. They have called us traitors, but I will tell you one thing: for us the betrayal would have been to be in the government and not to have tried, to have done nothing, what you did when you ruled. [[Applauds]] By the way, we are very proud of what we have achieved in the recent history of Spain, precisely because we dare to do so. I am very afraid that all this, as well as its constitutionalism of weekend demonstration when it has been five years without complying with the Constitution and they want to teach us all lessons, is part of their democratic culture. They are going to demonstrations like Saturday in Cibeles and they are delighted, and one wonders: do you really believe that those hate speeches against the president of the government that were heard there are the best democratic pedagogy that you can offer to this country? The president has to be charged! How? Anyway, you've got to load it up. Is that your moderation? Do you really think that those who were there with the flag of the eagle are the constitutionalists of Spain? [[Applauds]] Look at me. Do you really think we're the enemy? [[Several Members: Síí]] Yeah, right? Too bad. Too bad to confuse the political adversary with the enemy. [[Applauds]] That only demonstrates their low moral and political cadre, because they thus become the greatest feeders of populism in this country. Less than a month ago they pointed our finger at us, flooded the nets with our photos, like the number one public enemies, to condition our vote. Well, look at it one by one, one by one, 120 socialists. They have pointed us out with things worse than their fingers, and there will be neither finger nor sign nor sign nor painted that will change our convictions, because we did it out of conviction, and you out of interest.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u177	Thank you, Mr. Lopez. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a few minutes' recess. [[Pause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we resumed the plenary session. In order to respond to the interventions of the various parliamentary groups, the President of the Government has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u178	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank most of the parliamentary groups for their interventions and to really focus on the subject of the call, although there are obviously issues that I am not going to miss and answer, because I think they are worth it and because they are also part of the debate, not only in this forum, but also in recent weeks. Mrs Gamarra, there has been no proposal, there is no alternative. Finally, you have already, by mistake, devoted yourselves to what you have dedicated yourselves to and what I will refer to later, less evil that you did not come to insult. But I do want to talk about some issues, to which you have referred. First of all, I will talk about the economy, because I think it is important. Precisely this week we are going to know the data of the National Institute of Statistics on which the economic growth of the year 2022 will definitely be and the growth forecasts that other international bodies have also thrown, for example the International Monetary Fund, are above 5% in the year 2022 and about 1.2% in the year 2023, far above Germany with growth forecasts of the least 0,6 %, in Italy of 0.3%, in France of 0,4 %. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are doubling and far exceeding the economic growth figures of the major European economies. I am not saying it as self-congratulation, on the contrary, I am simply saying it as the economic context in which it is developing. Well, this is the evolution of our economy and I want to highlight, of course, that many of the things that are happening in our country, linked to this economic data, have to do with this government in Brussels and also in Spain. In any case, I shall refer, Mrs Gamarra, in this block of the economy and also in the European Council to a few sentences that you have been saying over the last few weeks and months, in order to counter some of your criticisms, which I believe are unjustified. You came to say, Your Honor, last July 12, in the debate on the state of the nation, the following. He said: 'Why if Spain depends less on Russian gas than Germany our inflation is 2 points higher?'. And you concluded: the problem is you, Mr Sánchez. That's what I was saying in July. Well, it turns out that Spain has closed 2022 with the lowest inflation in Europe. That does not mean that we comply with the five-point inflation, but it is clear that it is four points below the eurozone average and more than four points below, for example, Germany. That is to say, in relation to our main trading competitors, we are not losing competitiveness. Therefore, if you said that the problem was me, I suppose you, if you think in July that it was Sanchez's fault, now you will not think, so I have inferred from your intervention, that the merit is Sanchez's. [[Applauds]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I do know that what we can agree on is that the merit, of course, is not going to be yours, because you have not supported any of the measures that the Spanish Government has put in place to reduce inflation. [[Applauds]] The other day I read an interesting fact, because since last May Spain - I said it in my first speech and I stress it again today, we do not think happy with these unemployment figures - has been registering and maintaining a level of unemployment below the 3 million unemployed and unemployed. I insist, it remains high compared to the main European partners and the European average, but this is something that has not happened in Spain since 2008, Your Honor. It's 2023. I say all this, Your Honor, because you said, in one of your many manifestations, that labor reform was delusional. You described labour reform, agreed with employers and unions, as delusional. For ten months, ladies and gentlemen, since this labour reform began, and the balance sheet is as follows: we have a historical record of social security membership, with more than 20 million members, in particular almost 20,300000; 800,000 members and affiliates more than before the pandemic and 470,000 members more in the year 2022; 2,300,000 indefinite contracts more than a year ago - let us remember that one of the main problems that our labour market had was precariousness and temporaryity - three out of every four young people have a stable contract, 30 points more than before the labour reform. Is precariousness still a problem? It still is. Do we have a problem with youth unemployment? We continue to suffer, but it is clear, Your Honor, that this labour reform in its first ten months of progress seems to be attacking and tackling the main endemic ills of the labour market. The average duration of contracts has also increased by 25%, the lowest unemployment rate in the last 15 years. Especially among women we have a record membership in the female population, more than 9 million, in particular 9,500,000 women are affiliated with Social Security and young people are at a historical minimum in terms of the unemployment rate. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that there is still a great deal to be done. We still have the highest unemployment in Europe, as we have always had, ladies and gentlemen. But if this data seems bad to the opposition, to the People's Party bench, I say that they will find the 6 million unemployed we have with the People's Party governments horrific or the 57% youth unemployment we had for four years. [[applause]] You said that we would be on the tail of Europe in economic growth, and I think that you would even gain parliamentary effectiveness - if you allow me as a parliamentary opponent a council - if you recognised any merit from this government. Your Honor, to say that the Spanish economy is not leading economic growth in Europe is not to fight with the Spanish government, but to fight against reality. You said and said - you say here - that Spain is behind Europe in economic growth, but Spain has closed the year 2022 by growing above 5%, which is the highest figure of all the major European countries. In the debate on the state of the nation, Your Honor, I spoke from this rostrum of a growth forecast for last year of 4% and, finally, of 5%. And by the year 2023, what I wish for is this, that the same thing happens, that you will again be mistaken for catastrophe and that I will again be wrong because I am short. This is the big difference between you and us, Your Honor. [[Applauds]] Remember, Mrs. Gamarra, when they predicted that Spain would take four years to get vaccinated? And Spain gave an example of the opposite to the world, reaching 90% vaccination in a few months. It is true that you predicted that Pablo Casado would be president of the government, he did not once but a few times, and we are where we are. [[Applauds]] Pensions, ladies and gentlemen. Then I'll come in and answer Mrs. Arrimadas again. I do not understand this mania that has the right, or the right in this case, because there has logically been more Mrs. Arrimadas than you, Mrs. Gamarra, to confront generations, young people with the elderly. You did not support the revaluation of pensions, you said that the system was not sustainable, and you said that when you were in the shilling government, nothing more and nothing less, than EUR 69 billion - I have pointed out here - of the Social Security Reserve Fund. And when you were ruling, with your counter-reform of pensions, you dissolved the Toledo Pact, which meant, among other things, that 0.25% increase. This Government has done what it has done is to rebuild the Toledo Pact, Your Honor. This Government has done what it has done to comply with the recommendations of the Toledo Pact and, moreover, we have done so with the agreement of the social and economic actors and, of course, without their support. That is why today's pensions, as the spokesman for the Socialist Parliamentary Group said, rise by 8.5 % instead of 0.25 %, which is what you are implementing and, by the way, we are not forgetting, 15 % as well for non-contributory pensions. Notice, with the model of the People's Party an average pension would have risen in this context, Your Honor, 2 euros with 39 cents of euro. That is, you spend more on sending the letter to the pensioners than on raising their pension. [[Applauds]] This is what you did when you ruled, and with this government the pension goes up 107 euros, as the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, 1500 euros a year, well remembered. And we do it as we fill out the pension hatchet, which you skilfully do. In these General State Budgets, which you have not voted in favour, of course, as you always do, we are for the first time injecting more than EUR 2 billion into the Reserve Fund. Therefore, the answer, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is simple and it is what really hurts you, and it is that wage dignity and labour dignity also fill the pension box and ensure the sustainability of pensions. If not, look at how public social security income is rising above 8% and how much expenditure is rising associated with social security benefits, slightly above 6%. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, we are now recording more public revenue than we have in the social security system. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, all these things that I tell Mrs Gamarra and the People's Parliamentary Group come in through one ear and come out through the other, because what we are talking about here, ladies and gentlemen, is a hidden plan on the part of the Spanish Government and the evil Sánchez. Do you really, Your Honor, believe - I have pointed out here - that in Spain a plan of constitutional mutation is under way that is kept hidden in the eyes of the citizenry, as proclaimed in the concentration of last Saturday's Cibeles Square? Yeah? [[Laughter]] [[Rumors.-Mr.Hispan Churches of Ussel: It's the Comedy Club]] He says it's the Comedy Club. Actually, it's the Comedy Club. [[Applauds]] Really, Mrs. Gamarra, do you think Spain is on its way to a dictatorship? [[A Member: With you yes.-Rumors]] Really? Do you really believe that Spaintransits, because that's what you said in the demonstration, into a Bolivian-style collectivist regime? [[Mrs Cañizares Pacheco: We are already in it.-Several Members: Yes]] [[Several Members: Síí.- Mr Hispan Iglesias de Ussel points out the seats of the VOX Parliamentary Group]] No, no, they're also saying it on their bench. Do you really think so? [[Rumors]] Don't laugh. Don't laugh, because it's very serious. [[Applauds]] Do you really think so, Your Honor? Because, if you think about it, all this seems very serious to me, it seems to me to be extremely serious. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u179	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u180	What I don't understand is why they took the weekend off and didn't attend the Cibeles demonstration last Saturday. [[Applauds]] I don't know what such an important reason there was not to attend that demonstration, Mrs Gamarra, when what we were talking about was to save the homeland. [[Rumors]] In that, however, ladies and gentlemen, I must admit - and you do not believe it very much, Mr Abascal - a certain degree of coherence to the far right which I do not recognise in you, because if you support these assertions, in my opinion, nonsense, about these terrible dangers which haunt the Spanish nation every time you are in the opposition and we have the honour of being in the government, at least give your face and do not leave for the weekend. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Although, the truth, Mr Abascal, we are still waiting for your salvific motion of censure to rescue Spain from Chavista collectivism. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] However, you will allow me to tell you that this is a strange thing, Mrs Gamarra, Mr Abascal, because you, along with your right-wing partners, denounce that there is a threat of breach of the Constitution. And what do you do to prevent it? Failure to comply with the Constitution for five years. [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: Very well!]] And this, Mrs Gamarra, is not the only weird thing, because also, as some other spokesman has said before, it is somewhat strange to go and defend the Constitution in the company of people wearing pre-constitutional flags. [[Rumors.-Applause.]] It is also strange to come to the aid of democracy and the Spanish Constitution with the heirs of the dictatorship, but, finally, you and your allies have these things. So you denounce that democracy is at risk, that Spain is about to become a dictatorship. The other day I listened to Mrs Ayuso say - how was it? - that Spain was a plurinational republic, feminist and I told us what else things like that. However, what you, Mrs Gamarra and Mr Feijóo, are doing is leaving for the weekend and sending some third-party collaborators to accompany Mr Abascal to Cibeles Square. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, whether this will be a hidden plan, but, of course, it does not seem very urgent, just as you are taking these questions. There's a hidden plan, ladies and gentlemen, that's what the right and the right, so hidden that they only know it. And I tell you, Mrs. Gamarra, with all due respect that you know I have you, that you don't believe that either. [[Applauds]] Also, speaking of you, it's a lot to say that you don't believe it, because you believed that Rajoy was a blessing for Spain, soon believed that Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría was the solution for Spain, a little later believed that Pablo Casado was the hope for Spain, and later believed that Feijóo was the necessary condition for Spain to emerge from the crisis. And when you play, you'll believe it again... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u181	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u182	...that the white eye for Spain will be one or another that we don't yet know. In short, Mrs Gamarra, that neither you believe this tale of the hidden plan, believing the things we have had to hear here. [[Applauds]] I will tell you, Your Honor, what is the plan, which is certainly nothing hidden because it is the plan that is voted here, in the Congress of Deputies, by the parliamentary majority. Our plan is to protect the social majority of this country. The plan is to share efforts equitably so that they contribute more to those who have the most. The plan is to protect pensioners, protect students, protect workers. The plan is so little hidden, as I said before, that we are voting here on the sixth package of measures, for example. And the truth, Your Honor, is that to you that plan, what you want me to tell you, it doesn't work. Other things go to you, like those that you did ten years ago: tax amnesty, freezing the interprofessional minimum wage, freezing pensions, cutting public health, forgetting about dependency. Finally, it will burden the efforts of the crisis on the social majority to defend minorities from the privileged ones you serve. [[All right, cheers. Rumours.]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I see you very involved in this debate. There is another great thing in the proclamations of your Saturday demonstration, Mrs. Gamarra. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u183	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u184	I say your demonstration because I understand that you supported her even though you weren't there that weekend. [[Ms. Gázquez Collado utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u185	Mrs. Gázquez, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u186	According to the People's Party, ladies and gentlemen, the only parties that defend democracy and the Constitution were those who attended last Saturday's demonstration in Cibeles. The truth, Mrs Gamarra, is that yours is a somewhat sad and limited democracy, because if you can only choose between the People's Party and VOX, which is a division of the People's Party, there isn't much choice, is there? Another rarity, and it's yours. The day that democracy was threatened in Brazil by a mob of people occupying the country's main institutions, as happened in the United States, you had the idea to put the following tweet: With you, in Spain it's just a public disorder. That is what the spokesman for the parliamentary group said. [[Rumors]] But if I'm giving you the reason, why don't you let me explain? This is what Mrs. Gamarra put on the day when she was trying to give a coup d'état in Brazil, I'm just contextualizing the tweet and explaining what happened. Obviously, what Mrs Gamarra was doing was referring to me. That's what I got. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u187	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u188	And I also understand that he was doing so because of the reform of the Criminal Code that was approved by the parliamentary majority in this House. In this regard, I would like to say a number of things of interest to you. First, this government, Your Honor, is firmly committed to the democratic regeneration commitment emanating from the 2018 motion of censure. If we look at its past management and compare it with ours, Your Honor, over the past four years in the fight against corruption and democratic regeneration, no comparison is allowed. [[Rumors]] It's not allowed. With you in government corruption became the second concern of the citizens. Today, if you see any demoscopic study, Your Honor, it's at number eighteen. When you were in the government, Mrs. Gamarra, you changed the timelines of the Criminal Prosecution Act, among other things, to promote impunity for corruption cases, reduced the number of police and the Civil Guard - today there are 30,000 more troops than there were in 2017 - and approved a fiscal amnesty in 2012 which is estimated to have benefited politicians and also entrepreneurs immersed in the eleven most important corruption plots. [[Applauds]] With the 2015 reform that you did, and to which you and your party are constantly referring and which, of course, we have amended in that reform of the Criminal Code that you criticize, really what you did was, again, trying to solve a political problem with the Criminal Code. This, in addition to causing legal uncertainty that the General Council of the Judiciary and the Attorney General's Office of the State warned of, aggravated the problem in Catalonia and, moreover, did not avoid the illegal referendum in 2017. I understand that perhaps this reform is not so good for your party, with the long history of misappropriation that precedes you, but I think that for Spain it has indeed been a good reform, because it stops putting in the same bag the mismanagement of public funds with the theft of public funds for private use, which is not the same, Your Honor, which is not the same. [[Rumors]] You talk a lot, when it suits you, about the Attorney General's Office, you also talk a lot about the reports of the General Council of the Judiciary, but let's remember what the Attorney General's Office said, for example, about this reform that you did in 2015. He said: Yerra, the pre-legislator is wrong to consider that misappropriation is a disloyal administration committed by a public official, and this in a double sense. In fact, in the first place, misappropriation is not a property offence committed by a public official; for the largely majority doctrine it is a special, own, autonomous crime, which from a constitutional reading not only protects the public heritage, but also the trust of society in the honest management of State funds. And the prosecutor's report continued: it is not understood why the aggravated subtype disappears that the fact falls on goods that integrate the artistic, historical, cultural or scientific heritage. And he concluded - the Attorney General's Office - that it would be best to leave the type as it is today for the reasons set out at the beginning. It does not seem that sufficient thought has been given to the significance of change. And the General Council of the Judiciary, which, of course, issued a report against the reform that you did for things that had nothing to do with this case, but with avoiding what happened, unfortunately, in 2017. Therefore, behind the noise that you always generate, Your Honor, there are also silences; you have been silenced by strong reports warning you against this reform of the Criminal Code, I insist, of the Office of the Attorney General and of the General Council of the Judiciary. Still, you went ahead, ignoring these reports. On the other section of the reform, the famous sedition, the question I ask this House is: is it good for Spain to approve our legislation to European legislation? I believe it is, because it is progressing towards legislative harmonisation with our European partners. And what does this harmonization mean? I believe that, in addition to clarifying our legal system, there are two important objectives that I believe you can share. First, to remove obstacles from other countries of the European Union in the face of the euro orders, which we have been suffering since 2017, and ultimately to facilitate extradition. What do we do with the new regulation? Not only to update a crime that perhaps had its reason for being when there were military uprisings two hundred years ago; no matter how much they shout and overact, what Spain is doing is to adapt, to approve Europe, to penal legislation that is foreseen according to the main European democracies. Who are we homologating, ladies and gentlemen? Germany, France, Italy, Switzerland and Belgium. They are not failed democracies with fragile rule of law. I repeat, Mrs Gamarra: Germany, France, Italy, Switzerland or Belgium. Does this list of countries tell you anything? Are the actions of 2017 decriminalized? No, no, Does that mean that we protect our legal system, that we limit our ability to face threats? In Absolute, ladies and gentlemen. But, finally, I know that you care little about all these arguments, in what you are in the noise, which does not attend to reasons, however powerful these are. By the way, Your Honor, no lessons on the commitment of the Government of Spain to feminism and the protection of women. [[Applauds]] None, none. Look, the data is here: we have allocated the largest budget item in history in the fight against gender-based violence, we will allocate 261 million euros in the year 2023. We have increased by more than 50% since July 2018 the National Police and the Civil Guard personnel dedicated to a task that is state, which is the fight against gender-based violence. Today there are more than 25,000 police and Civil Guard officers participating in VioGen, twice as many as in 2018, when we arrived at the government, and with this expansion today 43,670 women are protected from the 31,268 that was in July 2018, when we arrived at the government. We have established comprehensive 24-hour care centres for victims; we have adopted a comprehensive child and adolescent protection law, which also includes the protection of the daughters and children of victims of gender-based violence; we have recognised orphaning benefits for the children and daughters of victims of gender-based violence; and we have adopted laws, such as the sexual freedom law, which is not only in the opinion of the Government of Spain, but also of the parliamentary groups that supported it, which makes it entirely possible to deal with sexual violence, the aim of this law is clear and it is no other than to protect women. Therefore, Mrs Gamarra, there is no lesson to this Government in its commitment to the protection of women. [[Applauds]] But let's go back to your famous Brazilian tweet: With you in Spain, it's just a public disorder. Mrs. Gamarra, that's what you said in your tweet. He did not even condemn the coup, he directly attacked the president of his country's government. You missed the opportunity to support democracy in Brazil, to condemn the assault of ultras on democratic institutions. And it still misses the opportunity to break with people very similar to those who protested in Brazil against these institutions, who are in our country and who are still their partners in governments such as Castile and León. [[Applauds]] So, Mrs Gamarra, don't forget, the government that suffered that coup in Brazil is the government of Lula da Silva, leader of the workers' party; the coup was suffered by democracy, and they gave it to some who looked a lot like others who tried to do it in the United States and with whom you govern in Castile and León. [[Applauds]] Mr. Abascal, the truth is that I'm having a lot of trouble following the thread, I admit, you're much smarter, for a long time, than I am, much more, but I have to tell you some things. After listening to him, I'm almost reassured by his words, because a party for which the best democrats are Bolsonaro and Trump, a party for which climate change is a camel, is a religious fanaticism and not scientific evidence, a party that spread doubts about the vaccination of COVID-today and you have even regained the racca raca of the Chinese - a party for which feminism is little less than feminazi, a party for which homosexuals or homosexuality is a disease... Talk to Mr Spinosa de los Monteros... [[Several Members of the VOX Parliamentary Group: Lie!]] [[applause.- Mr Espinosa de los Monteros and Simon: Let no, let no]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u189	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u190	Anyway, coming from a game like this, I'm almost reassured by all the insults you make me. But let's talk a little bit about the hidden plan, because I know you're the intellectual authors of the hidden plan, and then your members of the People's Party bought it. It must be said that you, Mr Abascal, are not very diligent in this of the hidden plan either, because after announcing on December 9, 2022 a motion of censure because the freedoms - I quote your speech in text - were threatened in Spain and because a self-attack such as that of Castillo in Peru was under way, for man, we have been forty-five days, Mr Abascal, and you still do not present the motion of censure. At first I attributed it to what you said you had to look for a candidate, then I thought it was due to Christmas, as happened in summer, meals, dinners of friends, work dinners... [[laughs]] But, man, Mr. Abascal, it's been over half a month since the Christmas lights went out even in the city of Vigo. [[Laughter and applause]] There's no more turron. We're still in the same situation. You thought the threat was serious, but you certainly didn't think the threat was imminent, because you're still hand in hand. If you'll allow me a piece of advice - I give it to you for free -, spabile, that you'll be putting your time on it, you'll soon come to Holy Week and you'll have the same arguments to have to wait for after Holy Week. [[Applauds]] In any case, as I said to Mrs Gamarra, the plan will be hidden, but obviously it does not seem very urgent, given the parsimony with which you take your work, although, in this matter of the motion of censure, as is also the case with all your parliamentary work, it does not seem that early Spain recognizes itself very much in you. [[Applauds]] If I tell you one thing, Mr.Abascal: while neglecting those rights of the Spaniards supposedly threatened by the evil Sánchez, the autocrat Sánchez, at last, these things that we are doing with the Spanish nation, that we are..., poor Spanish nation, and the Constitution, you have been dedicated to other things much more practical. What did you say from the rostrum? For example, try to limit women's rights where they can, specifically in Castile and León, with your famous protocol, which you have come again to remember here today. I tell you seriously, Mr Abascal, quietly, but with all conviction, that you can continue with your fantasies of very short plans and imaginary self-attacks, but do not try again to attack the right of women to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy or any other right of women in our country, because we are not going to tolerate it and we are not going to consent to it. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] We are not going to tolerate it, nor are we going to consent to it by the majority of this House and, less so, by the even larger majority of Spanish women. So take note, we won't consent. The other day, Mrs Gamarra, Mr Abascal, something very curious happened to me - and then I will refer to it in replying to other speeches - at the press conference held jointly by the President of the French Republic and myself in Barcelona. At the press conference, a journalist asked the President of the French Republic his opinion on the practice of right-wing forces in Europe to open the door to their governments to the far right. This was the question I asked you. [[Rumors]] Do you allow me to speak? Then you have Mrs. Gamarra's time and you can talk. The question they asked Mr Macron was: How do you think the conservative forces are opening up the governments in Europe to the far right? I was on Mr Macron's left and I was listening carefully to his answer, but I do not want to go into what Macron replied, which you imagine or know because you followed that press conference. What I would like to ask you is this: do you imagine that by your side would have been a president or president of the Government of Spain in coalition with the ultra-right VOX? Can you imagine the buzz and the shame for Spain? [[Rumors.-Applause.]] I believe that this is a question that we can legitimately ask ourselves after the experiences of the coalition government of Mr Mañueco and of Mr VOX. Finally, a few days after Germany joins the project promoted by Spain, Portugal and France of energy interconnection of green hydrogen through Barcelona and Marseille, let us do the, Mrs Gamarra, thinking of the negationist credentials of a political party that goes up here and says the things of China that says, says the things of climate change that says, says the things, finally, that says the far right, although coming from the authors of the Iberian thyme, they now have the temptation to call German thyme to what Spain is doing in energy policy. I'm done, Mr. Abascal, telling you the following. The other day talking to a friend, and seeing a bit of the dialectic that you spend and also that you spend VOX every time you have occasion to go up to this rostrum and also in the media, he told me that this is an old propaganda technique that is called a mirror accusation. Do you know her, Mr. Abascal? [[Mr. Abascal Conde and Mr. Spinosa of the Mounts of Simon make affirmative signs]] I didn't know her, they explained it to me; you logically know her well, because you have examples to... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u191	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u192	For those of you who don't know her, I'm going to explain what the mirror accusation means. The charge in mirror consists, ladies and gentlemen, in accusing the adversary of what one is, of what he does or what he intends to do. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u193	Mr. Postigo, silence, please. Mr. Ledesma, silence.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u194	The charge in mirror, Mr Abascal, is to accuse the adversary of what one is, of what he does or what he intends to do. You say that the government endangers fundamental rights; you, who are the ones who would put an end to women's right to voluntarily interrupt their pregnancy whenever you want. [[Mrs Nevado del Campo: Abortion.-A Member of Parliament: It is called abortion]] You are the ones who would ban political parties if you could, you have said it here; those who veto journalists; you, you have said it in many media. You say that we do not protect women; you, the negators of sexist violence; you, those who dismantled all measures of the State to protect women if they could. They say that we do not dialogue; you, that in Castile and León what you have done, together with the People's Party, has been to dismantle the only structure that exists of social dialogue between the public administration, trade unions, and employers. [[Applauds]] You, Mr.Abascal, say - and you fill your mouth, moreover, by saying - that I am an autocrat; you, who makes pictures of friendship with Bolsonaro or who prides himself on Trump participating in his festivities. [[Mr. Abascal Conde Makes Affirmative Signs]] And that I am a dictator; you, so longing for the Franco dictatorship. [[Mr. Abascal Conde makes negative signs.-Applause]] Anyway, Mr. Abascal, of everything you accuse me of, the mirror returns the same image, which is yours, Mr. Abascal. [[Applauds]] I thank Mr Asens, of course, for his speech. I was critical that in Davos I had meetings with different funds. I, in Davos, Mr. Asens, met for example with the CEO of ArcelorMittal. Perhaps you do not know the importance of this steel industry in such important autonomous communities as Asturias, but I believe that the President of the Government of Spain has to be with the CEO of ArcelorMittal, among other issues, to give security and guarantee to the workers of Asturias. [[Applauds]] Maybe that'll take him further. But I also met with Cisco's CEO, who just announced an important investment in Barcelona, Catalonia, which might be more suitable for you. Indeed, I met with funds that, among other issues, for example, asked me about the financing and investment of this H2Med of energy interconnection of green hydrogen between Barcelona and Marseille that will unite us with the rest of Europe. With regard to the housing law, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that we really hope - and we are working on this - that we can reach an agreement with the various parliamentary groups, but, man, I think it is also unfair not to acknowledge the efforts being made by the Spanish Government in the area of housing. We have limited the current annual rent update to 2%, the suspension of evictions of vulnerable tenants as a response to the economic consequences of the war, as I said in my first intervention. We have approved the State Plan for Access to Housing 2022-2025, with a budget of 1443 million euros. For example, last July 2022, the Government signed with the Generalitat de Catalunya the agreement for the implementation of the plan, with a contribution of more than 209 million euros in the period of the plan, destined for housing aid in Catalonia. We have launched the young rental voucher, which we often forget to mention, with a budget of 400 million euros. Catalonia will receive €58 million of this €400 million, which in total, across the country, are already benefiting 70,000 young people. Perhaps you seem few, me too, but I think this is a good public policy. We are developing plans to increase the rental housing stock at affordable prices and also social housing. In Catalonia, for example, protocols have been signed for the promotion of public-owned housing for affordable rent in tense areas, such as the Barcelona Metropolitan Arc. And as I mentioned earlier, we do have the housing law, but there is a negotiation already under way. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about 860 amendments, but more than 400 amendments have already been agreed. Within these negotiations there are improvements which we can highlight, for example, the rehabilitation, regeneration and urban and rural renewal, the situation of special economic and social vulnerability, the protection of public housing parks so that they do not actually do what they do, for example, the administrations of the People's Party with those vulture funds to which you previously referred, and the guarantee of the autonomous and state competition framework. I believe that the negotiation that we are having with other parliamentary groups - in this case, I would also like to thank the constructive tone of the Republican Left - has enabled us to make progress in considering large housing forks, the declaration of tense areas and competition guarantees. Your Honor, of course it is my duty also to meet with investors who are betting on the economic development of our country. I have already said in my first speech that there are almost EUR 30 billion, almost 24% more foreign direct investment in our country, which throws down all this catastrophic discourse of hidden plans, of mutations I don't know what constitutional ones. In the end, what is guaranteed is the confidence of many foreign investors in the action of the Government, in the political stability of this Government and also, logically, in the country. Mr Echenique - he has also passed me with other parliamentary groups - it seems here that all the good measures are thanks to the contributions of other parliamentary groups, never of the Socialist Parliamentary Group nor of the Government in the Socialist part, only in the part of Podemos. Anyway, whatever you say, you are right, but I believe that the Socialist Parliamentary Group also does its things, it contributes. Among other things, if you look at the progress that has been made over the past 40 years, I think it is fair to say that you carry the stamp of the Socialist Party; perhaps you can recognise that too. On measures to intervene in other markets, such as food, the other day he was talking to the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Let us not forget, Your Honor - and with this I do not say that there are no benefits in the large food chains - that we have a food chain law, that we have to guarantee fair prices throughout the production chain. Secondly, let us not forget that there is a drought, which is implying a cut in the production of some of these foods. Thirdly, let us also not forget that there is a very significant increase in the prices of fertilizers as a result of the war in Ukraine, because Ukraine and Russia are major exporters of these fertilizers. With this I would give an answer to Mr Echenique. I would like to say to Mr Santiago that I share with you that we have to articulate a peace speech, to end the conflict. Right now there is a proposal on the table, which is the ten-point proposal put forward by President Zelenski. There's going to be a conference next 24 February. From the very beginning, the Spanish Government, together with the rest of the European Union's allies, supported these ten points for peace which President Zelenski also presented to the G-20 in Bali. In any case, I believe that, indeed, we need to show that unity with Ukraine and we need to build on those talks. I have said this in public, I have said it in private and so I share it with you too: I believe that European unity is fundamental and, within European unity, there are two countries that have traditionally interceded between Ukraine and Russia in the European context, which are France and Germany, which have formed part of the formats of Normandy, which have achieved the Minsk agreements with Russia and Ukraine. Therefore, I will always defend that they interact with Putin to see if we can stop these hostilities. Mr Rufián, I have been able to answer Mr Asens in more detail about the housing law. Indeed, I have already said this in my first speech, I am sure that we can do more to protect citizens, especially the middle class, the workers and the most vulnerable groups, but I also believe that it is fair to acknowledge, even with all the difficulties and things that we still have to do, the enormous effort that we are making from the progressive coalition government and with the support of many of the parliamentary groups. To give them some figures, the budgets of 2023 show an effort to strengthen the welfare state which implies that 6 out of 10 euros are earmarked for social spending. Here we are putting things like, for example, what I said before: the young rent subsidy, which in Catalonia implies that there are almost 10,000 beneficiaries; the promotion of housing; the affordable rent housing plan, which allocates 22.5 million euros to the City of Barcelona, to the metropolitan area; or the 110 000 scholarship and study grants that we are transporting through the budgets of 2023. Health expenditure includes EUR 172 million in primary care, I think this is very relevant, because it will benefit almost 7 700 000 people living in Catalonia. The revaluation of pensions benefits almost 2 million pensioners in Catalonia. The increase in the minimum living income according to the CPI, which will benefit 100,000 people in Catalonia; the social thermal bonus, which benefits 110,000 people in Catalonia. In short, Your Honor, we can do more, without a doubt, but I think it is fair to acknowledge the extraordinary effort that the Spanish Government is making in a very short time to commit 45 billion euros - it is said soon - in protecting the middle class, workers, industry and businesses. [[Applauds]] It is true - you said it - that we have to continue to walk in fiscal justice, but I will give you some data that I have here that seem relevant to me. We have made silent reforms that contribute to or advance that fiscal justice. For example, we have set the minimum rate of 15% for corporation tax; we have limited the exemptions; we have raised the rates applicable to very high labour incomes, more than EUR 300,000; also for capital, more than EUR 200 000; we have approved a tax on large fortunes complementary to the existing capital tax; and all this we have done together with the tax on large financial institutions, the tax on large energy companies, the whole debate we have opened in Europe on the so-called fallen profits of the sky, and we have also accompanied it with selective rebates to the middle class and to workers. There was a lot of talk here on the part of the opposition, Mr Rufián - you will agree with me - that we had to deflate the IRPF tariff, but what this government has actually done has been far more serious. What we have done has been to help middle classes with selective tax cuts. And I am not only referring to the VAT on electricity or gas, but we have reduced corporation tax to SMEs from 25 to 23 %, to those who charge less than EUR 1 million; we have changed the income tax on natural persons; we have raised the minimum tax on income from EUR 14 000 to EUR 15 000, and we have also extended the limit on reductions from EUR 18,000 to EUR 21,000; and for the self-employed what we have done has been to include an additional 5% reduction in the IRPF in the net performance of modules. Finally, all this, ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing is to benefit the middle class and the working class, while raising all these issues to which you referred earlier. With regard to the tax on certain digital services, Spain has been one of the first countries to approve this tax. We do not expect the G-20, we do not expect to reach agreement within the framework of the OECD. There is also the tax on financial transactions, the tax on the deposit of waste. We have fought fraud, Your Honor. We have adopted a law on measures to prevent and combat tax fraud that prohibits tax amnesty, which provides that companies, listed companies of real estate investment, tax 15% for their undistributed profits, and the collection from that fight against fraud in 2021 grew by 12% compared to 2018, i.e. an additional €1.8 billion. Your Honor, we're doing a progressive fiscal policy. You tell me we have to do more, I share. I am sure we can do more and, of course, we will welcome many of the proposals that you have put to us. The spokesperson for the Junts per Catalunya Group, Mrs Illamola, spoke about the reality of the labour market. You say I may have fallen into my first intervention in self-congratulation. I have acknowledged, Your Honor, that the labour market in Spain continues to have deficits and structural ills that we have to address. I have talked about youth unemployment, also about women's unemployment; I have talked about wage inequality between men and women, and also about an active population that has to continue to rise, although it has been raised in recent times. In short, there are evils, Your Honor, which we must continue to address. I have not made a self-contained intervention at all, but I think it is also fair to acknowledge that if, thanks to this labour reform, there has been an increase of 232% in indefinite employment and we now have 2 300 000 undefined employees more than before the labour reform, we will have done something right from the government with this labour market reform. On energy interconnections. We are talking about H2Med, but we are also talking - and that was something we discussed together with the French Government - about electrical interconnections, for example, the Gulf of Biscay, to which Mr Esteban referred earlier in his speech. I believe that this is also a source of pride for Barcelona. On many occasions Barcelona has rightly complained that the Spanish Government has abandoned it, that it did not have Barcelona in mind to make investments. Humbly, from this government, since we took office three years ago, we have tried to reactivate the Barcelona Municipal Charter, we have tried to comply with the agreements we had with the city of Barcelona and we have tried to reposition Barcelona in what I believe are positive elements and which, moreover, connect with the values and being of Barcelona, which is to be an open, cosmopolitan, Mediterranean city, committed to Europe and avant-garde. That is what we have defended, and that is why we have located ourselves and decided to call the treaty of friendship, the first, between France and Spain, a treaty of friendship of the city of Barcelona. I have never said, Your Honor, that the independence movement is over. I have spoken that the process, as it was known, is over. And that I have not said, I insist, has been said by leaders of your party, of Junts per Catalunya. And you're right, ladies and gentlemen. The process was based on three issues: the first, independence; the second, unilaterality; and the third, confrontation rather than dialogue. Today, Your Honor, with all due respect, those three conditions are not met. Does that mean that we say there is no independence movement in Catalonia? Not at all. There is. We don't share it. We fight politically against the independence movement, because we believe that Catalonia earns much more by having a different vision of its being through Spain and strengthening Europe, but, of course, we do not reveal reality, and it is that, in fact, the independence movement continues to exist in Catalonia. Don't misunderstand my words because nothing has to do with one thing with the other. In that Treaty of Barcelona, Your Honor, we are talking about cross-border cooperation and we are also talking about the need to develop and develop a cross-border cooperation strategy. In that context, indeed, I told Mr Macron that there are nine cross-border posts which obviously have to be raised to ensure compliance with Schengen. This is something I put to you. I also put to Mr Macron something that Mr Esteban has commented on, and that is how we can speed up these electrical interconnections through the Gulf of Biscay, and one of the conclusions of this summit has been that we are setting up a working group to see how, together, we can guarantee something that concerns the French Government, which is indeed immigration control. On Morocco, Your Honor, it is important that we hold a summit with Morocco in a few days' time. Besides, the data is there, Your Honor. There is a strategic importance for Spain to have the best relations with Morocco, and that is what I will defend during these months and during these years. Mr Bel, who has excused his presence, spoke about European funds and the involvement of the autonomous communities. The Autonomous Communities have already received €20.5 billion in transfers. If they add up to the EUR 10 billion they received through REACT funds, which are the funds we put in place to protect the National Health System, we are talking about that, from 2020 to 2023, they have received nothing more and nothing less than EUR 30 billion; EUR 30 billion, Your Honor. We have held 130 sectoral conferences. Catalonia has received, from the launch of the European funds until the end of the year 2022, 4519 million euros; almost 3000 million euros have been distributed through the sectoral conference, through direct concessions for the execution by the Catalan community, and 1678 million euros come from the direct execution of the General Administration of the State. In short, considering the European funds and the REACT, Catalonia has now received €64 billion. Funds received by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. There is something that Mr Bel has said here, I think in an unwarranted way. There is a specific component of the plan that recognises the contribution of small and medium-sized enterprises: EUR 4894 million exclusively for SMEs, including both reforms and investments. And here we have the digital kit, where there are more than 35 000 small and medium-sized enterprises that already have the bonus for their digitisation; 30,000 SMEs in phase 1, i.e. between 10 and 49 employees, and more than 6000 in phase 2, between 3 and 9 employees. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, with all the difficulties in implementing these funds, we must recognize the work that is being done by the civil servants, the public servants of our country, because I believe it is commendable. Mr. Errejón. I enjoyed your reflection on the anguish, Your Honor. I think that is indeed the case, that we have to see as opportunities what others try to draw as distresses, for example, the climate emergency or the digitalisation processes, and give them that inclusive perspective. In this case, I would also like to recall that this is the first government in the world - not in Europe, but in the world - that has adopted, in collaboration and in dialogue with the third sector, with civil society, a digital rights charter to give a humanist perspective to all digitisation as regards the rights and freedoms of citizens. I believe that, as you have said, we cannot do the ostrich technique that other political formations did when they ruled, and we have to deal with the problems. About inflation. I share with you that there are victims, the social majority, the ones below, and there are a few, the ones above, the minority. For them, indeed, we are launching all this tax justice to which he referred earlier when he replied to Mr Rufián. You will say: it is insufficient. Well, we can do more, but we're doing it, ladies and gentlemen. The other day - I don't remember - a means of communication asked me about the impact that the abolition of VAT had had on essential foods and their reduction in other foods, and it referred to the December data. I think it is important that we wait and see what is going on in food prices in 2023, in particular in the first few months. I have put forward what this report from the European Commission said and, again, I would like to remind you that in food we are not only talking about the benefits that some of these large companies may have - I do not deny it - but also about other constraints arising from what you referred to earlier, which is the climate emergency. I'm just going to recall some data that Minister Planas shared with me the other day. There are cuts in olive oil production as a result of the droughts we have been suffering. We are talking about a cut of 49%, that is, the supply has been reduced by 49%. That has an impact on food prices. Cereal production has been cut by 26.5 % as a result of the droughts we have suffered, and citrus fruit by 15.6 %. It is clear that in addition to what you have referred to, that I do not deny it, there is a very relevant impact both of drought and of the increase in the price of fertilizers that we must take into account. The drought and the increase in the price of feed have increased by 40% the costs in beef and milk production. If we want to defend - logically, and I know that you share it too - small farmers, small farmers, those who expressed themselves in favour of a food chain law that guarantees transparency, justice and dignity throughout the food chain production process, we also need to incorporate this to know what elements we need to touch to contain food prices. The commitment of the Government of Spain is clear, it is firm, Your Honor, and I think it is also important to see what impact this measure has that we amortize very quickly. Lowering VAT to any product or property has an extraordinary collectional impact. These are resources that the State ceases to enter and with which we finance public policies that you obviously also share in your intervention. On mental health, Your Honor, I can only share the gravity of the situation you have said. I'm sure much more needs to be done. This is going to be one of the major debates present and future of the health and social system, not only in Europe, but in Spain in particular. In this case, too, I want to break a spear in favour of what the Spanish Government is doing, because not only with words, but also with facts, we are putting mental health at the centre of the debate. Look, 100 million euros in the mental health action plan. We have updated, as you know, the mental health strategy after many years, since even before 2010 it was not updated. We have put in place a telephone number - I think I remember it is 024 - in which since its launch, very few months ago, we have already received 80,000 calls. In other words, there was a latent demand for attention which, unfortunately, shows us the gravity of the situation and, of course, the need to attend to it. On the psychology places, I would like to say that in this offer, to which I referred in my first intervention, of 11,171 places of mir, for which last Saturday many young graduates in Medicine were examined, 231 places are for psychology. I think this also opens a door that we're going to have to develop, because that demand is there. I have also met, Your Honor, with associations working in the field of mental health, suicide prevention, and their stories and stories are absolutely shocking and heartbreaking. Of course, when we talk to many psychologists who are in the National Health System, what they tell us, rightly, is that they need more human resources, because psychological care cannot be given from one month to three months later, but it has to be much more constant over time. That is something that we, as it cannot be otherwise, share. But we are starting from a deficit of extraordinary gravity and we are doing what, of course, we have to do. I understand your criticism that we have to do more, and the Government of Spain will continue on this path that you share with us. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u195	Excuse me, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u196	I would like to say to Mr Baldoví that I am very grateful for the role of Compromís in the articulation of the parliamentary majority in taking out many of these laws. I also want to recognize the role of Compromís in the Valencian Community, because I believe that both in the city of Valencia and in the community we are doing among all things important for their land. He referred to the ceramics sector and also to textiles in Castellón. I had the opportunity to meet with some of the representatives of this group. Finally, it can always be said that it is insufficient, but by giving you some figures on direct aid and also the guarantees and policies linked to the modernization of this industry so important for Castellón, for the Valencian Community and also for Spain, I will tell you that we are talking about direct aid to the ceramic sector of 450 million euros. All the intensive gas industries are going to have a specific liquidity line, through the ICO, of EUR 500 million; that is, we are already talking about almost EUR 1 billion between things. There are also the fiscal and regulatory measures, which I take advantage of your question or reflection to remind you again: the value of production tax and the excise duty on electricity are suspended; we keep the cogeneration within the Iberian solution, as well as the reduction of electricity tolls, and from February onwards the gas cap comes into force, which is causing price volatility to be reduced, which I believe is good for the intensive gas sector. Finally, I believe that the government is going to be flexible so that companies that do not comply with this requirement - you have made reference to textiles and enamels, which are below the minimum gas consumption per installation required for access to these direct aids - can justify their suitability and are within the scope of this temporary framework. I mean with this, Your Honor, that we are aware of the gravity of the situation, but neither can we give for little or no such enormous effort that we are making from the General Administration of the State, complemented by what the coalition government in the community is doing. As far as autonomous financing is concerned, this is one of the commitments which, in fact, we have not been able to develop in full because of the context, the political, economic and global situation that we are experiencing, but in five years of government the Valencian Community has received 40,7% - to be exact - more resources than in the last five years of the People's Party government. So, there's the commitment. The regional funding for the year 2023 will bring down a record figure for its community, with 25.6% more than the previous year; in figures, we are talking about EUR 13 449 million. I would like to say to Mr Rego that we are committed to territorial cohesion. I regret that we do not find points of union and support in many of the measures we are putting in place. I understand that there is always a paradox, and we must also avoid confrontation and seek the balance between the deployment of renewable energies - which is also important to defend those places in Galicia, such as the mountains, and the environment - and a development respectful of the traditions and the Galician heritage, as well as those of other territories. Mrs. Arrimadas, you criticize me for fighting with reality. I'm not at all complacent. I said in my first speech, Your Honor, and I stress again - I do not retort my words - that we have never, neither in the pandemic nor now with the war, hidden the gravity of the situation and the challenges ahead, but I think it is also fair to recognize the strengths of the Spanish economy and society. If today Spain can close the year 2022 - let us see what the INE says - above 5%, as all national and international bodies predict, and we can be doubling in economic growth in the year 2023 to the main European economies, I think it will be because of the strengths of the Spanish economy. Something will have to do with the Government of Spain. I know you don't share it and you don't think we're doing anything right, but I think we've done important things to modernize our country, our industry and our economy. Nor do I understand very well, Your Honor, why you strive to confront generations. Again, the problem young people have is in the pensioner's pocket, and that is not true. The problem that young people have in our country is related to job insecurity, the lack of opportunities and the improvement of employability, with all this digital and technological revolution that we are in, and it is linked to the problems of emancipation and access to housing. And in all those problems, ladies and gentlemen, at least - this is fair to acknowledge to your parliamentary group - what has to do with labour reform you have supported it. You do not want to hear about any of the policies that this Government is implementing in housing, to promote the emancipation of young people in our country, nor about education, vocational training and the modernization of our university system. Therefore, Your Honor, you will be committed to confronting generations, but, honestly, I believe that the problem of young people has nothing to do with the pension of the elderly. You also try to confront the private sector, private sector workers, with the public sector. You have come to say 'these indexed workers', referring to officials, and I consider that, ladies and gentlemen, a lack of respect, because those professionals, those public servants, have been the ones who have saved lives, for example, during the pandemic, or those who are defending our citizens in the face of fires, such as the Armed Forces. [[applause]] I would therefore ask you for some respect and, if you want, even in your reply, to correct this issue. On democratic quality, what to say, Your Honor. In the end, you were there, in Cibeles, with the PP and with VOX, as a good liberal party that you are and that, in fact, defends that, the Constitution and democracy that defend the PP and VOX. Only those who vote for the PP or vote for VOX are constitutionalists here. Finally, I congratulate you on the primary process, but, in addition to changing leadership in your political party, it would be good perhaps, if I may, this council, that you will also review your political project and your political strategy, because it does not seem that you align with the PP and with VOX has given you any electoral revenue. It is a reflection that I have heard in some of your new leaders and also in you. You have sometimes referred to the fact that there was a mistake by Citizens when they gave governments to the People's Party, supported also by the ultra-right, but then that translates into nothing but a reflection. There has been no change in the speech by your parliamentary group or by you. I do not know whether you will be in the general elections or not, but, in any case, we should reflect on the correctness of a political strategy that has led you to be a marginal political force. And I don't say it, citizens say it every time they have spoken in the ballot box about the trust they give to their acronyms. Mr Esteban, I would like to thank you for at least acknowledging the progress we have made at European level with the Iberian solution, with the European funds. You have, of course, criticised that there should be greater participation by the autonomous presidents concerned in these summits. Note that the People's Party has criticized me that Mr Aragonese will remain witness at the beginning of that summit, but it is that the president of the Xunta de Galicia, which is of the People's Party, did not attend the bilateral summit that we had with Germany in the city of A Coruña. [[Mrs.Moraleja Gómez: But have you invited him?]] This is not an ideological issue; it is an issue even, I would say, of education and institutional respect, no longer to the Government of Spain, but to the Government coming to Spain, in this case to A Coruña, to participate in a bilateral summit. [[Ms. Moraleja Gómez utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u197	Mrs. Moraleja, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u198	You are talking about the shipment of weapons and also about Morocco. We have just heard of the decision by the German Government to send Leopard tanks to Ukraine, also from the US Government. We have always argued that all countries have to go hand in hand on this issue. Let's see exactly what this decision is about. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I have had the opportunity to speak with President Zelenski, and he acknowledges the efforts being made by the Government of Spain and the Army to supply equipment and ammunition. A few weeks ago, I had the opportunity to talk to him. We have made dozens of shipments and equipment to Ukraine, including 400 tons of ammunition, light weapons, counter-car systems, an Aspide missile battery and six Hawk anti-aircraft systems, which are highly valued by Ukraine. Twenty tons of health protection equipment, helmets, vests, masks, gloves and 77 000 winter uniforms have also been shipped. There is also something important that we do not say, but that is recognized by the Ukrainian Government, which are all the basic and specialized training programs that we are deploying. The second contingent, of 220 Ukrainian soldiers, is already in our country receiving instruction, and we have the capacity to receive more. We have also contributed EUR 250 million more to the financial stability and reconstruction of Ukraine. We have also sent 163 high-voltage equipment and 70 generators to meet the needs of Ukrainians in the face of the destruction of their critical infrastructures and, as I said before, in relation to the Leopard cars, we will maintain unity and we will logically coordinate with the rest of the allies, especially in Europe. On Morocco, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should maintain the best of relations, not only for Spain, but also for the European Union. I want to give you two figures from the year just ended that show the importance of having these good relationships. In 2022, trade with Morocco increased to almost EUR 10 billion, 33% more than last year. On the other hand, according to data from the Ministry of the Interior, in 2022 migratory flows, unlike what is happening on other growing migratory routes, have been reduced by 25.6%, while - as I said earlier - it increased on other routes from other parts of Europe. According to FRONTEX data, there has been a 21% reduction through Andalusia and 31% less through the Canary Islands. In other words, of all the migration routes to Europe, the only one that has declined in recent months has been precisely that of Morocco to Spain. [[Rumors]] Indeed, as you have said, we are going to hold that high-level meeting with Morocco and, in addition, we are going to include in that high-level meeting an important opening for our compatriots living in the autonomous cities of Ceuta and Melilla, as is the opening of customs. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, keep quiet, please, there is a permanent rumor. [[Rumors]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u200	On the refugee centre planned by the Government in Vitoria, Minister Escrivá informs me that there has been a strategic plan of the Ministry of Inclusion to increase the capacity of the reception system with two working groups. Indeed, you knew this center that was planned for the city of Vitoria-Gasteiz. Obviously, Your Honor, we have the best of attitudes and wills to reach agreements and dialogue with the Basque Government. Mrs Aizpurua, on taxes, I think I have been able to respond in other speeches. I would focus more on everything that has to do with the regulation of the electricity market, on all the bet we are making for the ecological transition. You know that we have presented the strategic framework for energy and climate and the climate and environmental emergency declaration that we adopted at the beginning of the legislature; we have adopted the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act; the recovery plan allocates EUR 28 billion, i.e. 40%, to the green transition; the strategic projects, uniquely renewable energy, hydrogen, renewable energy and storage, will mobilise EUR 16 billion and will create 280,000 jobs in one of the energies of the future, clearly, such as green hydrogen. You have also not referred to the Iberian solution, but I have said the data before. I have previously referred to large companies, tax evasion, tax justice, the European response. On the law of gags, I was told by the Minister of the Interior that more than 180 amendments have been tabled and we have already had about 60 agreed with the various parliamentary groups. The will of the Government of Spain is, of course, to amend this law on citizen security, but we have to do so by giving guarantees to the state's security forces and bodies so that they can somehow guarantee public order. I would like to remind Mrs Vehi that, in relation to what other parliamentary groups have reproached me - it has not been her case - that I have met with investment funds, I have also met with the President of Intermon Oxfam and that we also share the report that Intermon Oxfam presented at the Davos Forum. I have to admit that Oxfam has applauded not only that we place them in our speeches, but also inequality and fiscal justice as central elements of our economic policy and country project. And on European sovereignty, or rather, national sovereignty, you say that the best progressive response to ensuring that European sovereignty is the fragmentation of the country's state sovereignty, and I cannot share this issue. I think it is quite the opposite, that what we have to do is to strengthen that European sovereignty. Mrs Oramas, I had said goodbye to you in the previous speech, but welcome again. [[Laughter]] In any case, Your Honor, it is not true that the collection data we are currently recording are due to rising inflation, it is not. We are talking about - I think I remember, if the figures do not deceive me - a 20% or 25%, at best, explains this increase in collection. I insist, we are allocating EUR 45 billion to the social and economic response of the war in Ukraine, and the rest has to do with economic growth and strong job creation in our country. Moreover, this job creation is based on very solid foundations of stability and wage dignity, so I believe that it is also fair to recognise things as they are. In this case, Your Honor, it is not inflation that explains the increase in collection, but fundamentally the good performance of the Spanish economy, which I believe is to celebrate it. And that has a lot to do with all the income protection policies that we put in place during the pandemic and that we are putting in place right now also during this war. Mr Adanero, you had understood that the People's Parliamentary Group had already intervened. [[Laughter and applause]] You've done a very interesting galimacy of things. No offense, ma'am, but you and your partner - the one on your left - are two transfugas. [[Mr. Sayas López: You're on the run!]] You will be able to dress the monkey as you like, that you leave with the PP because we are very bad and we want to break Spain... but you are two transfugas. It is still curious that Mr. Feijóo will present an institutional quality plan the day after announcing that the former moderate transfugas in UPN are now part of the People's Party, but well, this is how these people on the right are spent. [[applause]] To Mr. Mazón, I want to tell him to remove the fears, that we will fully support the inclusion of Bilbao and Santander. Mr. Oblanca, the AVE to Asturias is going to go into service in the coming months. [[A Member: And Extremadura, when?]] That is the commitment of the Government of Spain. To Mr Guitarte I would like to say that we of course want to be respected and to have a balanced response, with caution, with protection and giving a boost to these local energy communities. That is what the Spanish Government is doing, and I believe that this sensitivity is being met by the third Vice-President and this Government. I would like to thank the spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for his intervention because, beyond the oratory that he has that it is clearly combative and in my opinion brilliant - it is my opinion - I believe that the important thing at the end is that in this rostrum and in this House we talk about the real problems of citizenship, and the real problems of citizenship are not constitutional changes that do not occur, it is not the risk that Spain will become a plurinational federal republic and that we import Managua to Madrid. [[Several Members: Ooooh!]] No, the real problems of citizenship are called inflation, employment, inequality... [[Mrs. Moraleja Gómez: And the rapists who go out on the street!]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u201	Mrs. Moraleja, silence, please. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u202	These are the questions to which the Spanish Government answers and not those that, if Patxi, spokesman of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, is fixed, actually began with the economy, followed by the taxes - then Liz Truss appeared -, continued with the job and in the end they ended up, by discarding, where the right always ends when he is in opposition, talking about supposed conspiracies and supposed dangers that occur at all when the Spanish Government is led by the Socialist Party or in this case together with Unity Podemos. I would like to recall, and I also say this with regret, that the only time during these last forty years that the constitutional order was at risk and the territorial integrity of the country was at risk was with a Government of the People's Party. [[Rumors]] So, we support that People's Party government, and today, unfortunately, being heirs to that legacy of ashes that the People's Party left us, what we find is reproach when not criticism or opposition to everything we do, but in the end, 'things you see, friend Sancho'. The important thing is that we move forward and move forward in what matters to citizens: in cohesion, in opportunities and in coexistence. [[Prolonged applause of Members of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Members of the Government]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak as they see fit. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, I have the floor, Mrs. Gamarra Ruiz-Clavijo.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u204	Thank you, President. Mr Sánchez, you have claimed yourself here as a Democrat during this long exhibition. I am sure you already know at this point that today at a university in Madrid an autonomous president has suffered a crash; an autonomous president has been coerced; an autonomous president has been called a murderer and fascist. Do you share the support of the Minister of Universities to all who have done this? Do you understand that this is the way and model of coexistence we want for college? [[Applauds]] I think you still have the floor and it would be good for you to correct the minister and place yourself where the Democrats should be. Mr. Sánchez, as far as the law of the only one is concerned, he has spoken for more than two and a half hours in this rostrum this afternoon, and what he has maintained has been absolute silence in relation to rectification; silence, not a single word. But while you were still silent, the Minister of Equality was in the hallway pointing to the judges as being wrongly applying a law, when the problem with this law is that it has gone wrong out of this House, and she warned. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez, of course we are going to give feminism lessons to this government, of course we are. You don't have a bit of sensitivity left. Have you left the street so much that you are not even aware of what is suffering the already more than 260 women, boys and girls who are seeing that the convictions... [[the president of the government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejón, makes negative signs]] Yes, Mr. Sanchez, yes, this is happening in our country. [[Several Members: Yes, of course I do.]] Are you not aware that you are suffering because those convictions are being reduced by the application of this law? Or do you also share that they are the judges and have not been the legislative branch? This law came out of the executive. Have some sensitivity, acknowledge the error and correct this law among all. [[Applauds]] If we can't help you have our vows to do so, of course, but don't look elsewhere because not a single woman who has suffered sexual assault, rape or even murder deserves you not to think about it and not to rectify it. Therefore, abandon childish pride, which seems to have come to you too, and rectify this law. He talked about the war in Ukraine. During this appearance we have known that Germany will send the tanks. Are you willing to do that? I was surprised to hear you say that you agree with Mr Santiago, because he is the one who defined NATO as a legal terrorist organization. I do not know what Macron will think when he knows that this has been said by people who have been in his government or even a minister who, although not here today, is still part of his Council of Ministers. [[Applauds]] But it would be good if we joined and lived up to the circumstances. Hiding or not hiding, here's the thing. You maintain a tormentive relationship with the truth and clear, this is what happens when we put you in front of the mirror. I am convinced that you already believe your own lies, is what usually happens to compulsive liars, that in the end they themselves believe their own lies. But, look, were you hiding the Spaniards, when I told them that I wouldn't sleep quietly if I ruled with Podemos, that I was going to rule with communists? Were you hiding from the Spaniards when he said he would bring Puigdemont, who would pardon those who had committed sedition? Were you hiding the Spaniards, when you said that you were going to lead the banner of the fight against corruption, that would reduce the crime of embezzlement? Is that telling the truth or is it hiding? That's hiding, let's call things by their name. I will also tell you that you have read here a report from the Fiscal Council on a reform on embezzlement. I would have liked to be able to read the reports of the Fiscal Council, the General Council of the Judiciary on all these crimes, but I have not been able to read them. [[applause]] Why? Because you skip them, that's why we haven't been able to read them, that's why we don't have those reports. I see you follow the tweets I put on. I condemned, as it cannot be otherwise, the coup. It would be worse, I'm a Democrat! But you've talked about updating and homologating the sedition crime. Update? Homologate? He's disappeared from the Penal Code. I invite you to look for him when he comes home and you will find that this crime is no longer there; that is not updating, that is not homologating, that is deleting from the Penal Code those crimes that are committed against the constitutional order, and this is what you have done. [[Applauds]] In addition, I invite you to read the Supreme Court's order - which is certainly a better opinion based on law than mine - and there you will see that you have not approved anything at all. He's lying. But it is that, as I tell you, your relationship with the truth is an absolutely tormenting relationship. You've given data on unemployment. And what about those more than 600,000 workers with a discontinuous fixed contract who aren't working? Where are they? Those that do not appear in any statistics, those whose data have disappeared. For what? So we can't count on them. That is one of the consequences of that labour reform. We could talk about a lot of that economic data, but, Mr. Sanchez, at least answer me...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u205	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u206	I'm on my way. Please ask me a question. Has Spain recovered pre-pandemic GDP? Yes or no? The rest of the countries do, not Spain. Then Spain is worse than the rest of Europe because its government is worse than the rest of the Europeans. [[Applauds]] You gave everything to amnesia and anesthesia, you believe that the Spaniards will forget everything that is happening in Spain, everything that you have lied to them, but you know very little about the Spaniards. It is noted that you do not step on the street and when the step is for those petanque parties that organize your cabinet and there, obviously, do not tell you the truth. But walk a little, go out and ask. Go to a café, without looking for one of a socialist affiliate, or go to a trade of an autonomous who does not have a socialist card and you will find real Spain, and there they will tell you the truths of the boatman, how this country is doing. [[Rumors]] They will tell you that, in fact, you will pass into history, and very soon, but not as you believe, because we will not forget everything you have done and we will not forget that at this time more than 261 sentences have been reviewed, have benefited from a law sexual predators...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u207	Mrs. Gamarra, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u208	...and you're not willing to do anything at all. Allow me, Madam President, just one thought. [[Protests]] Mr López, when you doubt the moral and political squabble of my party remember who made you lehendakari in exchange for absolutely nothing. [[Protests.-Applause.]] That's the big difference. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the European Parliament (Christian Democrats) and Members of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Gamarra. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Abascal Conde has the floor. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Gamarra has not been able to speak freely in her first speech without being called to order and yet Mr Patxi López has been able to speak widely without saying a single word of the European Council, or a single word. [[Applauds]] That's very easy. Well, actually you, actually, what you've done is a speech of worship to the beloved leader who would have embarrassed Kim Jong-un. [[Applauds]] Mr Sánchez has not been ashamed of himself, in fact he has told him that you have been brilliant. Patxi, moderate, who has already forgiven him, no more North Korean heads are needed. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] That's why I was saying that you're installed in a North Korean leader system, with great taste for the news. You have done it again, you have reached the Television, you have surpassed it and with great hatred for the demonstrations. [[laughs]] As long as you have not been chosen by the January crowd rally and the December crowd rally! [[Applauds]] In fact, he had to come out here and tell us that we denounced him because he had a hidden plan. We didn't do that. You've said a lot of lies, one about our spokesperson. Do we tell you that you have a hidden plan? You have no hidden plan, your plan is very visible. [[Applauds]] You are showing it, you say it, has been told by the Constitutional Court in three judgments. You are the only government that has locked up the Spaniards, that has trampled on the Constitution, that has illegally restricted with a state of alarm - the only government during democracy - rights and freedoms. It is the only Government that has changed the Criminal Code to favour its partners. You will repeat again that you have done so through harmonization with the European nations. [[Laughter]] Get up here and say it again; don't believe him or Patxi. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] You don't believe anyone, your partners don't believe you, we don't believe you, but you don't believe Patxi, and neither do you, Mr. Sanchez. I understand you have to say it. As for the charge in mirror, what your friend told you, it's made it easy for me. [[the President of the Government, Sánchez Pérez-Castejon: The motion]] [[Laughter]] Are you sure your friend didn't tell you that your taste for mirrors was excessive? [[Laughs.-Applause.]] Regarding the motion and this of you do not dare, you go on vacation, do not worry, you will have it, but you are not yet the supreme leader. You will have it not when you want, but when you want me or you want the opposition, that we will be the ones who will present it, and there you will have to explain to the whole of Europe with whom you will be portrayed, with those who told you today that I did not have to support Ukraine, with those who are heirs of terrorism, with those who are the allies of international communism in the Puebla Group and, therefore, of Putin. You'll have to explain all that. Once again, he hasn't answered me. You have come out here with an intervention and the replica prepared, as always, with some things that you already came to say from home and never responds to what we put to you. Answer, what rights are we restricting? It is you and your Government that are restricting information to women. What rights are we restricting for giving information to a pregnant woman? You say what right; none. There is another debate, but now we are in that; what right? Say it. [[Applauds]] He doesn't have a single argument. You explain to the women - we have asked them and also Mrs Gamarra - why your government makes laws - the responsibility does not lie with Mrs Montero, you have her, who is the president of the government - who end up with sexual predators on the street or with reduced convictions. Why does your government do that and have such pride that it doesn't even rectify it? He also replied about energy policy, which wept because there are three nations that produce 90% of lithium, but here they pass a law that prohibits the extraction of energy resources. They don't talk about it, they don't want to argue. About the broken banks, of which you have spoken several times during your first intervention saying that managers are very expensive, it is the savings boxes that broke and those managers, which were politicians and trade unionists, did come out expensive. And you were the advisor to Caja Madrid! [[Applauds.-A honourable Member: There he is! All right!]] Demagogy and populism bring you to this rostrum. As for Mr Macron's instructions the other day in Barcelona on the pacts, that is his problem, which he receives instructions. We do not receive instructions from our partners about who we have to deal with. We have other references. Mr. Macron, by the way, said he still sends tanks, but if they don't serve for a climb. [[Laughter]] That's your reference. Who's ours? Mrs Meloni, who, among other things, has achieved what you have lost that Algiers guarantees Italy three times as much gas as Spain. [[Shows a press clipping]] That is our reference, that is the policy we believe serves. [[Applauds]] As for fighting with reality - and I conclude, Madam President - reality is not the human ecosystem of Davos. The reality is the ecosystem of Spanish society in which you have so much difficulty in being able to listen directly to the Spaniards. I have told you very harshly on many occasions, today I say it a little softer for you to reflect, so that you really try to listen to the Spanish and that you do not believe that you are so supported by the popular classes, because you are not. As for the threats to the opposition in Davos in terms of war - and this is the last thing I say - you have come here to formulate it again. He said to me again, "Don't come back, don't come back... How do you speak to me in those terms? I will say what you think I have to say and you will be able to discuss it, but those terms are quite inappropriate for a president. It doesn't scare us, it will need something else to scare us; it has partners for it, but those don't scare us either. [[One Member: Very well!- Prolonged applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the VOX Parliamentary Group, standing up]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u211	Thank you, Mr. Abascal. For the Republican Parliamentary Group, Mr Rufián Romero has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u212	A couple of prelims before we start, Mr. President. The first, Mrs Gamarra, when you are talking about embezzlement, I hear you, I always listen to the experts, but, beyond that, you have asked the President, the Socialist Group - you mean by extension - the Government by extension, some of us - perhaps also by extension - whether we share some of the things that have happened in Complutense. [[laughs]] Yeah. I do. I will not, of course, enter according to what qualifications, screams or pittos has happened, but yes in the speech of Elisa Lozano, the best student of his promotion - you who are so prone to meritocracy - who has told you truths like fists. And she told the person responsible to dismantle health and public education in Madrid what she was, a usurper and who had no right to be there. So I share what you said. [[Applauds]] And yes, the illustrious are out. What I'm asking you, Mrs. Gamarra, is, do you have anything to say in front of the savages that VOX says? They never have anything to say in front of what VOX says, ever. This country deserves a different right. This country deserves a democratic right. [[Rumors]] Do you know why you never have anything to say in front of the savages you do and say VOX? [[A Member of Parliament: What savages?]] Because parents always look handsome to their children, always. [[A Member of Parliament: Less Yours]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask your respect, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u214	As for Mr Abascal, you, Mr Abascal, have said that you do not receive instructions. I'm being very follower of a new series, 'Losantos Files', and Mr.Losantos does say you get instructions. [[laughs]] In fact, he says his whole party gets instructions. I recommend that everyone follow this series because it's very interesting. Mr President, one of the groups or yourself referred to the summit with France in Barcelona. I'm not going in, but it would seem interesting to know what he talked to Macron, especially if he explained how they got rid of the Bourbons, but I'm not going in there. [[Laughs.-Applause.]] The second thing that interests me most is something according to what Mr Patxi López has said repeatedly in his speech and you also reply in almost all your speeches, that the process, the process, has ended, that we are weaker than ever and that we are divided - not like here, that you are very united -. [[laughs]] Okay, okay, come on, let's make a referendum. If we're gonna lose, right? [[Applauds]] We're split, finished, this is over... Let's have a referendum. We're absolutely willing. Mr President, too, you have given a short cut of data about Catalonia, about good things that this government has done, often forced by my parliamentary group because the PSOE, as everyone knows, does not, but is forced to do on many occasions. We are not responsible for your decisions, we are responsible for some of your corrections, but you have given a good cut of good data. I will repeat three: 1300 million for Catalan public health, 2000 new residents to try to alleviate the waiting lists in dependence and, for example, 25 million euros against macho violence in Catalonia. This could be approved tonight or tomorrow morning. These are the general budgets of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Why don't you approve of them? Everyone knows why, because the PSC competes with Republican Left and in that competition loses people. Everyone knows that if the PSC has to strain the Republican Left, maybe it can win some registrar in which town. It's a pretty miserable attitude. [[Applauds]] The last comment I wanted to make is something that happened to me in the speech: mental health. We talk little about mental health and we have to make the effort to integrate mental health into public health where we govern. It is not normal that in this country a Diazepam box is worth sixty cents and a therapy sixty euros. It's not normal. We have to integrate it. It's not normal for young people to get out of their reality, it's not normal. And this is people's lives, not many of the things we talk about here. Thank you very much. Excuse me. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Rufián. Mrs Illamola Dausà has the floor for the Plural Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u216	Mr President, I will now add a few more questions to all those you have not answered before. When you are asked in international forums about the recipes of Spain's economic success, is that a rhetorical, ironic question? Does he explain to them that his Government refused to implement a budget item of €9 billion of the COVID Fund from the budgets of 2022 that was from Junts? Are you interested in knowing how electric wings, for example, benefit? How does this fit with your assertion that it puts economic resources at the service of the majority and not of a few? Does he explain that he legislates by royal decrees Macedonian laws, with a harmful legislative technique that subjects the Legislature to blackmail at the time of deciding his vote because there are social measures along with measures that benefit few? That the State Advocate acts under his instructions and requests the extradition of exiles for disorder but also for aggravated embezzlement, such as Llarena, is it to fulfill an electoral promise to bring Puigdemont? Is it part of the rendezvous agenda? Is this part of the agreements with which you have entered into this reform and its amendments? I don't understand, honestly, how you can treat your partners like this, and they were warned that this was going to happen. You say that the Barcelona agreement is a tribute of respect, consideration and admiration. I call it Part X Pyrenees, because I have honestly lost count of how many examples we already have of the lamination of rights. And I have no respect or consideration or admiration for Catalonia, on the contrary, I see contempt and ignorance. We who concentrate on Thursday are not nostalgics who want a broken Spain, as you said; we who were there simply want to be able to decide our future as a country. That the independence sentiment has come down, said the socialist spokesman? Do, as the spokesman for Esquerra Republicana has also said, a referendum and we will see it, because we already made one that was legal on October 1, 2017 and gained independence. You have said that rights are defended and respected, and that is what we are doing. You will no longer decide that we no longer want the independence of our country. As long as the citizens wish, as long as the strength of the people continues, everything is possible. Visca Catalunya free!
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Illamola. For the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Sánchez, more than two and a half hours of intervention and you have not explained to us why you gave the order to the Socialist MEPs in the European Parliament to vote against condemning the Moroccan regime? Are you really going to do an extraordinary plenary session to come here and talk about European issues and you are not going to explain this? Or do you think you've already given them? Because you were the only ones, together with the Le Pen MEPs and two more extremists, who voted against putting Morocco in its place with human rights abuses. I don't know, something will mean you don't want to say anything. You said in your intervention that we can't hide our heads like the ostrich with respect to the problems, and the truth is that I totally agree with you. In education will you continue to hide your head like the ostrich, saying that you have made a wonderful reform, that all you do is harm the working classes because you cannot afford to have school reinforcement, send your children to study English or have access to certain methodologies that are much more advanced? Do you really believe that you can be proud of the health management that your government is doing? Do you really think that a government president can simply look at, as if he were seeing a series of Netflix, the abysmal differences between health services in the different autonomous communities? You are not an aggregate data dispenser, Minister, you have to be the guarantee of the health rights of all Spaniards on an equal footing throughout the Spanish territory and, if you do not have the competence to do so right now, hold on, referral to it. By the way, Mr. Sanchez, do doctors and private health nurses not save lives? Don't private health people save lives, Mr. Sanchez? Did they call out during the pandemic as well, as did doctors and other public health personnel? Didn't they? I'm saying that because here the only one who has insulted public servants in Congress of Deputies, you know who it was? You, who called 'piolins' the civil guards and the national police who gave their face for Spain in Catalonia. [[applause]] By the way, Mr Sánchez, since we are talking about Health, very briefly, I ask you now, please, to unlock the law of help to the families of the sick of ALS, to unlock that law, which represents very little budget compared to what is then spent on other things and is the difference between the life and death of many people. Do not force ALS patients to choose between ruining their family or dying. Finally, the issue of pensions. Mr Sánchez, but what credit do you have for raising pensions by decree by 8.5%, all if you don't pay them? What would be worthy for a President of the Government would be to dare, as other Presidents of Europe are daring to do, to make reforms in order to ensure their sustainability, to increase their birth rate, to fight against the submerged economy, to link pensions to wages or to dare to get involved in the defiance of the public administration, its bureaucracy and its duplicity. It's just that the only quiet reform you've done has been that of the Criminal Code to help your partners. And why does he do it? Because he is not concerned about the future of Spain, he is only concerned about the future in his presidency. That's not progressive. By the way, Mr Patxi López, there is no government or state or God who tells women what we have to do with our body, except if it is voluntary prostitution or subordinated gestation, which then you come to tell women what they can do with their body voluntarily. [[Applauds]] You do not defend women's freedom to do what they want, you defend women's freedom to do what you want. That is why you are conservative, because you want to impose your morality. That's a supine hypocrisy. Finally, Mr Sánchez laughed at the demonstration at Cibeles, and Mr Sánchez was very keen to go mad today. Don't you laugh when your partner comes and says we live in an oppressive state? What's the matter, don't you dare laugh at Mrs. Aizpurua because she's condemned for apologizing for terrorism? Don't you dare laugh at the gentlemen of Esquerra when they speak of the National Police as Francoist police and want to drive them from Via Laietana to make a monumental anti-Francoist? Don't you dare laugh at the gentlemen of Republican Left? Don't you dare laugh at your councillors of the Socialist Party of Catalonia who have recognized that they threw national police like dogs out of hotels? Mr. Sánchez, on January 7, this year, 20,000 people came forward to ask for release and amnesty for the mass murderers. Do you know who was at the head? Its partners in Bildu and the main plane of Esquerra. Don't you laugh at that demonstration, Mr. Sanchez? Let's see if it's so brave of you to laugh at that manifestation of the ages instead of laughing at the manifestation of Cybeles. And I went with my head high and without hiding and without complicating. And you know who I went with? With people who have played their lives before ETA like Maite Pagaza, like Fernando Savater, like, for example, Mr.Andres Trapiello or like the young people of S'ha Afinet! Count up to a million before you laugh at those gentlemen while you applaud your partners, up to a million, because you... [[applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u219	Mrs. Arrimadas, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u220	I'm done with this. You have an attitude, if I may say so, so emboldened and so rude to those who have played their lives against ETA, and then you look so soft to those who pay homage, that really, Mr. Sánchez, you don't know if it gives more shame or pity your attitude. But I'll tell you more, it's all good for you because you don't care about anything. You have achieved something very difficult, which was to empty the Socialist Workers and Spanish Party of morality, but make no mistake, because emptying the PSOE of morality does not mean emptying the whole of Spain of morality. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mr Esteban Bravo has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u222	Mr President, I did not intend to intervene, but, as always, Escrivá has linked it to us and it is gone, it is not. [[Laughter]] You've been given a note to read it, with data that I believe are not correct. I, on this issue of migration and Vitoria, have really come to lower the tension and to reach an agreement, that is still my intention. But, of course, the information I have does not coincide with our knowledge of that matter, and I will give you a personal detail. Working groups? Of course; moreover, we thought the relationship was very good because there has been exchange of work, of subjects, but this topic has never come out. I was called to a meeting by Mr Escriva on 30 November to talk about pensions, I went, we were long, and he, not me, took the subject of migration away from me. I guess we'd be about three-quarters of an hour talking about the subject, well, because this matter never mentioned it to me at any time, so what do you want me to think about? In any case, be it one thing or the other, the important thing is that we get together and get to a meeting. But I do tell you that there, in Euskadi, the rest of the political forces or Caritas NGOs working with refugees do not see that this idea raised by Mr Escrivá is the right one. Let's see if we work together. I see that you do not intend to speak, to accommodate, with legal or constitutional changes, feelings of national ownership or participation in Europe, but, as you have gone into detail, for us of course it is important, and it is also signed by you because for us it is a matter that must be addressed sooner or later. But, as you have entered into specific things, I would like to talk to you about a very specific subject and I appeal to your personal sensitivity. Look, I'm going to talk to you about the loss of the New Economy of Language. It is a PART that is very well endowed; with 11 billion euros, nothing less. You have made some presentations on this theme, on the theme of San Millán, the center of San Millán della Cogolla, of the Emilian Glosas, where also a few words appear in Basque, allocating 20 million for that center, only for the Castilian. But, look, of those 11 billion, what can be for Spanish and other different languages, 195, and you have already made the distribution. Well, 195, 30 million for other languages. Do you know what happened to the Basque woman? Of 11 billion, 2 million euros. I do not think it is serious, Mr President, especially if we believe what the Constitution says that it is a cultural heritage of special respect and protection, a pre-European language which, together with finances, is the only one that is not indo-European. That is why it is such a different language that, in such a changing world and with today's digitalization, it needs these aids, it needs, let's say, to get into the wagon of modernity and the new times. There are families, parents, grandparents, children living in Basque and who want their descendants to live in Basque, and are European citizens. Therefore, I sincerely believe that, of only EUR 11 billion, only EUR 2 million is for the Basque region, it does not seem fair to me. I think you should think about it, and I would appreciate it if we could bring this up again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Esteban. For the Socialist Group, Mr López Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u224	Thank you, President. The truth is that I was not going to go up in this replica either, but it is that some personal allusions force me to intervene. [[laughs]] First, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, tell Santi - who has done the usual thing, to leave and to leave, that is his great capacity for work, that is his great effort in this Parliament - that, at this point in my life, I do not need to flatter anyone, that I have never done it and that I always say what I feel and what I think, and it is in the antipodes of what you represent, Santi, in the antipodes. [[rumors]] [[Applauds]] Secondly, Mrs Gamarra, I know very well who I am to be lehendakari with, and I will never have heard you deny that agreement with the People's Party, ever. [[Rumors]] Moreover, I will never have heard of the refusal of a People's Party with the consent of a State and a vision of a country; moreover, I believe that this PP is very necessary, but it does not exist, it does not exist! [[Applauds]] Mrs. Gamarra, it doesn't matter if your leader names himself Fraga, Aznar, Rajoy, Married or now Feijóo, it doesn't matter: every time they lose the elections, and citizens place them in opposition always do the same: not to accept the rules of the game. [[Mr. Matarí Sáez speaks words that are not perceived.-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u225	Mr. Matarí, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u226	Not accepting the rules of the game is the nature of the scorpion, and it doesn't matter. [[Mr. Matarí Sáez utters words that are not perceived]] Yours for talking like that from that rostrum! [[Mr. Matarí Sáez and Mr. Aragonés Mendiguchia speak words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u227	Mr. Matarí, Mr. Aragonese, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u228	But if I don't care... Look at the nature of the scorpion, and it also doesn't matter that they put Borja Semper, whom I have great personal appreciation, to give his face, because Borja, with his speech, has lasted his good image exactly a television, a television. [[Applauds]] His speech was made yesterday by his moderate leader, who went to Cadiz with all solemnity, made his own proposal to himself, agreed and made a compromise with himself and signed it alone. Come on, not the best Juan Palomo! [[Laughter]] Sure, and then they offer it to the others. But I do not want to remain in the anecdote because Mr Feijoo's intervention yesterday, when he presented this and some of the things contained in the preamble to this that you call an institutional quality plan, is beginning to be worrying and dangerous. I said four things not to extend. Mr. Feijóo said that there is a risk that the Constitution will be taken away from us, with such patrimony as yours, as if the Constitution were yours alone. [[Mr. De Olano Vela utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u229	Mr. De Olano, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u230	Of course, and I'm not surprised, because they make a reading... [[Mr. De Olano Vela: Call the question! Always the same.]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u231	Mr. De Olano, silence, please. [[Mr. De Olano Vela utters words that are not perceived]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u232	Mr. De Olano, you called the order for the first time. Mr. Olano, I ask you to remain silent.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u233	No, I know very well about geography, and I know what it was to do there, to Cadiz. To say that they were the most constitutionalists; those who have not complied with the Constitution for five years, those who make such a narrow and small reading of the Constitution that only they can, that is to take it from the citizens of this country. Look, he also said, and repeats it a lot, that the executive branch acts behind the back of popular sovereignty, and says it the one who still does not recognize that popular sovereignty is exercised in the ballot boxes, and that the ballot boxes said that this is the legitimate government, that Pedro Sánchez is the legitimate president, and that you are in the opposition. [[Applauds]] Say it at once. This is the legal government and the legitimate government, and Pedro Sánchez is the legitimate president of this country. On the contrary, what you do is simply question democracy itself, that is your democratic culture, and before you protested what I had told you. He also said that there is a weakening of the separation of powers, and it is said by those who tried to prevent this Congress and the Senate, the Executive, from carrying out their work, taking it to the courts in the hands of some judges with their expired mandate to decide this. [[Applauds]] They also speak in that writing of the obsessive colonization of different institutions by this government; of course, because when you govern the charges you name them by lot among all the Spaniards, and as you are very lucky, Feijóo has been playing Post Offices; his minister Pilar del Castillo and Montoro's brother, he played the CIS, and his deputy López Amor played Spanish Television. [[laughs]] Of course, yours is by lot, in the others it's hunted. He says, and I don't want to go further with this, that the rule of law is weakening with its declared enemies. The problem is that for you all who do not commune with your mill wheels are enemies, the problem is that you want the symbols, the institutions, the Constitution, even the power, the government to deny them to others. This is their patriotism of bracelet and flag, and that is why - and I end with this - they rise again and again to this rostrum to say that all that this Government does, that all its agreements, that all its measures, that all its policies, that are helping so much the people of this country, are done exclusively to resist a little more in La Moncloa. Well, look, if all I've said on the list I've read before is resist, comrades and companions, live the resistance! [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, applause.-Applause from the members of the Government]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Lopez. I give the floor to the President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u235	Thank you, Madam President. It is already ten and twenty o'clock at night and I would like to thank the majority of the parliamentary groups for their tone. It is true that in this Congress we hear things that sometimes far exceed parliamentary courtesy, but I am not going to get into it. Obviating that Spain is growing more than the European average and saying that Spain is worse than the rest of the European economies, it is simply a lie that is not contrasted, does not sympathize with the data of the Spanish economy. And that doesn't mean that things don't have to improve, it doesn't mean that we don't have a time of uncertainty ahead of us, of a lot of complexity arising from the crisis of this war in Ukraine. The same applies to employment and the same to inflation. But, ladies and gentlemen, since last 24 February - this is how I began my first intervention; today it is eleven months since the start of the Putin war in Ukraine - the Government of Spain has not hidden the gravity of the situation, nor has the Government of Spain told the Spaniards that what we had before us was going to be easy, but we have told the Spaniards that, both at European level and at national level, we were going to put all the resources of the State to defend their income, to protect their well-being and to make the transformations that allow Europe and Spain to be freer and more autonomous in the face of blackmails that can make autocracies, whether Russian or any other. In that context, ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to make this appearance. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups that have made it possible to validate the sixth aid package in response to the war in Ukraine, because, indeed, that is what we are helping people with. And beyond the disqualifications and insults of those who have nothing more than that, that insult, because they have no project, I want to stay with the best of what has happened in the General Courts, and it is the demand with our vote and with our action for a useful policy, which is a policy that serves the citizenry and that is far from all this noise with which, basically, the only thing they try to hide is that this government, together with a broad parliamentary majority, what it does is to protect the middle class, the workers, and to do that transformation task - I also say with conviction, because I have heard it - that I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is admired and recognized outside Spain, in many countries of Europe with left-wing governments and also with conservative governments. [[rumors]] Thank you very much. [[Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the members of the Government,]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-01-24-CD230124.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting rose. It was ten and twenty-five minutes of the night.
