ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The meeting was resumed. Before we begin the session, I would like to say a few brief words: Tomorrow, 24 February, one year after the start of the war in Ukraine, triggered by an illegal and brutal aggression against a sovereign country, is celebrated. The war this year has been a challenge to our shared values as democrats and Europeans. Russia has not only violated international law by invading the territory of another country, it has also done so by indiscriminately attacking the civilian population and committing war crimes on Ukrainian territory. Despite all this, a year later, Ukraine remains standing, fighting for its dignity and freedom. In defence of these values and in solidarity with all the victims of the war, especially the children, on behalf of the Congress of Deputies, representative of the Spanish people, I would like to reiterate that we are with the Ukrainian people, sharing their pain and suffering and trusting that, as soon as possible, a just peace will be opened and we can leave behind the barbarity that we are living in the heart of Europe. Thank you so much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u2	We begin with the items on the agenda relating to the direct and single reading of the draft laws amending Law 28/1990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre; amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and approving the methodology for marking the Basque Country quota for the five-year period 20222026. As agreed by the Board of Spokespersons, these points will be discussed cumulatively. I would remind you that the amendments to all these initiatives will be voted on at the end of this debate. I give the floor, first of all, on behalf of the Government, to the Minister for Finance and Public Service.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u3	Thank you very much, President. Egun on everyone and everyone. I would especially like to greet the representatives of the Basque Autonomous Government and the Government of Navarre who are accompanying us today in this rostrum. Indeed, I am addressing the House to present the draft laws amending the Navarra Economic Convention, the draft law on Economic Concert with the Basque Country and also the methodology for the latter's reporting over the next five years, against which the parliamentary groups of Citizens and VOX have submitted amendments to the whole. I'll talk about that later. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus, first of all, on taking account of the content of these rules, which we propose to include as laid down in the current legislation, and which provides, in the event of a reform in the State tax system, for both administrations to proceed by mutual agreement with the relevant adaptation of the agreement and the Economic Convention. And that's right. Since last year we met in this very House to approve the latest amendments to the Navarro agreement and the Basque concert, there have been new changes in the tax system, as you know, in the line of those who have the most economic capacity to contribute more to be able to finance them measures that pale the effects of the war for the social majority of the country. These new figures must therefore be incorporated, as laid down in the outside texts themselves. We are not going to discuss these changes, since we have already done so in this House, they are known to your ladies and gentlemen, but we are going to record them for the purposes of the Minutes. The excise duty on non-reusable plastic packaging is incorporated and the points of connection are established to distribute the tax levy between the two tax administrations. The connection points applicable to the tax on fluorinated greenhouse gases are also amended. This structure, as you know, has been modified in the state regulations and the location of the establishment where the activities of manufacturers or warehousers are carried out has been established as a point of connection. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u5	Thirdly, the new temporary solidarity tax for the great fortunes is incorporated. It also regulates the mechanism for adjusting the excise duty on plastic packaging to consumption and also the mechanism mentioned above, so that it can be recorded. As regards the tax on landfilling, incineration and co-incineration of waste, this tax has already been incorporated into the Navarro agreement that we approved in 2022, but now we have to include it in the Basque Economic Concert. Also the consumption adjustments that have been necessary as a result of the entry into force of some of the laws regulating these taxes. On the other hand, I bring before all of you the bill approving the methodology for marking the quota that will govern the next five years. As you know, it was agreed between the two governments on 17 November 2022, within the framework, as established by law, of the Joint Economic Concert Commission. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this debate that brings us here today is that of the procedure that governs in these cases, which are quite frequent adaptations, as you know, when the government is dynamic in incorporating new tax figures, but whose motive is, first of all - and I want to highlight it - on the very configuration of our model of state; a configuration that not everyone shares, but which, of course, has in the constitutional text the foundation, the mandate that is fulfilled through these laws that make it possible. [[The Rumors Continue]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u6	Excuse me, Minister. Ladies, I'm asking you to be quiet, please! [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u7	Thank you, President. He said that the first part, being able to fulfil that constitutional mandate after the changes that the tax system has undergone, is a binding part. And the second, which is equally important, also has to do with the objective that we have been aiming at throughout the legislature to deepen the modernization of the tax system itself, which faces new challenges, the 21st century's own, with regard to digitisation, the circular economy, and also the ability of economic reality to fulfil that constitutional requirement that each should contribute according to its capacity and thus seek a fair, progressive and fair tax system. There is no doubt - and in the course of this debate it will be present - that taxes are the main source of funding for public services; that is, they are the ones that enable a welfare state to guarantee the equality of all citizens, at least according to the constitutional social pact, regardless of where they reside. This relates to housing, health, education, dependence, free justice and all public policies promoted by different administrations. This is why the agreement is being implemented with the Autonomous Communities and, in this case, also with the Basque Government and the Foral Government of Navarre. But that is not what some of the groups who have tabled amendments to the whole, who argue that today's debate is nothing more than to deepen, to deepen the privileges of one territory over another and, therefore, to increase the gap or inequalities between the Spanish. On the contrary, it is no more than a matter of giving effect to respect for the framework, to the rules which were born and emerged from that common pact which implies the Magna Charter and which we agreed among all those who were present at that time and which has been the main democratic stimulus of which we have been endowed in these years of democracy. These changes, in addition to being a legal obligation, show that both the Basque concert and the Navarro convention are useful tools that adapt to the changes of the moment of the tax system, that allow for the establishment of relations between the General Administration and the autonomous communities, which are incorporated into it, and that, therefore, they also point out the elements that we have permanently to agree to make possible the Compound State of which we have been endowed. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of Citizens and of VOX, I have to tell you that this presentation of the amendments to the whole surprise us all, once again, because of the lack of knowledge shown about the reality of the country and what characterizes it, which is nothing but plurality. [[Applauds]] And from this rostrum we will repeat it again and again: this country is rich, precisely thanks to that diversity, to legal diversity, to social diversity and also to political diversity; a diversity that in this historical configuration of its institutions holds deep wisdom. Because, Your Honor, the autonomous question, the outlaw rights of Basque and Navarra communities have always had a very important importance in the politics and history of our country. Fortunately, since 1979 we had the Constitution and a democratic model in which we could all feel referenced, the constitutional text itself closed the debate with the same concept of forality. It therefore guaranteed a framework of coexistence in progress and peace, both for the citizens of Euskadi and Navarra and for the rest of the Spaniards. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Constitution is too important to pretend to distort as appropriate at every moment. On the other hand, it is something we have been observing throughout the legislature. Some groups tortically use this or that article of our Constitution - that of all - when we discuss elements or policies that have to do with the very essence of the autonomous model, therefore, of the constitutional model. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to recall here today, in this rostrum, what the Constitution says in its first additional provision on this matter. I think that everyone here is aware of this, although sometimes we try to forget it because it doesn't exactly fit our headlines. He said that the Constitution protected and respected the historical rights of the outlying territories, and said that the general action of that regime would be carried out, if necessary, within the framework of the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy; statutes of autonomy that this House itself approved granting to these territories the prerogatives that today are discussed and expanded to give effect to the implementation of these high-level laws. Therefore, Your Honor, there is no debate that we are outside the constitutional framework. We comply scrupulously with the legal system, and we also do so with the pleasure of respecting a framework of coexistence that has prevailed and that has allowed for so long the understanding between the different sensibilities. In the face of this position, Mrs Arrimadas signs a number of amendments to her group as a whole in which she accuses the Government of the fact that the single reading procedure denies the possibility of the debate. I do not know, Mrs Arrimadas, whether it is out of ignorance or self-interest, but it seems that you ignore the fact that the case law has been very clear on this matter, ratifying the thesis that the single reading procedure responds to the negotiated and agreed nature of the texts processed. There have been many rulings of the Constitutional Court that have always ruled in favour and, in this regard, the High Court understands that the agreement, the concert and the quota are actuated between administrations. In other words, a pre-negotiation phase is established between the national Government and the Government of the Basque or Navarra Community, which is reflected in a text agreed between the two parties, and then there is a second phase in which it is adopted by bill, with a single article, with no amendments of any kind. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is not the intention of the Government to coerce any debate, as you think we are, that the very basis that gives substance to this institutional guarantee of forality lies precisely in its peaceful nature. If not, it would make no sense for the agreement between the two administrations to be established, it would leave the negotiating capacity to be lost, it would leave the Basque Government or the Navarro Government unable to agree precisely, if the procedure in these Courts were a different procedure. Therefore, Your Honor, what I want to move is that there is no opacity, there is compliance with the constitutional mandate, which sets out how the amendments to the concert are to be developed, in which there is an agreement between the governments I have appointed and the central government, and which cannot be modified by the will of any of the parties alone. It happens in a similar way to other bills and, therefore, it is something that I believe is out of any doubt. The debate, Your Honor, is not stolen. Each group goes up to the rostrum and has the opportunity to express its opinion, approve or reject what has been agreed between the central government and the Basque and the Navarro, and from there each reflects it in its vote. As I have said, what we cannot do is to table amendments for the reason I have just expressed to you, which would leave out the very capacity of pact established in these kinds of laws. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, we had the opportunity to discuss this a few months ago, when we were discussing the convention and the concert in this House, and I say it again today. I believe that your amendment to the whole is a lack of respect for the Basque and Navarro citizens. You call your autonomous communities provinces, and it is disrespectful not only to them, but to the rest of the country and to the Spanish Constitution itself. [[Applauds]] Because, as I said earlier, the debate is not stolen. Each political group, when it now comes up to this rostrum, will express its opinion, but it seems that the least in maintaining the decorum and the forms in this House is that the institutions representing each of the administrations are called or designated with the nomenclature that laws as important as the Constitution or the organic laws governing the statutes of autonomy grant them. The rest, ladies and gentlemen, as I say, is a constitutional or unconstitutional discourse, as you prefer, but which in some way probably reflects what you think of the Constitution. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, probably out of ignorance, you, in the explanatory statement, convey a lack of evidence, I would say, about what our history has represented and a lack of knowledge of what is established regarding these territories in the Constitution itself. But I sum it up in a very clear way in your tiny conception of Spain, in which you always call the homeland as if in it those who think like you, or exclude a part of the homeland as you do not think, do not share ideology or, somehow, do not have the same feeling or perception as all of you. We are used to seeing it in its explanatory statements and in its amendments to the whole: a lack of respect for the cultural, linguistic diversity or the historical rights of some territories and, therefore, the denial of respect for the framework of coexistence that we have all endowed ourselves with to continue working and contributing to a country that has been built in its best years precisely on the basis of that respect. That misunderstanding or rejection of what forality represents is an example of that monocolor country which they would like to see set in motion once again, forgetting the whole phase of the transition, of democratic development and, ultimately, that the constitutional pact will be without cause, without effect, putting an end to many issues - I insist - which have been and have been the subject of intense debate, intense agreement and respect to continue living in our country. To deny this forality is to deny the Constitution, but above all it is not to understand Spain or Euskadi or Navarra nor, I believe, the sentiment of the citizens of this country, which always develops in a much more tolerant and much more understanding lines with the different sensibilities, both ideological and political and territorial, that are expressed in this House or that are expressed in the framework of the Senate. I imagine that the proposal for an amendment to the whole will have been written by some member of your party, of that joseantonian current that a former leader of your party commented a few days ago on a television program, and you have not denied that current or said anything about it. Otherwise, I can't understand that reactionary vision they've raised. I conclude, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a new right which is new at the time of creation, but very old, as always, in ideas, and very old with regard to the consideration of the structure of the Spanish State. It is an insolidary right, contrary to the State of self-government and which lives permanently from confrontation, which tries to draw as political revenue, as electoral revenue, the struggle between the territories of our country and between citizens of different ideologies. In short, they live on a permanent basis from anger, noise and trying to make politics not useful for the majority of citizens; on the contrary, it causes detachment and, therefore, it is the economic interests, the predominant interests that can mark the way for the citizens of our country. This right tells us that the concert is an attack on the equality of the Spaniards, and they resort to the manipulation of the constitutional text and to exacerbate that feeling of aggravation. That is why I believe you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX and Citizens, have a serious problem with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this House. You think that the fulfillment of this legal framework is only for the days that come to you, a few days yes and another days no, but we twist the speech, get involved in the national flag and demand to jump everything to the toaster. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, it is the kind of attitude that you are constantly promoting and seeking, making politics an exercise that departs from nobility, that does not allow dialogue to be opened up between those we think differently, that encourages noise, snoring, the worse, the better; in short, that puts red carpet on all these kinds of approaches, including the record of that motion of censure that we met yesterday. And what you always claim with your words, even with your attitude in this House, is to throw the stone, hide your hand and be behind those who do the job of putting forward everything that, in the background, you believe is of interest to you. We, the rest of the members of this House, are going to continue to work to ensure that citizens perceive every day that the usefulness of what is being done here, of what is being done by the Executive or of what is being done in the Basque Government or in the Navarro attacks the fundamental problems arising from diseases such as those arising from the pandemic or from the war in Ukraine. We are not going to be dragged by those who want to return to a centralist state for nostalgia of past times or for trying to become as a gap in a public scene that has turned their backs, lords of Citizens, alone and exclusively because they have not been able to take advantage of that gap that society has given them, because they have permanently been the collectible, something more indifferent to the strategy of the People's Party. Faced with that old centralism of VOX or that useless policy of the worst, best of Citizens, the others will continue to defend a model that gives us stability, poses us the capacity of understanding and reflects the free will of all the citizens of this country; a model that integrates the Basque concert and the Navarro convention perfectly. I therefore ask for your vote, because it represents the will negotiated by both the central government and the Basque and the Navarro, to continue to make progress in improving relations between the two institutions, especially tax relations, an improvement that does nothing but ensure that the public services enjoyed by the citizens of the Basque Country and Navarre have the best possible funding, all within the framework of solidarity between autonomous communities that marks the Constitution itself. To vote affirmatively on these bills is to vote for Spain's autonomy, for Spain's welfare state that protects us and that allows citizens to continue to progress. Let us celebrate, therefore, what unites us as a diverse society and as a plural coexistence, since in our differences we have the best tool to find ourselves, to continue to progress and to continue to build a free and democratic society. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u8	Thank you very much, Minister. Two amendments have been tabled to the full refund of each bill. For the defence of the amendments tabled, I have the floor by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Arrimadas García.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Montero, pay close attention to these statements: there is a lack of transparency in the Basque quota. First, they agree on what figure it has to end up with, and then articulate the mechanism to make that figure the right one. That does not seem logical, and less so when all the autonomous communities in unison are calling for a new funding system. That's what you said in 2017, when I was a tax advisor to the Andalusian Board. [[The Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, makes a gesture with her hand.-Applause]] He does this to me with his hand as if he said, "Which is why much has happened!" Of course, because since you're a minister...I think you're going through a washing tunnel of principles and values, the Sanchez tunnel, and then it doesn't matter what you've believed before, it doesn't matter what you think; you just become a Sanchez minister capable of doing and saying the opposite of what you said five years ago. Were you an ignorant man in 2017 who didn't understand how this Economic Concert worked? Isn't that right? [[Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] Then you will support our amendment as a whole, because if in 2017 I said it was a system that did not have transparency, in 2023 it is exactly the same. Then you'll criticize him, won't you? [[Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] If in 2017 I was already saying that this was not a calculation, that this was a political issue and that, then, I was doing the trick to get to that number, I guess in 2023 I'll say the same thing. Or have you already lost all those principles on Mr. Sanchez's washing train? Do you know why today we are doing the same thing that was done in 2017? Because those who decide today the money of all the Spaniards who will go to cover the services of the Basque quota are the same. Because no matter who rules Spain, the PNV always rules Spain! It doesn't matter how much the Spaniards lose, because the PNV always wins! [[Applauds]] Five years ago Mr Montoro of the People's Party was here, and today we have Mrs Montero of the Socialist Party, doing the same. You know the only thing that's changed? A vowel: from Montoro to Montero. [[Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] And today the PP and the PSOE are again confabulating so that the Spaniards do not know what is going on here today, and I am not surprised, because today you are not approving a reasonable calculation of the Basque quota for the next five years, no; you are approving a new scam to the whole of the Spaniards. [[The Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures.-Applause]] And don't deny me, don't deny me with your head, if you recognize it yourself! If this isn't a scam, why are they mixing it with two other laws that require a separate debate? If this isn't a scam, why don't you come here and let the experts be heard to make a first estimate of the quota? If it is not a scam, why are you dealing with it as a matter of extreme urgency, when the financing system of the Autonomous Communities has been blocked since 2014? Moreover, Mrs Montero, you were saying to me: no, it is that it has been negotiated before; then, here it only remains to be approved. And why don't you explain it, Mrs. Montero? Where do the 1467 million of the quota come from? You cannot explain it, Mrs Montero, because it has not been calculated, because what has been done is to negotiate behind closed doors under the blackmail of the Basque Nationalist Party. The calculation of the quota is supposed to be an objective calculation. [[Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] He denies me with his head, tells me not to minister! Of course I do. We have to take on the burdens assumed and those not assumed by the Basque institutions, make an estimate and, from there, with dozens of indicators, the calculation of the quota comes out. [[Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado: Of course it comes out of there]] And where is the explanation for that negotiation? You're not explaining where the quota number comes from. Look, I'm going to give you an example and you'll understand better, Mrs. Montero. Look, this, over 120 pages, is the information that the state has to give about the liquidation of the resources of the financing system of the out-of-state communities, eh, gentlemen of the PNV?, of the people. [[shows a document]] This is what the State has to say: 120 pages, only one year, to justify the liquidation of the financing system. Do you know what the Government of Spain brings to explain the quota for the next five years? This. [[Shows a written sheet.-Applause]] This, this is the show that this is a scam. [[showing the two documents]] [[Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] This is not an objective calculation and, Mrs Montero, when you want to talk about what is the Economic Concert, which is regulated in the Spanish Constitution, and I will give you my opinion. Of course, we recognise that it is recognised in the Constitution. [[Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, makes negative gestures]] Yes, he is. Another thing is that we would like to live in a nation of free and equal citizens, but it is constitutional. What is not constitutional is the chanchullo of the Basque quota business, which is not a calculation. That is why, as you know, I say to you that none of the Members who come up here today to attack us will be able to explain where the 1467 million are coming from, because you do not even know it, Mrs Montero. [[Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, makes affirmative gestures]] Because you can't justify it. Because the only thing you're coming here with is this, which is what caused you shame in 2017, before you went through Mr. Sánchez's early washing tunnel. [[back to show the previous leaflet]] [[Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, makes negative signs]] Look, this is not in compliance with the Spanish Constitution. Of course I do! Because article 138 of the Constitution says that the statutes can never imply economic or social privilege. It violates article 156 of the Constitution, which establishes solidarity between Spaniards. It does not comply with the law of the concert itself in its article 2, which states that solidarity between the Spanish must be respected. In the end, the Basque Country, which is the second richest territory in Spain, ends up receiving more than it brings. Other citizens and businesses located in other poorer territories end up paying more to cover the Basque quota, because it is not a reasonable and fair calculation. The rich in Spain pay less and receive more, as long as they are the masters of the Basque Nationalist Party. [[Applauds]] That happens today in Spain and that, you, gentlemen of the People's Party; you, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, and you, gentlemen of different parties, who some dare to call themselves leftists, is what you are going to approve here today. [[points to the bench of the People's Parliamentary Group in the Congress]] [[points to the bench of the Socialist Parliamentary Group]] [[points to the central part of the Chamber]] Today, deputies of the People's Party and the Socialist Party of Andalusia, Extremadura, Castile-La Mancha or any other territory other than the Basque Country will vote yes to territorial privileges. Today, those deputies of the PP and the PSOE will vote that yes to the citizens of their territories, who are poorer than the Basque Country, end up financing and paying more to the citizens and businesses of the Basque Country. Today, these PP and PSOE deputies are going to vote that yes, children in their territories have fewer resources than they need for health and education. Those deputies of the PP and PSOE today will vote that the Spaniards of their territories have less chance of surviving colon cancer than those living in other territories of Spain. Don't go back to your territories getting hit in the chest and saying they're defending you because today, here, you're stabbing them again. Socialists and the People's Party, what is being adopted here is the most retrograde, the most reactionary, the most classist and the least progressive that occurs in Spain every five years. And you know what happens? That you have managed to have people believe in Spain that the government has a progressive majority, that the Basque Nationalist Party is believed to be part of something that is progressive; the Basque Nationalist Party, the party founded by Sabino Arana, the party that has as its motto 'God and old laws', the party that least believes in the equality of all represented here. Next to the PNV, VOX is a progressive consensus. They make negative signs.-Applause.- Laughs). [[Several Members of the Basque Nationalist Party (EAJ-PNV)]] You are the biggest right in Spain: the insolidaria, the one that does not believe in the equality of the Spaniards. And, I tell you more, the Basque Nationalist Party not only negotiates money, it not only negotiates money, it negotiates impunity. Zaldibar's tragedy could have brought down any government in Spain, but it doesn't bother you. Look, I'm going to read you some cases of corruption, see if anyone here is familiar with them: Alonsotegi Eraikiz case, Balenciaga case, Bidegi case, Denokinn case, Elorza case, Epsilon case, Glass Costa case, Irun Hacienda case, Guipúzcoa Hacienda case, Hiriko case, Margüello case, Miñano case, News case, Pagalday case. Do these corruption cases sound familiar to you? Isn't that right? Because they are cases of corruption of the Basque Nationalist Party, they are like the sacred cow of Spanish politics. Nothing affects them. [[Applauds]] Do you remember Mr. Feijoo or Mr. Sánchez dealing with cases of PNV corruption? Because I remember Mr Feijoo talking about the ERE, and well what he does, and I remember Mr Sánchez talking about the Gürtel, and well what he does. Do you really believe that if Feijóo arrives, the problems of Spain will be solved? Do you believe that Feijóo is going to change the electoral law so that these gentlemen do not continue to decide Spanish politics? No, no, Feijóo is not going to end the privileges of the nationalists, he is going to shield them, which is what the People's Party has always done. And I am well advanced, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, I know that you who are most afraid of the whole parliamentary arch is Citizens. In fact, the other day a leader of his publicly acknowledged it, said almost textually: the biggest problem of Spanish politics is Citizens. And no wonder, because you know that PP is not a problem. You know that PSOE is not a problem, VOX is not a problem, that you can hang the labels of the extreme right. No, no. You know that if there is a party that can end this privilege and injustice in Spain that there are children born in Andalusia who know that they will have fewer opportunities than those born in other territories, that is us. And when you come out here - which none will be able to justify where you come from 1467 million - when you attack us I will put the attacks as medals, because I got into politics precisely to fight against this, I got into politics precisely to fight for a country of free and equal citizens, with the same rights, freedoms, the same opportunities and the same obligations throughout Spain, in a different country, with different languages - my children learn Catalan and Spanish at home - but a united country, without privileges of any kind. And I don't care what it costs, I don't care about the attacks, I don't care what it takes, because I know that in this country, sooner than later, those who hate and despise Spain will stop deciding the future of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Citations from the Citizens' Parliamentary Group]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u10	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. In defence of the amendments tabled, I have the floor, by the VOX Group, Mrs Cañizares Pacheco. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u11	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Minister, do not talk to me about unconstitutionality, because here the only unconstitutional is the government of Pedro Sánchez, who has three sentences for trampling on the Constitution and violating fundamental rights. [[Applauds]] And if we talk about former party members, there you have an empty seat, maybe he's seeing us from prison, the feminist party, and maybe he's in jail for being unfeminist. [[Minister of Finance and Public Service, Montero Quadrado, makes gestures]] Don't make me like this, you know what I'm talking about. [[Applauds]] Last Tuesday, without any shadow of doubt, we made it clear in this rostrum that the position of the VOX Parliamentary Group on both form and substance is a total disagreement with the three bills that we are debating today in a run-down and cumulative way. The PSOE is clear that it manages the Bureau of this Parliament and, in this case, with the complicity of the People's Party, and it is this bipartisanism that has decided that in twelve minutes let's make a paripé and not a real debate on the already agreed, sealed, privileged, unique, different and ad hoc financing of two Spanish autonomous communities, while the other fifteen regions are on the waiting list of the Minister of Finance since 2019 to talk about their own, their financing. [[Applauds]] The minister, when she swore her office, said that improving the financing of self-government will be one of the key issues on the new government's agenda; she said that we need to be able to explain very well how and where the euros are deposited for citizens to earn in quality of life; she said, on the Basque quota, that the important thing is to be transparent, and she said that we have to explain in a transparent way how the calculations are made, that it has never been fully explained how the services provided by the State are valued and that it is important that we take into account at this time that we live. How do you change the story, Caperucita, when you screw up the blue chair, right, minister? Finally, the usual thing: legal government, but illegitimate in all areas that he has lied to the Spanish, in his policy of pacts, in his policy of transparency; ah!, and in his policy of 'we will not raise taxes to the middle classes and to the working classes', because, minister, tell me why we are here today debating the amendment of the Navarro agreement and the Basque concert. For hobby? No! No! Because you have created new taxes for the Spaniards and you have to regulate your collection for Basque and Navarra communities. And who did the taxes go to? All citizens. Also, to the popular classes. Or, tell me, who pays the plastic tax? You know that only with that tax on plastics will you raise 690 million euros, which will be much more than what you will stop collecting for the temporary decrease of VAT, which will be 630 million. So, here, Hacienda always wins. And who loses? The usual, the most humble Spaniards. [[Applauds]] We love, admire, feel proud of the cultural, artistic, heritage, gastronomic, linguistic, landscape diversity of each and every corner of Spain, a diversity that enriches us, and that is why we have this feeling of belonging to something greater and that cohesions that diversity, which is our nation, our homeland and Spain. [[Applauds]] So, in the VOX Parliamentary Group, we start from a principle enshrined in our Constitution. For us, all Spaniards are equal before the law. Therefore, in accordance with that fundamental right and constitutional principle, no rule, agreement or convention can violate that principle. And although many of you will make reference to historical rights to justify issues that have nothing to do with it, we, this, neither discuss nor deny it. What we do say is that, by appealing to equality, to articles 31 and 138 of the Constitution, no agreement signed within the constitutional framework can break the principle of solidarity and the differences between the statutes will never imply economic and social privileges. And the substantive issue is not the way in which relations between the Basque and Navarra communities and the State are established, whether this is a privilege in itself or a violation of the Constitution, but rather the result of that relationship and of that agreement, of that agreement, which runs counter to the principles of solidarity and equality. [[Applauds]] Because you, the government of the PSOE and also of the People's Party, have always built the house on the roof. In other words, the Navarro agreement and the Basque concert are a political agreement, an agreement that decides how much state resources will remain in these communities and, therefore, will finance their public services, their health, their education, their universities and they will not reverse in the rest of Spain. It would not be a privilege if, in carrying out the reverse mathematical operation, i.e. keeping everything constant - collection, competences -, we calculate what resources belong to the Basque and Navarra communities by the method of the common system. If the result of that mathematical - and not political - operation were to cast the same figure as the convention and the concert, then you would prove that there is no privilege. But you know that this is not the case, and there have been and are various authors, researchers, articles and studies over the years that have shown exactly the opposite. And it is that both the Navarro convention and the Basque concert generate more resources for these communities, because you agree the result and then adjust the method. [[Applauds]] Because we're talking about the two Spanish communities with the highest per capita income. And we are very happy that the Basques and the Navarros can enjoy better taxation, better health, better education, although, in the specific case of the Basque community, it could still be better if the party that has ruled there for more than forty years was not one of the parties with the most cases of corruption in Spain, where there have been bites, illegal commissions and other chanchullos that have diverted public money for particular purposes, thus depriving Basque citizens of receiving greater and better public services. [[applause]] And it is that corruption in Spain is a shadow that hovers over many politicians. Therefore, we only stand against those privileges that involve injecting more public money into certain regions, assuming a comparative aggravation for the rest of the Spaniards. Ladies and gentlemen, there is enough literature in Spain - of all the signs, colors and parties - against these ad hoc financing formulas for two autonomous communities, but nobody dares to put the rattlesnake on the cat. There is the opacity, which Mrs Montero claimed when she was not a minister; there is Mr Iceta's coupon, when she did not have a wallet either. Finally, that you change speech like jacket and, depending on where you are and the chair you occupy - which is most painful - change your principles and change them because you don't have them, simply and simply. [[Applauds]] We will say exactly the same in Madrid, Toledo, Navarre, Murcia and Barcelona: equality, equality and equality. It is precisely you, the socialists, and the PP do so ten years late but it ends up doing the same: they face regions of Spain in an open struggle for water; they face regions with fiscal dumping; they face men with women; they face LGBT people with heteros; they face workers with entrepreneurs; they are rich with poor; up and down, and they face them because their DNA, their essence, their raison d'être comes from struggle, confrontation and revenge. [[Applauds]] Centuries ago it was the class struggle and its revenue is not in progress or progress, its partisan and interested revenue is in something that is very old, this of: divide and you will win, and in VOX we appeal precisely to the opposite, to the feeling of coexistence, of agreement, of unity, of solidarity. [[Applauds]] That's what you hate. Look, whether we have different opinions or ideas about matters and debates that you wanted to close years ago through your totalitarianism and the imposition of the single speech, it is lawful and part of the democratic game, of the plurality that you talk about, but, of course, as Mr Sánchez once in a while betrays the subconscious, yesterday he said in the control session that he wants everyone to return to the fold. Yes, to the fold. That's what he told the People's Party. [[Applauds]] And it is that, of course, Mr Sánchez is the shepherd and you are the sheep who shoot and vouch for Mr Sánchez's misdeeds, his continuous misdeeds against the Spaniards, against the weakest, against the women and in favour of the criminals. With us they know that they will not count, because we are not the flock of any pastor, we have come uniquely and exclusively to serve the Spaniards. [[Applauds]] You defend this form of financing of Navarre and the Basque provinces - yes, the Basque provinces - for one purpose only, the votes, the wild card of the nationalist vote, in case. With Catalonia they do it in another way, they do it via general budgets of the State, approving the amendments that Mr Bel says, which he himself says are very pretty. Well, that's it, and here they're all quiet. I think it is enough of the Persian market and the purchase of wills. [[Applauds]] To finish, I'm going to bring you to your historical memory a paradigmatic case on behalf of the Navarro convention. Do you remember what happened a few years ago with the Volkswagen VAT in Navarre? There, VAT is collected by the Hacienda Foral, on account of the sale of vehicles made by Volkswagen to a subsidiary that had its tax domicile in Barcelona. This subsidiary was the one that exported vehicles to the European Union and other countries. In this triangle it was the Foral Finance of Navarra, but then the one who requested the refund of VAT was that subsidiary company located in Barcelona. So, who were you asking for a refund? Oh, surprise! The tax agency, right? I mean, the box of the rest of the Spaniards. For this reason, Hacienda raised an inspection report of 17 billion euros to Navarre, which, by the work and grace of Mr Montoro, we ended up paying this irregularity also to the rest of Spain. [[Applauds]] The VOX Parliamentary Group therefore opposes the existence of special economic regimes because they only deepen the inequalities between the Spanish under the common system and those under the special regime. Therefore, against this VOX what it proposes is a State at the service of the unit of Spain, in which there are no differences between regions or between Spaniards because of the place in which they reside or work. On the contrary, we believe that it is necessary to strengthen precisely the links between Spaniards and ensure equality between them, in order to ensure the prosperity and well-being of our homeland and to achieve a State in which there are no eighteen legal systems. Thank you very much. [[A number of Members: Congratulations!-Applause from the ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u12	Thank you very much, Mrs Cañizares. Mr García Adanero has the floor on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The truth is that I will intervene briefly because it must be said that both in the amendments to the whole and in the interventions that have taken place, in 95 or 96 % of the cases have not referred to the question of the State Convention with the Foral Community of Navarre, but of course, that everything is grouped together in the debate, because it has these things, because it is clear that the question of the modification in relation to the Foral Community of Navarre is very simple. As the Minister has said, four new taxes have been passed here in the General Courts, regardless of whether we like them, we do not like them, or what we vote on at the time, the debate on them has already taken place, and what it is necessary to do - in accordance with article 6 of the law of the convention, which is a law approved in the General Courts - is that these taxes should be placed in the Navarro legal system in order to carry them out, also as decided in the community, in agreement with the whole of Spain. That simple. But, of course, one may not like the Constitution, one may like one party, another may not, no one is obliged to like the Constitution, but, man, to comply with it we are bound, and what cannot be is that we accuse other parties of not complying with constitutional issues, but then we do not want to comply with what they say. The first additional provision is there; the Economic Convention is there, and the LORAFNA is there. Therefore, they are laws that have been passed in the General Courts by a majority and that obviously must now be complied with, and if anyone does not like them, as already exists in the Constitution the method of changing things of the same, that establishes the necessary mechanisms, if they have the votes to change those things, but if not, they have to be complied with. And of course, to enter here now into the debate of privileges, etc.... At least today we have taken a step, it has already been recognized that the convention is not inconclusive, that it can be applied. We are not debating here today the contribution of the Foral Community of Navarre, that debate is not taking place. Therefore, it is a fairly simple debate, we are only talking about four taxes that go to law - in this case to the legal order of the Foral Community - and, therefore, we are not talking about the contribution, already talked about at the time. This must be done with a single reading or not, is that it is an agreement between governments, as has been explained, but it is what is laid down by the law itself approved by the Congress of Deputies, the General Courts at the time, and it is what is laid down in the Constitution itself. It's what sets us off, and what's being done is that. If it's not that complicated, we're talking about four taxes, how it's going to be done in the Navarra Foral Community, because then management depends on each community. But we are not in that debate either. It is that here we talk about the autonomous communities and the competencies they have, but then each community manages as it pleases, and that's why governments change and that's why some of us aspire to govern and others are ruling, because not everyone rules the same; having the same tools, then one can manage in a totally different way than the other, but that will be another step. Now we are not deciding how each community is governed; that will be decided in May in some communities, as I live in, in the Foral Community of Navarra, in others not. Then you will decide how to govern and how to manage the resources you have, but this is another tool and here you can vote differently. Although the debate has been combined, one thing is the quota, the other is the tax agreement in the Basque Autonomous Community and the other is the tax in accordance with the Navarra Convention. I am not going to give any ideas, but we can disagree with the quota and we can agree that, both in the Basque Autonomous Community and in the Foral Community of Navarre, in accordance with the Constitution, its statutes and the laws governing both the concert and the convention, we are going to say how those taxes that were adopted in the Congress of Deputies - even if we were against them - are going to be included and how they are going to be carried out. There is no need for a joint vote; the whole is the debate which, from my point of view, is wrong, yes, because in the end, as I say, 99% of the time is spoken about the Basque quota and how that quota is calculated. In that debate, of course, I will not enter. [[Rumors]] When we talked about Navarra's contribution we already made the debate, presented the corresponding initiatives and, in the end, the Congress decided to support it by a very large majority. Therefore, I believe that as far as our outside community is concerned, a normal procedure is being taken. She has perfectly explained to the minister what it consisted of, the points of connection, etc. It is much more technical than political and, in that sense, we will logically give you the approval, because we agree, as was also agreed by the Parliament of Navarre unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Mrs Aizpurua Arzallus has the floor for the Euskal Herria Bildu Parliamentary Group. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u15	Egun on. Good morning. Today we will discuss and approve the updating and modification of the limited fiscal and economic instruments with which we have Basques and Basques: the Navarro Convention and the Basque Economic Concert, and also the method for calculating the quota. Today, reactionary and centralist forces, such as VOX and Citizens, have once again delighted us with a few attacks on our funding systems, the result, first of all, of their manifest ignorance of them and, secondly, of their decentralizing desire, which seeks nothing but to standardise the State and to put an end to our powers. They speak of privileges, of scams, of living on a hat, of chanchullos and other sandwiches that you are releasing and that only show that you have no idea what you are saying or, if you have it, do it out of wickedness and hatred of Basque citizenship. Do you really know what the concert and the convention mean economically? That we raised... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u17	What they mean, in fact, is that we collect part of our taxes - only part of it - and invest them in policies and services that depend on our competences. Meanwhile, we continue to pay theirs, those services that Spain offers us, so 'necessary and dear' for Basque citizenship, such as the Royal House, the Army or the Civil Guard. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the right, the chollo is yours, for, if for Basques and Basques, we will not pay a euro for the monarchy or the Spanish Army. Both institutions have the worst assessment of all and, as you will understand, do not offer any service that Basque citizens want or need. We continue to pay because the concert and the convention oblige us to do so. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon, addressing the seats of the Socialist Parliamentary Group: These are their partners.- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u18	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u19	Moreover, the supposed privilege of the concert should be only when they come well given, because, when the collection goes well, we have funds, yes, but what happens when it goes wrong? No one rescues us, no one finances us, no one keeps us afloat, as happens in other communities. We do not resort to the Papa State to rescue us, as you do; and, in truth, seeing the disastrous management in the few places where you govern, it is fortunate that you do not have an agreement like ours!, because they would say each and every one of the places where you reached power. Therefore, yes, they are mechanisms that bring us advantages, but also risks, great risks. As for the content, I would like to stand on one of the taxes that we consider most important in this update of the convention and the concert, which is the tax on big fortunes. It may seem to some of you a novelty, but this tax already existed ten years ago; it was launched in the Gipuzkoa Diputation under the government of Euskal Herria Bildu. It was a tax that yielded very good results and charged the richest 1% of the territory; a tax agreed and approved with the support of the Socialist Party. But when the PNV came to the parliament it eliminated the tax, also with the support of the Socialist Party. It has taken ten years for you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, from Madrid - of course - and with a temporary and very limited scope, to once again accept the need to tax the wealth of the elites, that they bring what they must according to their possibilities. Now the application of the tax to the great fortunes will again be in the hands of the Basque institutions, although, once again, we do not know whether it will finally be applied by the reluctance of the PNV to do so. Some defend to manage this tax in order to prevent its application, we defend to manage it but also to apply it. And what will you do this time, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE? Which side are you going to put them on? As far as the quota is concerned, although we will approve its renewal, we must point out a number of issues in the face of predictable speeches, highlighting the great agreement reached. The law of the quota is a five-year law that was to be renewed this year and its renewal will be carried out in exactly the same terms as it has been maintained so far. That being the case, I wonder where the negotiation and the 'great' agreement is. We imagine that it will have been easy for the Spanish Government to say yes to an agreement to renew the quota, when it was actually playing and maintaining the same formula as hitherto, clearly beneficial for the State but not for Basque citizenship, however much the opposite is said here. The current quota, which has been set at 6.24% for decades, continues to assume that Basques and Basques contribute more than our share of GDP and population; millions more than, as much solidarity as we have, we should not take on board. We do not say that, as various members of the Basque Government have said. Therefore, those who have negotiated this agreement could be said to have left in some way, giving up negotiations in order to achieve a better agreement and agreeing to continue with the current formula, that is, to continue paying more than we should. Today, with our reservations, we will support these changes, because it seems to us positive that our outside institutions can count on our fiscal figures, but we want to remember that continuing to negotiate and agree infinitely on taxes or competences is not a solution for our country. We aspire to full fiscal sovereignty, and economic sovereignty as well. Although they are good instruments of self-government, the convention and the concert are also a brake on moving towards our sovereignty. The fact of having to continue, more than forty years later, negotiating the transfer of powers or the conclusion of new taxes demonstrates the maintenance of the relationship of dependence to which this State continues to subject Basque citizenship. We believe that it is time to build a new relationship of equal to equal, a relationship of respect and not of imposition that illuminates a new reality and that gives us the full capacity to decide and manage all social, economic, cultural and linguistic aspects. Moreover, we do not want all this against anyone, we do not want it against any people or society, but simply in favour of our own. Eskerrik asko. [[Mr Espinosa de los Monteros de Simon: What a shame!-Applause.- Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u20	Thank you very much, Mrs. Aizpurua. For the Basque Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sagastizabal Unzetabarrenetxea has the floor. [[EAJ-PNV]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u21	Madam President, Minister, according to on. I would like to welcome the representatives of the Basque Government, the outlaws and the Government of Navarre who are here today among us. Ongi etorri. Today is a key day for Ugalde, the south of our country, because we will approve the amendment of the law approving the Economic Concert, the five-year law of the quota and the amendment of the law approving the Navarro Convention, thus ratifying the agreement of the joint commission of the concert and the negotiating commission of the Navarro Convention to adapt both instruments to the legislative changes made in the tax law of the State. In the case of Navarre, the special tax on plastic packaging, the tax on big fortunes and the reform of the tax on fluorinated gases will be incorporated into the convention. In the case of the Autonomous Community of the Vasco Country, the agreements are in two areas. In the tax field, the concert is adapted to changes in the tax on fluorinated gases and three new figures are concluded: the special tax on plastic packaging, the tax on waste deposits and the tax on big fortunes; the latter, moreover, with regulatory capacity, so it will be the outlaws themselves who have to regulate it. In the financial field, the new quota methodology for the five-year period 2022-2026 is approved, the main feature of which is that it is continuous compared with the existing quota in so far as practically all the parameters that influence its determination, including the 6.24 % imputation rate, are maintained. They are therefore agreements which normalise and regularise tax and financial relations between the State and the Basque Autonomous Community and the Foral Community of Navarre, allowing economic certainty, financial stability and legal certainty to all institutions at a very particular time of uncertainty over the war in Ukraine. Therefore, we are faced with a convention and a concert that adapt to the new realities and the various socio-economic situations. Faced with the constant unfair appeals that some political groups make regarding the convention and the concert, and which demonstrate their ignorance and little rigour in their criticism, I will insist on two aspects that they always forget. One, the concert or convention system is covered by the first additional provision of the Spanish Constitution and its development is carried out through two organic laws: the Gernika Statute of Autonomy and the Organic Law on Reintegration and Improvement of the Navarra Foral Regime. Two, its legitimacy and validity have been repeatedly endorsed by the European Union on the basis that each autonomous community has institutional, regulatory and economic autonomy and, therefore, the financial consequences would not be offset by aid or subsidies from the State in which that community is integrated, so that if there are difficulties or deficits for measures taken, they cannot be solved by State rescues, thus guaranteeing Community principles and freedoms, including the principles of subsidiarity and solidarity. Today, as already happened in 2017, we hear the same criticisms interested from certain political groups, categorizing the concert, the quota and the convention as privileges, grievances, attacks on equality, insolidarians and opaque, intentionally forgetting what I have just commented. Today I am not going to clarify these manifestations, we already did it in 2017; I am not going to repeat myself in front of those who do not want to understand this system and, therefore, do not understand the essence contemplated in the block of constitutionality that make up the Constitution, the Statute of Gernika and the naval improvement. Convention and concert mean pact, knowing how to reach agreements between different realities; a bilateral pact, a pact that normalizes the institutional relationship. This is not baladí, more if it is at a time when disagreements, confrontations, disqualifications and grievances lie in political debate, hindering any agreement. It is an agreement that allows for the management of plurality and diversity; a complex agreement on the fixing of the quota, yes, but based on technical and transparent criteria; an agreement in which the State defends both the general interest and that of the other regions of the State. That is not what I say, as a judgment of the European Court of Justice says. It is an agreement that means solidarity, because we contribute to all the burdens of the State that does not take on each autonomous community, through quotas or through contributions; and we contribute to the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, and we also do so above the ratio of population and wealth, 6.24% to 5.93 %. It also means unilateral risk, since we assume the risk of a lower collection for whatever reasons - a bad economic situation, normative decisions,...-; whatever it is, we must continue to pay the quota, regardless of the evolution of our collection in each year, so that, if we do not have enough revenue, or we reduce expenditure or go to deficits to finance the budgetary needs of the Basque administrations, but we cannot go to debt relief or other mechanisms envisaged for the autonomous communities of the common system. Similarly, it means management capacity, both in tax collection and in expenditure management, because the benefits or damages resulting from good or bad tax management will be exclusively the responsibility of all our institutions and will have an impact exclusively on Basque society. In other words, we must collect taxes, manage efficiently and invest in policies and services within our competences; we therefore combine fiscal responsibility with spending capacity. It also means stability, keeping fiscal and financial powers up to date during the next five fiscal years at a time of uncertainty, yes, but also in the face of future centralizing air, threats from the far right or a hypothetical change of government. And it means respect for differentiated systems, because there are no communicative vessels between the different systems of State financing and, therefore, no responsibility for the problems of financing the autonomous communities of common system can be attributed to the system of concert or convention, nor can the problems that these autonomous communities may suffer be attributed exclusively to the autonomous financing itself, since these communities also depend on other factors and premises. Likewise, it means political coexistence, guarantee of well-being and social support, because it is a system that has the recognition and support of Basque and Navarra society. I said it in 2017 and I repeat it again today: a differential fact does not amount to any privilege and neither does the recognition of a difference amount to inequality. In the light of this, at least it is curious that some political group uses the argument of equality in article 14 of the Constitution to oppose the concert and convention, when it is precisely those who have the most radical, exclusive and reactionary discourse. A reflection. Is it really worth using the confrontation between territories, the confrontation between citizens, as a way of doing politics? Of course, it is not the way to make policy that we defend in our parliamentary group, but, unfortunately, today we have been able to see that there are those who will continue to use the argument of aggravation, although fortunately, it is not what the majority of this House thinks or what the Basques and Basques, the Navarras and the Navarras think. Because those of us who know firsthand what the convention, the concert and the quota mean, the pillars of our self-government, we know that they are key tools for the competitiveness and sustainability of the economy, which also enable us to have a system of social protection in health, education, housing, employment and care for the elderly, as well as policies of equality and diversity that have helped to improve social inclusion and reduce the inequality gap between the population. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u23	I'm on my way. I would like to express my gratitude to all the political groups that are going to support these three laws today and to the entire technical body that has worked to achieve this agreement, in particular to the Finance Adviser of the Basque Government, Mr Azpiazu; to the Finance Minister, Mrs Montero; and to the Members of the Finance Committee of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, Mrs Gonzalo de Zuazo, Mr Iruarrizaga and Mr Perona. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sagastizabal. For the Plural Parliamentary Group, I have the floor, first of all, Mr Rego Candamil.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u25	Thank you, Madam President. The BNG will support the three proposals of the convention, the concert and the quota, because it seems sensible to us, it seems to us common sense. Likewise, we are going to reject with absolute force the amendments to the whole of that ultra right that continues with its baton of Spain unique of regions and provinces, because what really bothers them is not even the existence of the convention and the concert, but the existence of peoples different from what they consider the Spanish people, of different nations, of nations like Galicia, that do not fit into their idea of that unique Spain. But, in the face of that position of the ultra right, the defence of peoples and nations like Galicia is becoming stronger and stronger, as well as the defence of their rights. In that regard, I believe that this debate also opens the general debate on the need to modify an autonomous financing system which, at least in the case of Galicia, is neither fair nor appropriate. We have to modify it in order to end the fiscal expoliation to which our country is subjected, yes, because, in the face of the so functional account of the state parties, both the PP and the PSOE, that we are a country that lives subsidized, that lives from the charity of Spain, the reality is very different. We live by our own work and our own effort. And, as it is already known that data kills account, the data are enlightening. The liquidation of the 2019 budgets certifies a negative balance for Galicia in its fiscal relations with the State of approximately €45 billion. The state raised 13 212 million in Galicia in that year, but it only returned 8650 million, that is, we lost almost a third of the taxes that we paid to the state, and that without counting the headquarters effect for which more than 4000 companies -4165 companies last year -, especially large companies operating in Galicia, pay their taxes in Madrid. I could give many examples because among them are the big electrics, like Endesa, that company that was public and that was privatized. It is now a subsidiary of the Italian public company Enel, but here it operates as a large private company with hydroelectric dams in our country,Galiza, with wind farms and with a thermal power station, and which pays the company tax in Madrid -329 million euros last year - where it has neither thermal power stations nor hydroelectric dams nor wind farms and therefore neither generates any negative environmental impact. I think that's an illuminating example. In any case, beyond that defence of a concert system, there are possible changes in the current model that would contribute to greater justice, taking into account, for example, criteria such as ageing or population dispersion, which greatly increase the services to be provided; increasing the percentage of IBI or IRPF divestiture to 90%; with the divestiture of corporate tax, or with the obligation that companies operating in Galicia tax in our country to advance also in a green taxation to fight against the climate emergency and, in any case, to do justice to the whole world, in this case with Galicia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Rego. For the same parliamentary group, Mr Baldoví Roda has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u27	Thank you very much, President. Let me start with two statements. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP, ladies and gentlemen of the PSOE, this is a real shame today and yet I will vote categorically and decisively not on the amendments of VOX and Citizens, of course. I'll explain myself. Remember those jokes where there was a Spanish, a French, an English and a German? Well, he moved them here. Do you know how they look like a Basque or Navarro deputy, of the Union of the Navarro People, of the PNV, of Bildu, of the PSOE, of the People's Party or of the United We Can? In which when the Navarro Convention, the Basque quota or the Basque Economic Concert all vote the same, and that honors them. Perfect, they defend the interests of their citizens, of their land, of their country. I would like the Valencian Members to defend their interests in the same spirit, but no. In addition, it complies with the first additional provision of the Constitution, which protects and respects the historical rights of the outlying territories; of some, because there are historical territories and territories - with almost five hundred years to go - to which we are not respected and do not even want to return our civil rights. And do you know what PP and PSOE look like as two drops of water? In that, when it comes to approving a new funding system that replaces the unjust system that has been expired for more than eight years, they inevitably always tell you the same thing: Now is not the time, there is not a suitable climate for it to be approved, does not want the PP, does not want the PSOE... Excuses, excuses, excuses, excuses. Can the procedure of the Navarro Convention and the Basque Economic Concert be approved in two days, with direct and single reading? Yeah. And in eight years, with PP governments with an absolute majority and PSOE, has not a coma been touched by the unacceptable, arbitrary and abusive system of expired funding that has been punishing five million Valencians for decades to have fewer resources and, therefore, fewer opportunities? Really? I'm just giving you two data. Average Spanish GDP, EUR 25 000; Valencian Community, EUR 22,000, 3000 below; Navarre, EUR 31 000 - we are 8000 below -; Basque Country, EUR 32 000. Valencians' debt: 54 billion; shipowners' debt: 3 billion; Basques' debt: 11.5 billion. Funding system, we're at 93%, 7 points below. We're a poor territory with poor funding, and this isn't fixed. Article 156 of the Constitution, which refers to financial autonomy, is not complied with. Do you believe that with 54 billion debt the Valencians have financial autonomy? If you believe that, let God come down and see him. Solutions we have given, we have given many, many. However, they never arrive: neither the transitional liquidation fund, nor the assumption of the illegitimate debt -40 billion - nor the approach to the financing system.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u28	Mr. Baldoví, you have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u29	I insist, I will vote convinced and determined against these amendments and all the demagogy that has been done here by VOX and Citizens, but, I insist, gentlemen of the PP and gentlemen of the PSOE, this has to end once and for all.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Baldoví. Mrs Garrido Gutiérrez has the floor for the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u31	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Minister, first of all, I would like to welcome the representatives of the Basque Government and the Navarro Government and also the representatives of the outlaws. Today we discuss a subject that always leads us to great confrontations. With regard to the speech of the right, in this case, of the lords of VOX and of Citizens, which is based basically on deep ignorance and ignorance, I just want to give an idea that has already been repeated here but on which we must emphasize. The Basque Economic Concert is also Constitution, lords of VOX and citizens. The Economic Concert, as you know, derives from the first additional provision of the Constitution, which protects and respects the historical rights of the foral territories and orders their general update in the Foral Regime; and, of course, the Economic Concert is perhaps the most genuine manifestation of those historical rights. With this very brief explanation, the debate on the right is so noisy that I think they are wrong when they attack and disqualify the special regime of Euskadi and Navarra, because I repeat that the Economic Concert and the Navarra Convention are part of the Constitution. They are an essential part of the constitutional pact and today their position and discourse are against the Constitution. It is a discourse of bad constitutionalists because, as the minister rightly said, one cannot be constitutionalist in rattos, one day yes and one day no. But what is most worrying is that his speech shows that they don't like Spain that we are, a plural Spain and a Spain of countries. That's the most serious part of your speech. With regard to the rules that we are debating today, on the one hand, there is the bill that sets the methodology, the marking of the quota in the next five years. As we all know, the quota is the contribution that Euskadi makes each year to the State's common coffers for competences not transferred to the autonomous government: certain infrastructures, airports, ports, external representation and defence. Nothing to decide and nothing to object about the instrument, the quota. Perhaps I would take this opportunity to call for greater transparency. I think it is important to have greater transparency regarding how this quota is calculated and the assessment of the services that the State is developing in Euskadi because, as we have already seen here, there are too many urban legends of the left and the right. Therefore, it is necessary to remove the quota from the offices, to remove it from the negotiations and from the partisan interests, and to be able to explain it to the citizenry in a clear way. I believe that with this work and with this effort the image of the Economic Concert and the convention would be strengthened both in Euskadi and Navarra as well as in the rest of the territory. On the other hand, the amendment of the convention and of the economic agreement so that we can, as we know, incorporate the changes that have been made in the state tax system that have to do with new taxes, namely the special tax on plastic packaging, the tax on landfilling waste, the tax on fluorinated greenhouse gases and the temporary solidarity tax on big fortunes. In this last tax I want to stop. This latest tax, the tax on big fortunes, along with other taxes, such as taxes on banks or energy companies, sets in motion in the State a tax reform that is finally moving towards a fairer and more progressive tax model, where those who have obtained extraordinary benefits - which are, as we know, for billions in these years of crisis - are required to be co-responsible with their country and to help sustain the public in our welfare state, as always and without gossip, the workers of this country. [[Applauds]] With regard to this road - which I hope will have more milestones, more route and more changes - and also taking advantage of the fact that representatives of the Basque Government are here, namely the Finance Minister, Mr Azpiazu, I would like to say that I am very concerned that Euskadi - having, as we know, his own instruments of self-government and that fiscal and tax autonomy - loses the tax justice train. I'm worried that we're a tail car and not the locomotive we pulled out of that new, fairer and more progressive taxation. We already know that the Basque Nationalist Party does not like the reform initiated in the Spanish state, it does not like the tax on energy, it does not like the tax on banking or the tax on big fortunes, and I refer to the facts. Through the amendments introduced by the Basque Nationalist Party, we have managed to reduce almost half of the revenue that will come from these taxes, leaving out, for example, business abroad or also revenue from the regulated market. The nationalist party has been particularly demanding, very stubborn to lower the tax on energy. They have been very generous with Iberdrola and Petronor. In the Senate they proposed an amendment to balance losses and profits, so Petronor didn't have to pay a hard one. [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u32	Excuse me, Mrs. Garrido. Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u33	He said that, through that amendment in the Senate, Petronor didn't have to pay anything. As regards the tax on the great fortunes in Euskadi, which is complementary, as we know, to the property tax, more of the same. It's going to apply for a single year and we'll see, I'm not sure. Meanwhile, Euskadi is 7 points away from the average tax pressure in European countries. I therefore hope that the fiscal reform announced by the nationalist party, with the support of the Basque Socialist Party, will not continue to keep us in that queue car of fiscal justice. It would be very sad, above all, to imagine, for the nationalists, that Spain must come to support with its taxes the Basque public services. [[Mr. Esteban Bravo: That's very good.]] The tax on banking and energy that will not be transferred, the tax that you have wanted to lower, will give us Basques and Basques, in about two years, 400 million. There is a reality in Euskadi: we have a very weak welfare state. Osakidetza has very poor health. We'll have mass demonstrations this weekend. Therefore, we need - and it has ended - everyone to tie their shoulder, also those who have obtained extraordinary, scandalous benefits in these years. We need to ensure quality public services for Basque citizens. That's what our own self-government is for. We need a much fairer and much more progressive tax reform. We do not want to be a tailcar of fiscal justice, we want to be a locomotive that pulls out of that fairer and more progressive fiscal justice. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Garrido. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, Mr. Elorriaga Pisarik has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u35	Thank you, President. I must admit that I rise to the rostrum with a singular satisfaction. Just over twenty years ago, I had the opportunity to sign, on behalf of the State, the agreement that brought the light of the Basque Economic Concert; an agreement that, in addition to modernizing the original standard of 1981, gave the transcendental step of giving it an indefinite character, shows unequivocally the permanent anchoring of the foral model in the Spanish constitutional model. I would like to start by pointing out - before I say hello, which I do not want to forget, to all the Basque and Navarra authorities that accompany us and, especially, to Don Pedro Azpiazu, a companion of these seats for many years - that my group will support the adoption of these three bills that update, as is required by the model of concert and convention, the regulations in force after the alterations experienced by the Spanish tax system. Nothing new, a measure often repeated and therefore a procedure which, periodically, is necessary to keep the outboard systems up to date. Let me, therefore, allow me, Mrs Montero, to turn a little further to what has been your responsibility in this and other matters. Leave your usual triumphalism for a moment, try to lower that challenging tone that you use in the confrontation with any parliamentary group and come down a bit to reality. I'm not so naive as to think you're going to listen to me, but it might be helpful if I did it with a party mate. This published a couple of days ago who was the head of the cabinet of a socialist economic vice president, who was responsible for economic policy in the federal executive of the Socialist Party, who was the minister of a socialist government. He said exactly this about his fiscal policy: Too many people are falling behind in Spain to not feel worried. At least that's what the data says. More than half of families do not arrive at the end of the month or do so with many difficulties and more than 60% come with more difficulty now than a year ago. The recent study on inequality of teachers Cantó and Ayala notes the worrying narrowing of the middle class and its transfer to the lower class as another proof of the growing social inequality in Spain. [[Applauds]] It is perceptible - Jordi Sevilla said, since I am talking about it - the loss of purchasing power of wages by growing less than prices. It causes this crisis to emerge, again, through a wage devaluation in real terms. These are the major problems affecting Spain today: predisposition and redistribution fail, and 58% of the citizens understand this, according to the CIS. The problem that most affects the Spaniards is unemployment and their economic situation. This is the result of your economic management, Mrs Montero. You have probably read it and you know it, but the problem is that the projects that we are discussing today bring us a sample of that terrible management of Spanish fiscal policy, because what they bring us here today, even if it is inevitable, although it necessarily derives from the rules that we have given ourselves, is an immense burden. And I'll explain it to you. First dip. You have encouraged the adoption of a second personal property tax, with an openly centralizing desire. It does so in the most clumsy way and with the sole objective of confronting the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party. He then realized that his harmonizing decision clashed head-on with the concert and the convention. Finally, in order not to confront his parliamentary, nationalist and independent allies, he concludes that his voracious collection does not reach the outside territories. It's fine; I'm glad; I don't want the tax anywhere, at least it's not there. But to exclude them from the consequences of their original decision, he now concludes the tax; he has no other remedy. But then we come to the most complete absurdity. Foral estates will now not have a personal property tax, but two, and they will be able to charge their own tax with another identical one that is superimposed on it, an unprecedented profit of legislative technique. And since the result is completely absurd, even if it is inevitable, we are already announced from the Basque Country and from Navarre that the tax is not going to apply there in the 2022 financial year, as it is going to be done in the rest of Spain. And he has already announced that it will not be done in 2023, simply because his decision was a whim and a complete folly. [[Applauds]] Second cod that brings us here today. You are pushing for the approval of two charges on the extraordinary benefits of banking and energy companies. As, according to his thesis, they are not tributes, they are not susceptible to being incorporated into the concert or the convention. Okay. But once again his parliamentary partners remind him of something that in law is often called the principle of irrelevance of the Iuris name, which is also sometimes called the principle of primacy of reality, which means a very simple thing: things are what they are and not what the parties say they are. What you call taxes, are real taxes, coerced benefits demanded without compensation, and as such should be treated. By their nature and their configuration, they should be concerted taxes of common rules, but as it is not possible, because according to you they are not taxes and they are not taxes, they cannot be arranged. All right. What's the solution? Okay, they don't agree, but they're off-limits, so the Basque Country will receive 6.24% of the estimated revenue for these figures in the coming years, about €400 or €450 million. All right, they'll take it out of the quota. For Navarra the same agreement is reached in the proportion of its GDP, 1.6, about 110 million, which will be deducted from the contribution. Both communities assume full responsibility for the definition and management of aid financed by these new taxes. Perfect. [[Rumors]] But the problem is that if the charges are not concluded, but the proportion of the outsourced holdings is given, why is it not done with the rest of the autonomous holdings? Because what you're saying with this deal... [[Rumors]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u37	... is that, on the one hand, expenditure is territorializable and, on the other hand, income is distributable according to GDP. That goes well, gentlemen of Esquerra Republicana, the same for Catalonia, Mr Baldoví, the same for Valencia, or the same for Madrid; it could be distributed to all. [[Applauds]] Therefore, allow me to end this issue now, and I will repeat one thing that has already been said many times and which should be highlighted. Look, precision and transparency are the best guarantee of the continuity of these institutions. With actions such as those that have developed in recent years, you, the Socialist majority and all the parliamentary partners who have supported you at this time, have done nothing but harm them. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Montesinos de Miguel: All right!-Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Elorriaga. For the Socialist Group, Mr Cerdán León has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u39	Thank you, President. Greetings to the representatives of the Basque Government who are with us today. The Convention and the Economic Concert have its constitutional support in the first additional provision of the Constitution - some of those who have spoken before me have mentioned it - and the bills we are debating today have followed the established procedures. In the case of Navarra there have been the following. On 28 December 2022, the negotiating committee met to agree on the amendment of the legal text of the economic agreement; the draft laws were then adopted by the Council of Ministers at its meeting on 31 January. These amending agreements have also been submitted for approval by the Parliament of Navarre, obtaining the unanimous support of the House in plenary session on 2 February. By unanimity, Mrs Arrimadas. Also the parliamentarian of Citizens, nothing more and nothing less than his secretary of national organization, voted in favour, Mrs Arrimadas. [[applause]] I will also say one thing in favour of your national deputy, and it is that he is one of the few who has not jumped off the boat; he has merit. Then I'll talk about your amendment. As regards the content of the amendment, it is a question of harmonising new taxes in the convention and in the concert. The first is a new tax that is incorporated into the convention and the Economic Concert, which entered into force on 1 January 2023 at state level, and is the tax on non-reusable packaging and plastics. The second is incorporated into a new eighth additional provision with regard to the temporary solidarity tax on large fortunes. The adoption of these laws, convention and concert, today implies the culmination of a long and constant work developed between administrations with institutional loyalty and constant dialogue. When some are filled with their mouths in the supposed defence of the Constitution, perhaps it is best to answer them with the facts. This is to defend Navarra and this is to defend the Constitution. Facts and not words. Defending and improving a constitutional tool such as the Navarra-State Economic Convention and the Euskadi-State Economic Concert is what the Government of Spain is doing. Ladies and gentlemen of Citizens, your amendment to the whole is drafted from ignorance and ignorance. I had doubts as to whether it was just that or bad faith, but it became clear to me after your intervention, Mrs Arrimadas, that it is both. It is ignorance, it is ignorance and bad faith, and it has become clear to me that 120 pages are many for you. [[Applauds]] The Government of Navarre is chaired by a socialist, who is President María Chivite, and it is the Government of Navarre who, together with the Government of Spain, determines the tax relations between Navarre and the State since the harmonization, and does not do so by any external agent, as they say in their amendment to the whole. And no, it's no privilege, it's quite the opposite of what you want to maintain. Because if we go to the second agreed tax, the tax on big fortunes, they express in the amendment to the whole their concern for the speed of implementation. You've heard well, you're worried about speed, because it's going to be done soon. What do you mean, that the tax is not applied in Navarre? That would be a privilege, Mrs. Arrimadas; not to apply it in Navarre would be a privilege for the great fortunes of Navarre. They also say it's an ideological tax, and they're right, but I think it's really what bothers them. Of course it is ideological, and it is political, Mrs Arrimadas; a policy very different from that of the right which you are supporting and have supported. Fiscal justice and social justice is ideology. Some of us defend the social majority and others only defend the privileges of a few powerful people, the good people, who would say Feijóo: banks, energy and big fortunes. [[Applauds]] A whole ideology summarized in one expression: good people. In front of that are our policies, and it is called social democracy, in front of the neoliberalism that you represent. Because destroying public health, as Ayuso is doing in Madrid, is ideology. Because putting a copayo of 150 euros to primary care, as Moreno Bonilla proposes in Andalusia, is ideology. Because the tijeretazo that Feijóo gave to healing in Galicia in 2022 is ideology, that ideology and the policy that the PP defends and that you, Mrs Arrimadas, support. Because things are what they are, it's true, it's what it looks like, it's what it is. And of course it's political and it's ideology what the Spanish government also does, governed by Pedro Sánchez: increasing the mir squares by 24% is ideology; increasing the 1 billion euros primary care is ideology; or approving, as approved on Tuesday, the largest budget item in the history of scholarships -2520 million euros-is ideology, 70% more than the PP. [[applause]] Of course it's ideology! And it's politics what we do in the PSOE, based on equal opportunities: politics useful to the majority. And for all those who, with their incendiary and unconstitutional discourse, seek only to destroy the channels of understanding that have taken a long time to achieve, it would be almost only indifference and rejection, but I do not resist telling them anything. By the way, Mrs. Cañizares Pacheco, I've seen the applause and hugs that you've been given when the surgery is over, and you're facing Macarena Olona. [[Mrs Cañizares Pacheco utters words that are not perceived]] Beware, for surely Mr. Evole will be behind you. [[Applauds]] Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, this Navarra-State Economic Convention and the Euskadi-State Economic Concert are the pure expression of respect between institutions and an example of coexistence, which you wish to destroy anyway. Thank you very much. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u40	Thank you very much, Mr Cerdán. [[Mrs. Arrimadas García calls for the floor]] Yes, Mrs. Arrimadas?
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u41	Madam President, for references by Socialist spokesman Santos Cerdán, under Rule 72...
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u42	I do not believe that there has been any offensive reference under the Article of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Arrimadas, it is part of the debate.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u43	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u44	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u45	We continue with the agenda item on the proposal for the House Plenary's avocation of the deliberation and final vote on the draft law on sustainable mobility. This proposal shall be put to the vote together with the other matters. We'll vote in three minutes. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin the voting. Take your seats, please. Direct and read-only processing of legislative initiatives. Vote on amendments to the draft law amending Law 28/1990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre, submitted by the Parliamentary Groups Citizens and VOX. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 60 against, 278.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u47	The amendments are therefore rejected. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 12/2002 OF 23 MAY, APPROVING THE ECONOMIC CONCIERT WITH THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITY OF THE VASCO COUNTRY. [[File number 121/000143]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u48	Vote on amendments to the draft law amending Law 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, submitted by the parliamentary groups Citizens and VOX. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 60 against, 278.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u49	The amendments are therefore rejected. - DRAFT LAW APPROVING THE METHODOLOGY FOR THE REPORTING OF THE COUNTRY'S COUNTRY FOR THE YEAR 2022-2026. [[File number 121/000144]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u50	Vote on amendments to the entire bill approving the methodology for marking the Basque Country quota for the five-year period 2022-2026, submitted by the parliamentary groups Citizens and VOX. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 338 votes in favour, 60 against, 278.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u51	The amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that from eleven and five to eleven and forty, that is, for half an hour, the non-legislative proposals, the motions, the overall vote on the draft laws that are dealt with by the single reading procedure and the motion for a ruling by the plenary of the House on the deliberation and final vote on the Sustainable Mobility Bill will be able to be voted on by telematically. We will therefore suspend the session for forty-five minutes. The vote on these points will take place once the vote has been resumed. The meeting was suspended until 11 a.m. and 45 a.m. Thank you very much. [[Pause]] The meeting was suspended at 11 a.m. The meeting was resumed at 11 a.m. and 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, we have resumed the sitting. Take your seats. We begin with the votes. No-law propositions. No bill by the Plural Parliamentary Group on the granting of permits for the prevention of suicide. We are voting in the terms of the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal, the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván, the Citizens Parliamentary Group and the Basque Parliamentary Group. [[EAJ-PNV]] The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes cast; 340 in favour.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u54	Accordingly, the non-law proposal was unanimously adopted. [[Applauds]] - PROPOSAL NOT FOR THE LAW OF THE CITIZEN PARLIAMENTARY GROUP ON GUARANTEING EQUALITY IN ACCESS TO CANCER TREATMENTS IN ALL NATIONAL TERRITORY. [[File number 162/00146]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u55	No bill by the Citizens' Parliamentary Group on ensuring equal access to cancer treatments throughout the national territory. The vote was taken in accordance with the compromise amendment tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, the Confederal Parliamentary Group of the United Nations Podemos-En Comú Podemos-Galicia in Communal and the Citizens' Parliamentary Group. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 307 against, 14 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u56	Accordingly, the non-legislative proposal was approved. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u57	Motions resulting from urgent appeals. Motion for an urgent appeal by the Republican Parliamentary Group on the need to adopt the necessary legislative amendments to increase compensation for wrongful dismissal in order to achieve a real redress of the worker concerned and a deterrent effect. It shall be put to the vote on its terms. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 55 against, 222 abstentions, 63.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u58	The motion was therefore rejected. - Motion for an urgent interpellation of the People's Parliamentary Group at the meeting on the development of the Government's action in the field of the Ministry of Justice, particularly with regard to the administration of justice's lettering, as well as on the proposal and implementation of the Government's policy for the development of the legal order in matters of criminal, civil, commercial and procedural law. [[File number 173/000195]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u59	Motion following urgent inquiry by the People's Parliamentary Group in Congress, on the development of the Government's action in the field of the Ministry of Justice, in particular with regard to the strike of lawyers of the Administration of Justice, as well as on the proposal and implementation of the Government's policy for the development of the legal system in the field of criminal, civil, commercial and procedural law. Voting by points. Point 1. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 178 against, 151 abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u60	Point 1 was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] Point 2. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 169 against, 152 abstentions, 19.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u61	Item 2 was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] Point 3. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 116 against, 150 abstentions, 74.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u62	Point 3 is therefore rejected. Point 4. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 314 against, 8 abstentions, 18.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u63	Item 4 was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] Point 5. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 315 against, 8 abstentions, 17.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u64	Item 5 was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] Point 6. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 303 against, 8 abstentions, 29.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u65	Item 6 was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]] And point 7. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 340 votes in favour, 154 against, 150 abstentions, 36.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u66	Item 7 was therefore adopted. [[Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u67	Direct and read-only processing of legislative initiatives. Overall vote on the text of the draft law amending Law 28/1990 of 26 December approving the Economic Convention between the State and the Foral Community of Navarre, for one reading, taking into account the technical corrections distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 273 against, 59 abstentions, 4.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u68	It was therefore adopted. - DRAFT LAW AMENDING LAW 12/2002 OF 23 MAY, APPROVING THE ECONOMIC CONCIERT WITH THE AUTOMOUS COMMUNITY OF THE VASCO COUNTRY. [[File number 121/000143]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u69	Overall vote on the text of the bill amending Act No. 12/2002 of 23 May approving the Economic Concert with the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, for single reading, taking into account the technical corrections distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 273 against, 60 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u70	It was therefore adopted. - DRAFT LAW APPROVING THE METHODOLOGY FOR REPORTING THE COUPLE OF THE VASCO COUNTRY FOR THE YEAR 2022-2026, FOR TREATMENT IN SINGLE READING. [[File number 121/000144]]
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u71	Overall vote on the text of the bill approving the methodology for marking the Basque Country quota for the five-year period 2022-2026, for processing in one reading, taking into account the technical corrections distributed. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 336 votes in favour, 273 against, 60 abstentions, 3.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u72	It was therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u73	Initiation of legislative initiatives. Voting of the request for the plenary of the House to act on the deliberation and final vote on the draft law on sustainable mobility, submitted by the Plural Parliamentary Group, Mr Errejón Galván. The vote will begin. [[Pause]] The voting was as follows: 339 votes in favour, 339.
ParlaMint-ES_2023-02-23-CD230223.u74	Consequently, the Advocate-General was approved in plenary. Thank you all very much. The meeting rose. It was 12 noon.
