ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session! Today we continue with the next item of our weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SOCIAL HELP LAW. Importer of the Council of Ministers. He was adopted in the first vote on 6 November 2015. A report came in from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Mr. Ademov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u2	Thank you. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am making a procedural proposal in this House to allow Mrs. Elena Kremenlieva to be admitted to the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u3	We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 137 MPs: 130 against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. We're also waiting for Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Kalfin. We're listening, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u4	Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Assistance Act, No 502-01-65, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 August 2015. The Social Assistance Act was amended and supplemented by the Social Assistance Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u5	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Import Act supported by the Commission. Vote 126 MPs: 125, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u6	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Stefan Kenov, made in accordance with Article 1. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 2 the words "society and social services" shall be deleted; (b) c. 4 after the word "supplied', "supplied' shall provide methodical support in providing them'; (c) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. collect, process, systematise, store and use information in the field of functional competence under law in an integrated information system; (d) c. 6 after the word "type" a comma is placed and the location is added. 2. In para. 2 is added after the figure? 2 is added and 10 is added, and after the words? Directions?? Social assistance? is added and regional social assistance??????????????.????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? 3. The creation of para. 4. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall issue a regulation on the content and functioning of the integrated information system under para. 1, t. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u7	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 1 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 124 MPs: 111, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u8	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Galya Zaharieva, Dimitar Gechev, Claudia Gancheva, Ralitsa Todorova, Ruslan Toshev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the 1. In para. 1 the words "supplied' are replaced by "supplied'. 2. In para. 4 the word "mail" is replaced by "application."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u9	Statements? I won't. We vote § 2. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u10	Under § 3 there is a proposal from the MP Grozdan Karadzhov: In § 3 concerning art. 16 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the text is added: The social services are provided on the basis of an individual assessment of the needs and according to the desire and personal choice of the persons. Accommodation of persons in specialised institutions or resident services against their will and preferences shall not be permitted for specific accommodation. 2. Alinei 3, 4 and 5 are amended as follows: ,(3) The direction of the persons for the use of social services shall be carried out by the Directorate-General for Social Assistance and the competence of the respective Directorate for Social Assistance shall not be determined by the presence of the current address of the persons, but it is sufficient that the Directorate shall be applied in writing for this by the person himself or by an authority entrusted with such functions under law. (4) Accommodation of a person in a social service of a resident type or specialized institution shall be carried out by the court. Until the judgment of the Court of Justice, the Directorate of Social Assistance shall carry out temporary accommodation in administrative order. (5) The acts of the Director of the Social Assistance Directorate shall be issued and appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Article 16 is amended as follows: Art. 16. (1) Social services shall be activities in support of persons for social inclusion and independent lifestyles based on social work and provided in the community and in specialised institutions. (2) Social services in specialized institutions shall be provided only after exhaustion of the opportunities for the provision of social services in the community. (3) Accommodation of children, persons with permanent disabilities and persons placed under detention in specialized institutions may not be for a period of more than three years. (4) The term under para. 3 may be extended subject to the conditions of art. 16a and 16b only if: 1. for children there is no possibility to be reintegrated into the family, adopted, accommodated in a family of relatives or relatives or in a foster family or in a social service in the community of resident type under the order of the Child Protection Act; 2. there is no possibility for persons with permanent disabilities and persons with disabilities to care in a home environment and social accommodation in the community of resident type. (5) Social services shall be provided following an individual assessment of support needs and on the basis of an individual support plan developed by a multidisciplinary team whose composition and working methods shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. (6) The criteria for carrying out an individual assessment of the needs of the persons for support, the main content of the individual support plan, the time limits for updating and reviewing the assessment and the plan shall be determined by the rules for implementing the law. (7) The types of social services in the community and specialized institutions shall be determined by the rules for implementing the law. (8) Depending on the method of financing social services are: 1. delegated by the State activities when financed by the State budget; 2. local activities when financed by municipal budgets; 3. activities financed from other sources.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u11	Statements? Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to withdraw my proposals under § 3 to art. 16, since the additional texts imported by the colleague Angelova were made after further coordination and in fact the editing that has been achieved is much better. So I support the new text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u13	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. What has been made and unsupported has just been withdrawn by Mr. Karadjov. I shall put to the vote § 3 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 122 MPs: 114, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Mr. Karadjov, I see that the next paragraph has your proposal. If you intend to withdraw it, let's not waste time reading it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u14	No, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u15	Mr. Karadjov withdraws the proposal and under § 4, Mr. Ademov, you will not report it. The following paragraph supports the proposed proposal. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u16	By § 4, Mr. Karadjov has just withdrawn his proposal. Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 4: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16a, para. 3 New sentences are created second to third: The desire for accommodation in a specialized institution or social service in the community of resident type is expressed in a written declaration. The declaration shall be entered in a register with the Department of Social Assistance and shall be deemed to be illegal in the current address of the person who is the specialized institution or social service in the community of resident type, in the absence of entry. 2. A new article shall be created. 16e with the following text: Art. 16e. Accommodation of a person who is placed under a restriction in a specialised institution or social service in the community of a resident type shall also be terminated without the consent of his trustee. The trustee and the Social Assistance Directorate shall be notified of the termination at the current address of the person who is accommodated. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 16a, 16b, 16c and 16d: Art. 16a. (1) The social services shall be provided according to the desire and personal choice of the persons and in accordance with art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, 3, 4 and 5. (2) Under the conditions of para. 1 social services for children are provided according to the best interests of the child and according to the desire of the child and the parents, guardian or guardian, or to those who take care of the child in accordance with the Child Protection Act. (3) Under the conditions of para. 1 the social services for adults placed under a ban shall be provided in accordance with the wishes of the person and the opinion of his guardian or guardian, and in the event of a conflict leading is the desire of the person in need of a social service. (4) The use of social services by adults placed under an intercession shall be terminated in accordance with para. 3. (5) Under the conditions of para. 1 the social services in the community of resident type and in specialized institutions for adults placed under full limitation shall be provided according to the order of art. 16b, 16c and 16d. Art. 16b. (1) Accommodation in specialised institutions and in social services in the community of resident type of adults placed under full detention shall be carried out by the regional court at the current address of the person. The Social Assistance Directorate at the current address of the person may only carry out temporary administrative accommodation in case until the court is given no other opportunity to care for the person. (2) The request for accommodation under para. 1 before the regional court at the current address of the person shall be made by the Social Assistance Directorate on the basis of a written request of the person and the opinion of the guardian. (3) To the request under para. 2 shall apply: 1. a report which also contains an opinion on the possibilities for taking care of the person in the home environment; 2. the assessment and the plan under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 5; 3. a reference to the existing appropriate social services in the community and specialized institutions within the field and vacant places. (4) Temporary accommodation in specialized institutions and in social services in the community of resident type of adults placed under full suspension shall be carried out by order of the Director of the Social Assistance Directorate at the current address of the person on the basis of a written request of the person and the opinion of the guardian. (5) Within one month of the issue of the order under para. 4 Directorate of Social Assistance (SCI) makes a request to the Regional Court at the current address of the person. (6) The acts of the Director of the Social Assistance Directorate shall be issued and appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. Art. 16c. (1) Requests for accommodation of a person placed under full detention in a specialised institution and social service in the community of resident type shall be brought to the regional court at the current address of the person. (2) In the proceedings under para. 1 the court may collect evidence on its own initiative and must examine the will of the person whose accommodation is requested, including through the participation of persons of interest. (3) The Court shall immediately examine the request in open session with the participation of the Social Assistance Directorate, the person and his guardian. (4) In the event that the person whose accommodation is requested may not participate personally in the meeting under para. 3, it takes place outside the courthouse. (5) The Court shall rule within one month by a decision which shall be declared to the parties and shall be executed without delay. (6) Upon request for accommodation in a specialised institution, the court may respect it only if no care for the person in a home environment or social service within the community of resident type has been established within the proceedings. (7) In the decision under para. 5 specify the period of accommodation which, upon accommodation in a specialized institution, cannot be longer than the period under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3. (8) The decision shall be subject to appeal before the district court within 7 days. In the event of a complaint or protest, the court shall set the case within a period of not more than 7 days. The district court shall rule by a decision which shall be final. Art. 16 years old. (1) Accommodation of a person placed under full suspension in a specialized institution and social service in the community of resident type shall be terminated in accordance with art. Art. 16b. 16c of the Regional Court at the request of the Directorate of Social Assistance on the basis of a written request of the person and the opinion of the guardian. (2) Until the judgment of the court the termination of the accommodation shall be carried out on a temporary basis by order of the Director of the Social Assistance Directorate on the basis of a written request of the person and the opinion of the guardian. (3) Alinei 1 and 2 shall not apply upon expiry of the specified period under art. 16c, para. 7 and death on the face. (4) Accommodation by a specialized institution in social service in the community of resident type before the expiry of the specified term under art. 16c, para. 7 shall be carried out in accordance with Article 7. Art. 16b. 16c. (5) Extension of the period of accommodation in a specialized institution shall be carried out in accordance with art. Art. 16b. 16c, if there are grounds under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4. (6) Extension of the period of social accommodation in the community of resident type shall be carried out in accordance with art. Art. 16b. 16c. (7) The decision of the district court may be appealed before the district court. The appeal doesn't stop the execution. The decision of the district court shall be final and shall not be subject to a cassation appeal. (8) The decision to terminate accommodation shall be implemented in administrative order.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u17	Statements? There are no speeches. The proposal of the MP Grozdan Karadzhov has been withdrawn. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MPs Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 124 MPs: 21, against 28, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 4 in the version of the Commission, in accordance with its report. We are voting § 4 on the Commission report. Vote 119 MPs: 108, no objection, abstention 11. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u18	No proposals have been made under paragraphs 5 and 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5 and § 6 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u19	For your speech please welcome, the People's Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Paragraph 5 and, more specifically, Paragraph 5. 1 of art. 17 I would like to make an adjustment to the text because, colleagues, so proposed the text enters a coliseum. To make it clear what I mean, I will have to read you the text briefly to see for yourself what I say. In para. 1 is written down that social services are provided against payment of fees by the persons who use them. And now pay attention:.. or...... or....................................................................................... When it comes to paying a fee, this means that the fee, colleagues, should only cover the costs incurred under the relevant type of service. However, when we bring in the opportunity to negotiate, we are already going in two different directions here. I want to open the clamp that it is still about social services, and social services, a generally accepted rule is that they are used by people who are not in color. And here comes the question: first, with whom will these people who benefit and need to use these services agree? What criteria will they agree on? In what direction will the negotiation be in the direction of making some additional income, not to say profit, from the relevant social service or in the direction, say, in a privileged situation, which already leads to discrimination on social status, as it is written in the Law on Discrimination? In fact, the words or by negotiation, I propose that they drop out because they already make another sense of art. 17, para. 1. Fees are pre-defined, pre-defined and there is no way for us to put different entities in a position to negotiate, even more unknown to whom. Who are these people going to negotiate with the Social Assistance Agency or with the Social Assistance Directorates, which, let us say, have no such delegated rights to negotiate at all? That is, instead of being a good text, with these two words it becomes a non-working text, so I ask you to support my proposal so that it can truly be para. 1 to be a working subparagraph, not to create conditions for privileges for certain groups that use these services to agree, because this negotiation, say, in certain cases can also go in the direction of free use of such services and other such to pay fees. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I am making an editorial proposal in para. 1 of art. 17 of Paragraph 5 in the report, the words "or by negotiation' shall be dropped in the first sentence. Thank you. I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u21	At least I understand. Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Bajraktarov, social services in the way of funding are those delegated by the state activities, those financed by municipal budgets and those financed by the consumers themselves. When it comes to state delegated activity, then there is a tariff that is issued by the Council of Ministers when it comes to financing from municipal budgets, then it is about fees, when financing is at the expense of consumers naturally, that then there should be a negotiation between the one providing the social service and the one using, respectively, the user of the social service and therefore this text is written in this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u23	Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ademov, I hope you remember well what you said, because it... I, by the way, thank you for this clarification, because it highlights the correctness of my proposal. What did you say?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u25	Not me, the law says so.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u26	What did you say because you're talking here, from this tribune. Pay attention, colleagues: the activities are financed by the consumer of social services. I repeat: the activities are financed by the consumer of a social service. And now I ask you, Mr. Ademov: will the consumer negotiate with himself? Will the consumer negotiate with himself once he finances this activity? You do realize what kind of collision we're putting this in. Second thing. Now I will tell you the other thing, what Mr. Ademov did not tell you: a large part of these activities, colleagues who, for example, in 2015 amounted to funding about 30 million. BGN is financed by donor organizations. In fact, when it comes to donation, you cannot negotiate because there is the will of the donor. We risk with this negotiating text breaking the will of the donor and he at some point asking for his donation to be terminated because of a violation of his will. And he donates funds not to make profits and negotiate, but to go to the designated social service and social activity. Thank you, Mr. Ademov, for explaining it and showing exactly what kind of a collision this is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov in § 5, para. 1 in the first sentence, the expression "or by negotiation' shall fall. Please vote. They voted 115 MPs: 19 against 42, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 5 and 6, which are supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 121 MPs: 111, against 2, abstention 8. Paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u28	According to § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Grozdan Karadzhov: The following amendments shall be made in § 7: 1. point 2 is amended as follows: The mayor of the municipality may entrust the management of the social services delegated by the State activities and local activities to the persons under art. 18, para. 2 and 3 by competition or by negotiation with a single candidate. The mayor of the municipality may, when announcing a competition for the award of social services delegated by the State activities and local activities, include in the contest and require the supplier to provide the necessary material basis for the provision of the service to be awarded. 2. In point (a), point (a) (a) Paragraph 8 is amended as follows: The competition by the order of para. 3 may also be organised before completing the procedure for the disclosure of the social service and the contract with the successful candidate shall enter into force after the completion of the procedure and the provision of the necessary funding. b) Alinea 9 to fall. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: ,(1) The mayor of the municipality manages the social services in the territory of the municipality concerned, which are delegated by the State activities and local activities, shall be responsible for meeting the criteria and standards for the provision of social services and shall be the employer of the managers of those services, except for the cases of the award of the management under para. 3. 2. In para. 3 after the words.... is added as..................................................................................... is added 3. They're creating an al. 7, 8, 9 and 10: , ((7) In the award of the management of social services under para. 3 The mayor of the municipality is obliged to provide the supplier with the full amount of the funds constituting the financial standard for the relevant activities delegated by the State within the time limits within which the grant of subsidies from the state budget takes place. (8) The mayor of the municipality shall exercise control over the appropriate spending of the funds provided under para. 7 and in the case of detected infringements terminate the award under para. 3. (9) Before the expiry of the period for which the management of the social service under para. 3, The mayor of the municipality conducts a new competition or arranges the provision of the service by the municipality, preventing interruption in the provision of the service. (10) Upon opening of a social service delegated by the State activity, the mayor of the municipality shall ensure that it is provided from the date of the opening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u29	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We from the Patriotic Front will support the proposal made by colleague Grozdan Karadzhov. Honourable Members, this is precisely the proposal that enables the initiative of private donors to produce and provide social services. As I told you, the information indicates that private donors only in 2015 donated over 30 million. lv. Here, however, the text of the person who is asking me to draw attention to you is dangerous that it will first stop practically the desire of such people to continue to donate and introduce innovations in terms of social services, and secondly, that there is a great risk of monopolising this activity from the point of view that these people who have already invested, donated must provide these donations to municipalities in order to be able to continue this activity, which is practically not for the benefit of these municipalities as well. I am pleased that in the preliminary discussions, many of the colleagues from the Labour Commission who worked in municipalities understood this. I hope that today we will show some sense and accept the text proposed by Mr. Grozdan Karadjov, because it is consistent with many of the municipalities. They also support this text. The only thing I will perhaps do as an addition is finally in the text of Grozdan Karadzhov to complement the activities of the municipalities. I'm stating in para. 3 after the word supposed to supplement the state-sponsored activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u31	Mr. Bayraktarov, Mr. Karadzhov's proposal is not supported. Editorial proposals in the Chamber must be made to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u32	In that case, we will support the text proposed by Grozdan Karadjov because this is the good text. He is consulted with a large part of the municipalities in Bulgaria. They confirm that this is the correct wording so that these activities can continue to work and not become a monopoly. The choice, of course, is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u33	Colleagues, since there are consultations on this paragraph at the moment, I am making a procedural proposal to move on to the next paragraph, then we will return and continue the debate on § 7. In connection with Mr. Karadjov's proposal, there is a consultation with the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Kalfin. I am making the formal procedural proposal to postpone the debate, to proceed with the next paragraph and, when colleagues are ready, to return to § 7. Please vote. Vote 126 MPs: 117 against 6, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u34	Paragraph 8? a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... They're creating themselves. 18b, 18c, Art. 18b. (1) For entry in the register under art. 18, para. 2 persons under art. 18, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 shall submit to the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance an application and a description of the social service on models approved by the Agency and shall indicate a unique identification code of the person when he is a trader and persons who are not registered in the Commercial Register to the Registry Agency shall apply an original or certified copy of an actual status or registration certificate issued by the competent court not earlier than three months from the date of submission of the application and a certified copy of an identification card under the BULSTAT registry. (2) The persons referred to in art. 18, para. 1, t. 4 apply to the application under para. 1 official translation of documents certifying registration under their national law. (3) The persons referred to in art. 18, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 which have a licence under art. 18, para. 3 shall be entered in the register referred to in Article 3. 18, para. 2 professionally within 5 days after the granting by the State Agency for Child Protection of the issued licence. (4) When applying for registration of a new social service, registered social service providers shall indicate a single identification code or apply an original or certified copy of an actual status certificate issued by the competent court not earlier than three months from the date of submission of the application. (5) The documents under para. 1, 2 and 4 shall be submitted in person or by an authorised person with a notary certified power of attorney by post with a return receipt or by order of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. (6) The following circumstances shall be entered in the register: 1. details of the person's name, registered office, type of person; 2. a unique BULSTAT registry identifier, a unique trader identification code; 3. details of the representation of the person by court, respectively commercial registration.. Name, CNN, permanent and/or current address; 4. types of social services to be provided and license number when providing services to children; 5. data on infringements committed in the provision of social services; 6. date of deletion of the registration and the basis for this; 7. changes in the circumstances under point 7. 1.. 4; 8. observations on the recorded circumstances. (7) Providers of social services under art. 18, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 shall notify the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance in writing of any changes in the circumstances under para. 6, p. 4 within 14 days of their entry, applying the relevant documents which prove them. Art. 18c. (1) The Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency or an official authorised by him within 7 days of the date of submission of the application under art. 18b, para. 1 issue an order for entry in the register or issue a reasoned refusal of entry in the register notified to the person. (2) In the event of findings of deficiencies and/or irregularities in the documents submitted to the person shall be given a 14-day period for their removal, such as the period for ruling under para. 1 shall begin by removing irregularities and/or providing additional information. (3) Refusal under para. 1 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (4) On the basis of the order for entry in the register under para. 1 a certificate shall be issued for each social service according to a model approved by the Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency. (5) The Agency for Social Assistance shall send by official means to the State Agency for Child Protection the issued, renewed and/or reissued certificates to authorised social service providers for children within three days of their issuance. (6) The delivery of the certificate under para. 5 shall be carried out at the same time as the service of the licence issued by the State Agency for Child Protection under the Law on Child Protection. (7) The certificates under para. 4 shall be received at the Agency for Social Assistance within one month from the date of issue by a person representing the persons referred to in Article. 18, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 or a person authorised by him with a notary certified power of attorney and, in the case of an explicit volition, shall be sent to the correspondence address indicated in the application and/or to the address to which the applicant is registered by letter of return. (8) In cases where the certificates under para. 4 shall not be obtained in accordance with para. 7, they shall be sent to the applicant with a return receipt of the correspondence address indicated by him in the application or to the address at which he is registered. (9) Within two months of the expiry of the certificate under para. 4 persons under art. 18, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 may apply for renewal of the certificate according to the model according to art. 18b, para. 1 to which persons who are traders present a single identification code and persons who are not registered in the trade register to the Registry Agency shall provide an original or certified copy of a certificate of actual status or registration issued by the competent court not earlier than three months from the date of submission of the application. (10) In the event of changes in the circumstances of art. 18b, para. 6, p. 1 The Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance or an official authorised by him shall issue an order for their coverage in the register and re-issue of the certificates issued under para. 4 within 5 days of notification under art. 18b, para. 7. (11) If the certificate is lost or destroyed, the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance or an official authorised by him on written request of the person referred to in Article. 18, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 shall issue a duplicate of the certificate on the basis of the order under para. 1. Art. 18 years old. (1) By 31 March each year, registered social service providers shall submit to the Social Assistance Agency a report on the activities of providing social services for the previous calendar year in electronic format as established by the Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency. (2) Reports submitted to the State Agency for Child Protection by authorised social service providers for children shall be provided electronically to the Agency for Social Assistance by 30 April each year. Art. 18e. (1) Registration is deleted: 1. at the request of the registered person; 2. upon termination of the legal person and on deletion from the commercial register of the natural person registered under the Commercial Law; 3. in case of non-compliance with the standards and criteria for the provision of social services defined under art. 18a, para. 6 on a proposal from the competent authority following a verification carried out by the competent authority; 4. in the event of non-execution of social services by the registered person for one year from the date of registration or from the date of receipt of the last report under art. 18d, para. 1; 5. in the event of non-compliance with the requirement under art. 18d, para. 1 for one year; 6. in the case of withdrawal, termination or deletion of the licence for the provision of social services to children; 7. in case the certificate under art. 18c was not received within three months of its issuance; 8. in the event of termination of social service management under art. 18a, para. 8; 9. in the event of failure to provide information within 14 days of changes to the circumstances, certified by the documents to the application for entry in the register, where such changes have led to the removal of the grounds for registration. (2) The deletion of the registration shall be carried out by order of the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance or of an official authorised by him. (3) Within 7 days of the issue of the order under para. 2 The person concerned shall be notified by return letter. (4) The order under para. 2 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (5) The appeal of the order under para. 2 does not stop its execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u35	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 8 by importer, supported in principle by the Commission and edited by the same. Voted 118 MPs: 104 against 1, abstention 13. Paragraph 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u36	Under § 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, as well as under the heading of the division, no proposals have been made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 as well as the title of the division.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u37	We are voting for paragraphs 9 to 13 including an importer supported by the Commission, as well as for the name of the Vote 113 MPs: for 107, there is no objection, abstention 6. Paragraphs 9 to 13 including the Commission's report, as well as the name of the division "Transitional and final provisions' have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u38	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... The Law on Child Protection (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. Article 43b is amended as follows: "Litzens" Art. 43b. (1) The persons referred to in art. 18, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 of the Social Assistance Act may provide social services for children after obtaining a licence issued by the President of the State Agency for Child Protection on a proposal from a licensing commission composed of representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Youth and Sport, the State Agency for Child Protection, the Agency for Social Assistance and the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. (2) The licence shall be named and the rights deriving from it shall not be subject to transfer and transfer. (3) The licence shall contain: 1. licence holder; 2. BULSTAT/single identification code; 3. address/sedal and driving address; 4. the social service for which the licence is issued; 5. The duration of the license. (4) A licence shall be issued for each individual social service for a period of three years and may be renewed after its expiry. (5) For the examination of documents for the issue of a license to provide social service to children and for the renewal of a licence issued, fees shall be due which shall be paid to the Social Protection Fund to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and shall be spent on child protection activities. (6) Fees shall be collected for the examination of documents for the issue and renewal of a licence by a tariff approved by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the President of the State Agency for Child Protection. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2, 3, 4 and 5: ,(2) For obtaining a licence the persons referred to in art. 18, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 of the Social Assistance Act submit to the President of the State Agency for Child Protection an application on a model approved by him to which the following documents apply: 1. a copy of the BULSTAT registry identification card and/or an indication of a single identification code; 2. an actual status certificate issued by the competent court not earlier than three months from the date of submission of the application; 3. a declaration that the applicant is not declared bankrupt, is not in bankruptcy proceedings and is not in liquidation; 4. evidence of criminality of the person and of the legal persons.. evidence of criminality of the members of their management bodies; 5. description of the social service on a model established by the President of the State Agency for Child Protection. (3) The persons registered under the Commercial Law shall not submit the documents under para. 2, p. Two and three. (4) The persons referred to in art. 18, para. 1, t. 4 of the Social Assistance Act provide an official translation of the applicable under para. 2 documents issued by the competent authority of the country concerned. (5) The documents under para. 2 shall be submitted in person or by an authorised person with a notarized power of attorney, by mail with a return receipt or by order of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signage. 3. Article 43d is amended as follows: The licensing committee shall be responsible for the implementation Art. 43 C.E. (1) The Commission under art. 43b, para. 1: 1. examine the applications received for the issue and renewal of a licence and the notifications of a change of circumstances certified in a licence issued; 2. inform the applicants in case of established irregularities in the documents and give instructions for its removal; 3. make reasoned proposals to the President of the State Agency for Child Protection for issue, change, renewal, termination, withdrawal, deletion or refusal of a licence. (2) The members of the commission shall be proposed by the relevant state bodies under art. 43b, para. 1 and approved by the President of the State Agency for Child Protection. (3) The Chair of the Committee shall convene meetings in accordance with the applications and notifications received and shall inform the members of the scheduled meetings which shall be regular if they are attended by two thirds of all its members. Minutes shall be kept for committee meetings. (4) The Commission shall examine the applications and notifications, conduct a discussion and decide by a clear vote by a majority of more than two thirds of the members present. If necessary, the Commission may request opinions from other specialists in the area of child protection. (5) The work of the Commission shall be carried out: 1. a register of the applications received; 2. a record book; 3. a register of licenses issued; 4. a register of registration certificates received by the Agency for Social Assistance issued under the Social Assistance Act. (6) The Register under para. 5, t. 3 contains: 1. the information under art. 43b, para. 3; 2. the number and date of the licence issued; 3. the date of service of the licence and the signature of the recipient; 4. the date of renewal, termination, deletion or revocation of the licence. (7) The documents submitted under art. 43c are stored in the State Agency for Child Protection under the National Archive Fund Act and are accessible to all interested parties. (8) The activities of the Commission shall be assisted administratively by the State Agency for Child Protection. 4. Article 43e is amended as follows: A licence issued by a Member State shall be issued by Art. 43d. (1) Within one month of the receipt of the application for authorisation, the President of the State Agency for Child Protection shall, on a proposal from the Committee on Art. 43b, para. 1 issue a licence or refuse its issue if the applicant does not meet the conditions set out in art. 43c, para. 1 and/or has not submitted any of the documents under art. 43c, para. 2 within the time limit set for that period. (2) The Commission shall be referred to as Art. 43b, para. 1 shall examine the applications received in the order of their receipt. (3) The Chair of the Committee on Art. 43b, para. 1 within three days of the examination of the application shall inform the applicant if there is an irregularity in the documents referred to in Article. 43c, para. 2, giving instructions for its removal within 14 days. In this case, the one-month term under para. 1 shall cease to run from the date of sending the message until the irregularity has been eliminated, but not more than 30 days. (4) The President of the Commission under art. 43b, para. 1 makes a reasoned proposal to the President of the State Agency for Child Protection for the issue or refusal of a licence within three days of the examination of the application. (5) The order of the President of the State Agency for Child Protection for the issue of a licence or refusal of authorisation shall be communicated in writing to the applicant within three days of the date of issue of the authorisation. (6) The licence shall be issued according to a model approved by the President of the State Agency for Child Protection. (7) If the licence issued is lost or destroyed, the President of the State Agency for Child Protection shall, upon written request of the person under art. 18, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 of the Social Assistance Act may issue a duplicate of the licence. (8) In the event of a change of circumstances certified in the issued licence, the provider of a social service for children shall inform the President of the State Agency for Child Protection in writing within 14 days of the change occurring and shall apply the relevant documents proving it. (9) On the basis of an order of the President of the State Agency for Child Protection, the changed circumstance under para. 8 is reflected in a new licence without changing its duration. (10) The licence issued and the registration certificate issued under art. 18b, para. Art. 3 and Art. 18c, para. 4 of the Law on Social Assistance shall be obtained in the State Agency for Child Protection within one month from the date of issue of the licence by a person representing the persons under art. 18, para. 1 points 3 and 4 or by a person authorised by him with a notarised power of attorney and, in the case of an explicit volition, shall be sent to the correspondence address indicated in the application and/or to the address to which the applicant is registered by a return letter. 5. Article 43f is amended as follows: supplies of the licensed social service provider for children Art. 43f. (1) The licensed social service provider for children shall be obliged, within 12 months of receipt of the licence, to start a service provision activity. (2) Within 14 days of the start of the activity of providing the service, the authorised supplier shall notify the President of the State Agency for Child Protection in writing of: 1. the date of the start of the activity of providing the service for which it has obtained a licence; 2. the address/addresses of providing the service, except for mobile services for which an address for correspondence is indicated. (3) In the event that the licensed social service provider for children has ceased its activities for a period longer than three months, he shall be obliged, within 14 days of their expiry, to inform the President of the State Agency for Child Protection of the event, indicating the relevant reasons. (4) In the event of changes in circumstances certified by the documents referred to in art. 43c, the provider of a social service for children is obliged within 14 days to notify in writing the President of the State Agency for Child Protection and to submit the relevant document. (5) Every year by 31 March the licensed suppliers shall submit to the State Agency for Child Protection in electronic format a report on their activities relating to the social service they provide for children for the previous calendar year. (6) The report under para. 5 contains summary information on the results achieved with service users. 6. Article 43g is amended as follows: Renewal of a licence Art. 43g. (1) Before the expiry date of the social service licence for children, the service provider may request renewal of the licence where: 1. intends to continue to provide the designated service after the expiry of the three-year period of the licence and meets the conditions of art. 43c, para. 1; 2. in the case of checks carried out in accordance with art. 17a, para. 1, t. 14 and/or 16 it has been found that no mandatory prescriptions have been issued for the removal of detected violations of the rights of the child and/or for the provision of the service or comply with the prescriptions in good faith and that no criminal decrees have been issued under imposed acts of infringement under art. 45, para. 5-12; 3. has provided current accounts of its activities within the duration of the licence. (2) In the cases under para. 1 providers of social services for children shall submit an application on a template approved by the President of the State Agency for Child Protection and those required under art. 43c, para. 2, p. 1-4 documents not later than one month before the expiry date of the licence. (3) The persons registered under the Commercial Law shall not submit the documents under art. 43c, para. 2, p. Two and three. (4) Those submitted after the term under para. 2 applications shall not be examined by the Commission under art. 43b, para. 1 and the applicant shall be informed of the need to apply for a new licence under art. 43c. (5) In cases where there is no change in the circumstances certified in the original licence, a new licence shall be issued on the basis of an order of the President of the State Agency for Child Protection, such as the application under para. 2 shall not be considered by the Committee on Art. 2. 43b, para. 1. (6) In cases where there is a change of circumstances certified in the issued licence, the renewal of the licence shall be carried out by order of the President of the State Agency for Child Protection in accordance with art. 43d. (7) The order for refusal to renew the licence shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. 7. Article 43h is amended as follows: "Recruitment, revocation and deletion of a licence' Art. 43z. (1) The President of the State Agency for Child Protection on a proposal from the Committee on Art. 43b, para. 1 by order terminates, revokes and deletes a license issued for the provision of social service to children. (2) A licence issued for the provision of social service for children shall be terminated when the holder: 1. has requested its termination in writing with an application stating reasons for termination; 2. do not start to provide the service within 12 months of receipt of the licence; 3. within the term referred to in Article 3. 43f, para. 2 has not informed the President of the State Agency for Child Protection of the start of the activity of providing the service for which it is licensed; 4. within the term referred to in Article 4. 43f, para. 2 has not informed the President of the State Agency for Child Protection of the address/addresses of the provision of the service for which he is being held in the cases in which he is applicable. (3) A licence issued for the provision of social service for children shall be revoked when the holder: 1. does not comply with standards for the provision of social services for children; 2. perform activity in violation of the licence received; 3. has not fulfilled a mandatory prescription issued by the President of the State Agency for Child Protection; 4. did not provide information within 14 days of changes to the circumstances certified by the documents to the licence application and/or certified in the licence issued; 5. has suspended the provision of the social service for more than three months without indicating a good reason leading to the cessation of the activity; 6. by 31 March of the calendar year has not submitted a written report of its activity under the service for the previous calendar year. (4) A new licence for the specific social service for children may be issued after one year of withdrawal. (5) A licence issued for the provision of social service for children may be deleted if the licensed provider of the specific social service within three months from the date of issue of the licence has not appeared to receive the documents under art. 43d, para. 10 and/or has not stated their receipt otherwise. The failure to obtain the documents under art. 43d, para. 10 shall be certified by the Chair of the Committee on Art. 10. 43b, para. 1 which notes this fact of the return letter with the return receipt. (6) On a proposal from the Commission under art. 43b, para. 1 The President of the State Agency for Child Protection shall appoint to the social service provider for children an appropriate period for the removal of the infringement under para. 2, points 3 and 4 or para. Three, but no more than three months. In the event that the infringement is not resolved within that period, the licence shall be terminated accordingly. (7) The order under para. 1 shall be communicated to the interested parties within three days of the date of issue. The order shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. 8. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 43i: "Integrating between the State Agency for Child Protection, the Social Assistance Agency and the Social Protection Fund" Art. 43rd. (1) The President of the State Agency for Child Protection within three days of the entry into force of the relevant order shall send to the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance a copy of the issued/renewed and modified licences for social services for children and related information under art. 18b, para. 6, p. 1-5 of the Social Assistance Act, as well as a copy of the orders issued for the termination, revocation and deletion of licences with a view to the registration of those circumstances in the register under the Law on Social Assistance and the issue, renewal, re-issue and deletion of registration certificates. (2) The Agency for Social Assistance shall enter into the register under the order of the Social Assistance Act the circumstances under para. 1 within five days of being granted by the State Agency for Child Protection. (3) The Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance shall send to the President of the State Agency for Child Protection the issued, renewed and/or reissued registration certificates within three days of their issue. (4) Every year by 30 April of the calendar year, the President of the State Agency for Child Protection shall send to the Executive Director of the Agency for Social Assistance those presented under art. 43f, para. 5 reports on the activity of licensed suppliers related to the social service they provide for children for the previous calendar year. (5) The Executive Director of the Social Services Fund shall send to the President of the State Agency for Child Protection by name a reference for the fees paid for the examination of documents for issuing and renewing a licence under art. 43b, para. 5 within three days of their entry into the fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Colleagues, statements under § 14? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 14 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: 101, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u40	Under § 15 there is a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u41	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 15 by importer. Vote 108 MPs: 100 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u42	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... The licences issued under the Law on Child Protection before the date of entry into force of this law shall remain valid until their expiry. Before the expiry of their term, the persons referred to in art. 18, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 of the Social Assistance Act shall submit to the President of the State Agency for Child Protection an application under art. 43c of the Child Protection Act for obtaining a new license.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u43	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 15 on the Commission report. They voted 115 MPs: 109, against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we're going back to the debate on Paragraph 7. Are there any MPs who would like to speak? Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the proposed amendment of Article 7 of Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2011 amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Council For greater review and systematicity in the Law, I would like to ask for the following editorial change. The second sentence of this article to become para. 11 and hence the text shall remain the same. I'll read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u45	Mr. Karadjov, editorial proposals are made on the proposed text of the Commission under § 7. So, on it, where do you find the second sentence, for which you offer numbering? [[Replication of MP Grozdan Karadzhov away from the microphone.]] That's not supported. The editorial should be made on the Commission's proposal. [[Heckling]] Here is the Commission's proposal, paragraph 7, here tell me where you are proposing a change.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u46	I propose a text from me to become a new para. 11 to art. 18a. And since the first sentence will be repeated, with the existing and current norm of art. 18a, para. 3, I suggest this is just the second sentence, so I would like to read the edit.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u47	Yeah, how's that sound?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u48	The editing is as follows: The Mayor of the municipality may when announcing a competition for the award of social services under para. 3 delegated by the State activity and local activities, to include in the competition and to require the supplier to provide the necessary material base for the provision of the award service.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u49	I understand that after this proposal, which is the essence of your proposal, you are withdrawing the other proposals in the unsupported part.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u50	Yes, in this case, I would like the other two proposals I have made to withdraw them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u51	Okay. Are there any lines, other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Mr. Karadjov's unsupported proposal has been withdrawn. At the same time, however, by going to vote on the Commission's amendment, it proposes a new para. 11 to the Commission's version with the following content: The Mayor of the municipality may when announcing a competition for the award of social services under para. 3 which are delegated by the State activities and local activities, to include in the competition and to require the supplier to provide the necessary material basis for the provision of the award service. That's it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u52	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u53	We are voting for the... this is an editorial addition to the version of § 7 on the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u54	Madam President, just one technical note. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 of § 7 in the final version of the importer: the creation of para. 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u55	And 11, yes. Colleagues, we are voting simultaneously on the Appendix. 3 of Mr. Ademov to join the new para. 11, and al. 11 with the content Mr. Karadjov suggested. 100 MPs voted: 91 against 3, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Now we are voting the entire § 7 in one with the new paragraphs that we have just adopted. Vote 94 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 6. The proposal has been adopted and the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Social Assistance Act has been adopted at second reading. We continue the weekly program with: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE MAINTENANCE TO THE EUROPEAN LOCAL AGENCY FOR THE RIGHT OF PARTICIPATION IN THE CASES OF LOCAL POWER. There is a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Zelenogorski, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Charter on Local Self-government for the right to participate in the affairs of the local authorities, No 502-02-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers. At its meeting held on 11 December 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft for ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Charter on Local Self-government for the right to participate in the affairs of the local authorities submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 November 2015. Mrs. Irinka Zaharieva, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Strategic Planning of Regional Development and Administrative Territorial Development, took part in the meeting of the Commission in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which presented the draft on behalf of the importer. The European Charter on Local Self-government was ratified by a law adopted by the 37th National Assembly on 17 March 1995. The Additional Protocol to the Charter aims to further develop the principles and rules for the direct participation of citizens in the local government and is the result of long-standing efforts for more than 20 years and intergovernmental work within the Council of Europe on democratic participation at local level. At present, the protocol has been signed by 19 countries and has been ratified by 13 of them. Ratification of the Additional Protocol will not lead to a need for further changes in domestic legislation, as the right of citizens to participate in the affairs of local communities is regulated in a number of existing regulations and is applied in practice in the activities of the Bulgarian municipalities. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 10 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We will now also hear the report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u57	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Charter on Local Self-government for the Right to Participation in Local Government Affairs, No 502-02-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20.11.2015. At its regular meeting held on 13.01.2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the draft legislation tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by Mr. Ivan Asparuhov "Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works," and Mrs. Irinka Zaharieva "Director General of the Directorate-General" Strategic planning of regional development and administrative-terror device "in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works." The Republic of Bulgaria ratified by a law adopted by the 37th National Assembly on 17 March 1995, the European Charter for Local Self-government of the Council of Europe. The Republic of Bulgaria declares commitment to all provisions of the Charter. It acknowledges that the right of citizens to participate in the management of public affairs is one of the democratic principles shared by all the Member States of the Council of Europe. The additional protocol on the right to participate in the affairs of the local authorities is drawn up by the European Committee on Local and Regional Democracy of the Council of Europe. It is the culmination of more than two decades of intergovernmental work within the Council of Europe on democratic participation at local level. At present, the Additional Protocol is signed by 19 Member States of the Council of Europe (Armenia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Hungary, Iceland, Lithuania, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Slovenia, Sweden, Macedonia and Ukraine) and ratified by 13 of them (Armenia, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, Hungary, Lithuania, Montenegro, the Netherlands, Norway, Slovenia, Sweden, Macedonia and Ukraine). The approval and signature of the Additional Protocol is in line with the objectives and priorities of the Decentralisation Strategy (2006-2015).) related to the creation of conditions for citizens to participate in the policy-making process and decision-making for local development. In accordance with art. The Additional Protocol shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the expiry of a period of three months following the date of submission of the ratification, acceptance or validation documents. Within the quoted deadline, the Additional Protocol will enter into force for the Republic of Bulgaria after its ratification by the National Assembly. In view of the achieved compliance of the Additional Protocol with the provisions of the Bulgarian legislation, the adoption of new regulations will not be necessary. The right to participate in the affairs of the local authorities is applied in the activities of the Bulgarian municipalities. In a number of municipalities are adopted regulations for civic participation in the cases of the municipality concerned, and separate regulations for specific policies specify the way the local community participates. The Additional Protocol does not provide for the possibility for Member States to express reservations and declarations under its provisions, so that the Republic of Bulgaria should be bound by all its provisions. The ratification of the Additional Protocol will not have a direct and/or indirect impact on the state budget. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, by 16 votes for.............................................................................................. 85, para. 1, t. 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the draft Law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Charter on Local Self-government for the right to participate in the affairs of the local authorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u58	The debate is open. Are there any MPs who wish to take part in the ratification? I won't. I put to the first vote the Bill on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-government on the right to participate in the affairs of the local authorities. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're listening, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u59	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I propose today that the bill and ratification in question be passed at second reading. In this sense, I am making a procedural proposal for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u60	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Zelenogor. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We're listening to a second reading report, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u61	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Charter of Local Self-government on the right to participate in the affairs of the local authorities A single member. Ratifying the Additional Protocol to the European Charter on Local Self-government for the Right to Participation in Local Government Affairs, signed for the Republic of Bulgaria on 11 May 2012
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u62	Are there statements like for a second reading on Mr. Zelenogorski's report? I won't. We are voting on the draft Law as it has been reported. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Rest until 11:00 when we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u63	Colleagues, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 18 December 2015 "January 14th, 2016: - a request from the National Representative Yavor Haytov to Ekaterina Gecheva Zaharieva, Minister of Justice, on the implementation of Decision No 42 of 26 January 2015 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria for the adoption of a Programme of the Government for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2018, in the part of Chapter 2. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 22 January 2016; - a request from the National Representative Ivan Kostadinov Stankov to Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food, on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for stimulating farmers from small and medium-sized agricultural business, should be answered in the plenary session on 22 January 2016. Written answers to service: - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to five questions from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to two questions from the MP Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to ask by the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Economy Borislav Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to a question from the National Representative Yavor Haytov; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Ralitsa Angelova; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to two questions from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov; - by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov; - by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov; - from the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev to a question from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Galina Balabanova; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MP Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov. The written answers presented were presented to the present MPs, the others will receive them from the administration of the National Assembly. Dear MPs, today's parliamentary control begins with the answers of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov. The first question will be developed by the national representative Stanislav Stanilov, but this will happen after the declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u64	Honourable President, Prime Minister, honourable Members! The last months, especially the last days of the past 2015, and literally the first hours of the first day of 2016 have made it clear that the world and Europe are no longer the same. In fact, they have not been the same for a long time, but only now have one part of European politicians and most of European citizens understood it. My fellow Members, I think that it has already become clear to everyone that there is a war going on in Europe between two different civilizations, a cowardly hiding and long-standing fact, which we have literally seen in the first hours of the new 2016 year, although an attempt has been made to conceal this from the so-called free liberal institutions and media in Europe. What happened? Crowds of bearded colonists have declared their goals in an absolutely unpardonable way. These are the same ones that European hypocritical politicians have long referred to as refugees and to whom, for decades, undeserved hospitality has been shown what their real purpose really is. Let us not delude ourselves, an attempt was made not only to rape thousands of women in Europe. These people clearly and unambiguously spat in the face of the inadequate European political class and its policy, showing that they did not recognise the value system, the history, culture and traditions of European countries that had given them their warm hospitality. Ladies and gentlemen, these recent brutal events have shown only one point of view of the majority of the people who have in recent decades and, above all, flooded Europe in the last year, have no desire and intention to integrate into our European society. They intend to impose on us Europeans, their ways, their ways of life and their religion. Starting 2016 will show whether or not the European Union will be, or whether it will not be. Today we are called upon to preserve a Europe of sovereign national states and to save our own national states. It has now become clear that the multicultural liberal model has collapsed. By the way, British Prime Minister Cameron said that five years ago. There is no liberal response to rape, dear colleagues! Whatever we're talking about, whatever small talk and formulas they're launching from here and there, there's no liberal answer to the fact that someone's hitting on our women. When someone has come to your home and is brazen, thinking they can do what they want, the answer must be very direct and uncompromising! It has already become clear that Europe cannot move along this liberal one, I would call it an unborn road, without nations and without Christianity, this is the main conclusion because the European value system itself, the world value liberal system itself, was built 70 years ago on the basis of the fundamental human and Christian values. Dear colleagues, what concerns Europe is very much about Bulgaria as well. Bulgaria is at the very border of the conflict and borders Turkey, which for more than 10 years removes the secular regime, imposing a pro-Islamic and neo-Osmanist policy. It is high time for us to come out of the delusion that we are some island of stability that will be surrounded by problems. Bulgaria is at the risk of being easily destabilized. Today we no longer need just stability, we need it and we need strength. First of all, the power to see the need for unity of our nation and to stop the last quarter century's characteristic political struggles between the parties. These struggles, these petty political conflicts, which are sought with occasion or without occasion, lead to only one......................that our nation is fighting in rival camps, killing the valuable energy that must move Bulgaria forward, and wasting time. Bulgaria needs the power to force the ghetto people to stop beating doctors and teachers, stop robbing pensioners, stop stealing and become normal citizens. Bulgaria needs the strength to stop the irresponsible birth rate in order not to listen to how the first newborn somewhere was born in a hut, and only to earn some lev, resort to the cunning to name the child after the Prime Minister in order to earn some benefit. [[Laughter, excitement.]] This has to end! The power of the state is needed to be shown when we defend our border against illegal migrants in Bulgaria, and some of them may be terrorists! The power is to give Bulgaria a rise, not only to apply it along the borders of the country. The stability of Bulgaria is valuable only as a basis of growth, otherwise it becomes a routine. We are in debt to the Bulgarian business as well. I am talking about Parliament and all institutions and Bulgarian pensioners and Bulgarian mothers! Today, therefore, the Patriotic Front raises the following few questions that we believe the government should pay attention to. We also put them in our declaration at the beginning of this session. First, a policy that does not lead to an increase in the price of electricity. Currently the Bulgarians are worried about the famous ideas for liberalization of the market. Power must first of all make sure that no one fears the increase in the price of electricity. Energy requires radical revision and termination of those enslaving contracts, which result in the accumulation of losses in NEC and put our energy system in collapse. It is necessary for each consumer to pay his bills, not for the ghettos to work the so-called private energy, the costs for which ordinary Bulgarian citizens pay, but the money collects local bees from the ghettos! It is necessary against the background of everything that is happening in the world and in Europe, revision and Islam in our country. We should not allow individuals who have graduated institutes in countries where radical Islam is being preached and practiced to practice in Bulgaria! See what Austria has done last year - a European country that no one can accuse of either undemocratic or inhumanity, a country from which we can take an example of how national interests are protected. All spiritual persons of all religions must have graduated from our home and practiced under the control of the state. Foreign citizens should not be allowed to preach Islam and other religions in Bulgaria. Sermons must not be allowed to be done in anyone other than the official language in order for the State to exercise its effective control. Thirdly, Bulgaria must express a very clear position in terms of Turkey's policy that Turkey's possible offer to enter the European Union will go through a referendum held in Bulgaria. Even more categorically to take action to address the demographic problem. We can't be among the fastest disappearing nations in the world anymore! The death rate in Bulgaria cannot be higher than in countries such as Afghanistan and Iraq, where wars have been fought for decades! There can no longer be tolerated the promiscuous birth rate in the slums, but for educated families and parents who have worked hard to educate themselves, seek work and work, have no means to put them in a discriminatory position because of people who cannot read their name or write it without spelling mistakes, people who make children only because of social benefits and not because of love for children! It's the truth, and you all know it! Measures are also needed to deal with domestic crime. What the Interior Minister began to do in the middle of last year were measures that are a good indicator that the state has will. From now on, we all need to support the efforts, as they are not the efforts of this or that government, but they are the efforts of the Bulgarian state to give guarantee to the ordinary Bulgarian citizen, who, due to the same political struggles we have been fighting for 25 years, the whole division imposed by politicians 25 years, lives miserable, takes miserable pensions after 40 years of work, but is not sure that tomorrow his dark citizens will not come to rob him, beat him, forced him or, unfortunately, even kill him! Domestic crime remains the main scourge that plagues Bulgarian society. Yes, for the media it must be more interesting which businessman has been killed, as it is more flattering as news, but let us also think about the ordinary Bulgarian who is the victim of all this political opposition. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Honourable President, Prime Minister, honourable Members! Let us show the Bulgarian society in early 2016 that all political parties, whether they are called left, right, centrist, whether they confess one ideology or another, can put Bulgaria's interests above all and above all! Everything else, ladies and gentlemen, if it continues this way, will be recorded in Bulgarian history as the fall of the current political generation! Thank you. [[Single applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u65	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Mr. Stanislav Stanilov has the opportunity to develop his question to Prime Minister Borisov on the Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the state of national security.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u66	Madam President, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues! According to S.A. 157 of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers shall submit to the National Assembly by the end of March the Annual Report on the State of National Security. The report has not been submitted in time and the possibility of being submitted by the end of the year does not appear. I am referring to the previous year, as my question to the Prime Minister is from before New Year's. With two wars near Bulgaria, huge refugee flows and threats of terrorist attacks, our country has no clear priorities to be discussed and subjected to parliamentary control by the MPs. A logical consequence is the total chaos and confusion seen in the behavior of our official institutions and the diverse signals that the country gives us to the outside world. At the same time, threats to Bulgaria increase daily. We have serious concerns that at this point our country's security is not sufficiently guaranteed. Against the backdrop of all of this, Mr Prime Minister, the lack of the Annual Report on the State of National Security shows the government's reluctance or inability to look into the threats faced by our country. In this regard, please answer me when will the Council of Ministers fulfil its obligation to submit to the National Assembly an annual report on the state of national security? Why hasn't he done it before? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u67	Mr. Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanilov, the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria is part of the report of each government on the implementation of its management program based on a clear mandate by the National Assembly. This report reflects the implementation of political commitments and the realization of political responsibility. In 2014, our country was ruled by three governments with the opposite political and economic concept. The government, which was elected by the Forty-third National Assembly, took office on 7 November 2014 and cannot be held responsible and take into account the complex of national security activities carried out by previous Council of Ministers. This conclusion is confirmed by the current practice of submitting projects for the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria and the prepared working version of the draft report for 2014. Dear Mr. Stanilov, the degree of organisation that the government achieved in 2015 in response to a series of acute national security crises gives me reason to disagree with your statements in the statement of the issue addressed to me that the country has no clear priorities that are discussed and subjected to parliamentary control by the MPs. I also cannot agree with your claim about the total chaos and confusion that is observed in the behaviour of the official institutions and the diverse signals that the country gives us to the outside world. The executive institutions are in constant coordination, making the necessary connections at all levels. The operational interaction of border guards and countering illegal migration is strengthened, which is carried out by the forces of the Border Police with the help of soldiers from the formations of the Bulgarian Army. In conclusion, Mr. Stanilov, an organization has been established and a draft annual report on the state of national security is being prepared in 2015, which will be submitted to the National Assembly by the beginning of March this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u69	The line, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u70	Dear Prime Minister, allow me to disagree with your opinion that during the period when there was another government, when there were other rulers with another ideology, perhaps, although it is not quite accurate, the government has no right to write such a report. This in the report is an assessment and could also be assessed in such a report the period during which it managed this government, the past government and which made this government, but this is a matter of your judgment. As for your disagreement with me that there is chaos and other such weaknesses in the state of national security, I am an opposition and that is my personal opinion. Not just my opinion, but also my colleagues from Ataka Party. I am not sure that you can confirm with the facts that there is a complete order everywhere, and everything is, so to speak, in order, because lately we have unsolved symbolic murders, unsolved domestic crimes that follow one after the other, which should be put to an end. If everything were in order, Vratsa's citizens would not go out yesterday and today to protests about the murder of a student there, but, anyway. This lasts 25 years and I do not think that in this period the government is different from previous governments, worse, for example. If you remember when you were running another government and you were Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior and then it was full of homicides, you appeared at the scene of the murders, you promised that they would be discovered. They discovered a small part of them, and so the others remained unsolved. So in the state of national security, everything is not in order, and I'm right, claiming that in some sense there is chaos, there is confusion and so on. If you say that by the end of March there will be such a report, I hope you will keep your word and that such a report will indeed be there. And then, Prime Minister, in the debate, the various parties will speak their minds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u71	A hole, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u72	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Stanilov! Disagreement does not mean disrespect and disregard for your opinion. It's just that the terms that are used are different. There is no country where a prime minister or an interior minister or a chief prosecutor can come out and say: everything is absolutely fine with us and everything is in flowers and roses, as you say. You see in the world right now, and in very highly developed countries in economics, if you will and institutionally, what crimes, what problems they have, how the police react, what criticism they are under, in other places what total purges in the state media are getting. Every country has its problems. I fully agree with you, and I hope that in this report we will propose and implement, as well as Mr. Karakachanov's Declaration said, measures that will in any case aim to improve. And in this sense, especially in the laws that will now enter the judiciary, criminal proceedings and others, this is where Parliament can help greatly with voting on these laws and rules that govern processes that none of us like. You saw that yesterday the D.A. reacted immediately to what happened the other day and put people on the streets. That's what the institution could have done, that's what the Ministry of Interior could have done, and that's what they did. With all due respect to you, I also hope that in the debate on the Annual Report, of course, and in these laws that are to be seen at the moment, all these processes will be regulated, especially for pending cases. I've said many times: you can't have people with 20s, 30s, 40 pending cases of theft, crimes, robberies not piled up, dragged around for years until someone kills them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u73	Next is a question of the MP Yavor Haytov regarding the state of the Eastern Orthodox temples in the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u74	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! The traditional religion in the Republic of Bulgaria is Eastern Orthodox. This is explicitly stated in art. 13 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, my question to you, Mr. Prime Minister, is: what is the functional state of the Eastern Orthodox temples in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria What funds were earmarked for repair, maintenance and restoration of the most needy churches and monasteries in the past 2015? What funds do you foresee and for which temples will be set aside for repair and maintenance, and bringing them into a position to perform Christian rites in 2016? What is the total number of places to perform religious rites and other religions that function on the territory of our country? And the last question in this group that I have allowed myself to address to you is: how do you track down...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u75	You are entitled to one question in parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u76	Yes, you did, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u77	You've made seven-eight. Let's do the next one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u78	They're a group of questions, the subject is the same. So: in what way are the traces of non - preaching of religions that instill religious hatred, radicalism, and forms of violence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u79	Mr. Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, to your question: what funds were allocated for the repair, maintenance and restoration of the most needed churches and monasteries in 2015, I inform you that for the repair of the temple of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church municipalities abroad the Directorate of Religions of the Council of Ministers has distributed from the state subsidy provided for in the Act on the State Budget for 2015 as follows: for the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in Hamburg 20 thousand. EUR; in Mannheim, 4 thousand. EUR; in Zagreb, 2 thousand. EUR; in Berlin, "94 thousand." EUR; in The Hague, 12 thousand. EUR; in Vienna, 3 thousand. EUR; in Istanbul " 60 thousand. euros; in the village of Steblevo, Albania "9 thousand." euros; Dimitrovgrad, Serbia EUR; in Pretoria, South Africa; 20 thousand. EUR for the construction of a new temple. For the construction and repair of Orthodox temples and monasteries from the state subsidy, designed for the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, 2 million were used. Three hundred and thirty thousand. They support construction and repair activities over 350 sites, of which 321 churches and 29 monasteries. The beneficiaries of the funds can be seen in the lists presented and approved by the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers and the Directorate of Budget and Finance of the Council of Ministers. To your question, what are the earmarked means for the functioning of temples that do not fall within the scope of traditional Eastern legal religion: 50 thousand are distributed to the Catholic Church in Bulgaria. BGN translated into the Catholic Nikopol Diocese for repair of the Catholic Church in Veliko Tarnovo. State subsidy intended for the Armenian Apostolic Orthodox Church of 50 thousand. BGN, was translated for repair of the Armenian temple in Ruse and completed the construction activities of the new Armenian church in Sofia. For the Muslim confession as of 31.12.2015 the state subsidy for religion was distributed 360 thousand. lv. They helped partially the construction and repair works of 49 mosques. The state subsidy, intended for the religious community of the Jews in Bulgaria, amounted to 50 thousand. lv. is transferred to an account of the religion for the repair and construction of prayer homes and partly covering expenses for the maintenance of religion. From the state subsidy intended for other registered faiths in the country, 80 thousand were allocated and used as of 31.12.2015. lv. for the repair and construction of prayer homes of eight faiths: evangelist, Methodist, Episcopal Church, Jewish Center "Habat Ljubavich", Bulgarian Zen Society "Ken Zen Sho", Buddhist community in Bulgaria, God's Church in Bulgaria, Union of the Church of Adventists on the seventh day, Church of God, Union of Evangelical Churches. From the state subsidy designed to repair church buildings of national importance as at 31.12.2015 450 thousand were allocated. lv. to support construction and repair activities in the churches. Sofia "in Sofia" and "Assumption of the Mother of God" in Sozopol, as well as the building fund of Rila, Bachkovskia, Troyanskia, Basarbovskia, Muldavska, Golyamobukovsky, Kurilska, Dryanovo Monastery, and the monastery "St. Valentine's Day. Kirik and Yulita. In Asenovgrad. Outside the funds in Annex No 1, art. 6 of the State Budget Act 2015 by Decree of the Council of Ministers are separated a total of 2 million. $125,000. lv. for renovation activities in the Troyan, Basarbovski and medieval Kardzhali Monasteries, also for the churches in Ahtopol and Vladaya. Additional expenditure in the budget of the Council of Ministers was also approved at a total of 850 thousand. lv. for the Crnogor Monastery and the Muldav Monastery for the repair of the cathedral of the Western and Middle-European Diocese in Berlin. In addition to repairs and construction activities for the needs of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, 383 thousand were spent. lv. to support the activities of Bulgarian ministers abroad. The Bulgarian Orthodox Church is given the opportunity to be a beneficiary in measure 3.2.2. of the Rural Development Program and 104 sites have taken advantage of this opportunity. To the question of what funds are envisaged and for which temples will be set aside for repair, maintenance and bringing them into a position to perform Christian rites in 2016: According to the State Budget Act voted in the Forty-third National Assembly, the state subsidy for registered religions in the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 amounts to 4 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. Its distribution by beneficiaries can be seen in Annex 1 to art. 6, para. 4 of the State Budget Act. The allocation for these funds will be made this year, according to the requests received for the necessary resources by the religions and after the presentation of the corresponding quantitative-value accounts certifying those needs. To your question, what is the total number of places to perform religious rites of religion in relation to the provision of art. 6, Annex No 1, t. 10 of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 of the Department of the Ministry of Religions was entrusted to the Council of Ministers with the task of developing a file and register of religious temples of all religious institutions registered in the country by the Sofia City Court. By October 30th. The prepared filing and electronic register cover all registered by the Sofia City Court religious institutions at this time. Orthodox temples... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll take the line to finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u81	There are many questions, I understand you, Prime Minister. There is no way within 3 minutes, there are already 6, to answer all the questions that are asked. Line, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u82	I will allow myself to take this line only and only to give you the opportunity to develop your answer. This is extremely important to me because let us be clear that we are talking about over 6 million. Bulgarians who belong to the traditional Bulgarian religion of Eastern Orthodox Christians. What you have said to me sounds encouraging to me that the government looks after the Eastern Orthodox religion, especially what you have stated under measure 3 of the State Fund............................... which enables the repair and maintenance of the Eastern Orthodox temples. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u83	A hole, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, to your question what is the total number of places to perform religious rites, I continue: The Orthodox temples in the country are 8000; the Catholic temples, monasteries, churches and chapels are 103; the Muslim mosques, meschids and tecchids are about 1400; the synagogues are 10, but in only two of them the religious services are carried out in the cities of Burgas and Sofia; the temples of the Armenian Orthodox Church are 19, of them 6 chapels; the temples of the Protestant denominations are about 250, and the temples of the Union of the Churches of the Seventh Day are 118. What is disturbing and for which we are ready, of course, and we have had a conversation with our esteemed Patriarch, with the Holy Synod, is the Church of Alexander Nevsky. You know, or who doesn't know, she's in pretty bad shape. From what the MRB and the experts are looking at right now, it's going to take about 20 million. BGN, to make it look as it should, because many of its bearing foundations and leaks, which they have there, are damaging the church itself. We have spoken, we have made a commitment, we are ready, and I think that no one in this Parliament will mind when we are ready with the reconstruction and strengthening project, and we will share these funds as well. We promised it to the Holy Synod, we just really want it, because it's a big repair, to be done according to all the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u85	Thank you, Mr. Borisov, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions and answers of the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. First will ask his question the people representative Svetoslav Belemezov on the effectiveness and competence of the territorial sectors in fighting organised crime at the General Directorate of Organized Crime. We're listening, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u86	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After the entry into force of the new Act on the Ministry of Interior, published in the Official Journal of the European Union, issue 53 of 27 June 2014, and the Law amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act, published in the Official Journal of the European Union, issue 14 of 20 February 2015, the General Directorate for Combating Organized Crime was restored as an independent and specialized main structure in the structure of the Ministry of Interior. In the provision of art. 6, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Interior are established territorial units, territorial sectors for the fight against organised crime, which are directly subordinate to the DGBOP. The same shall have material competence in the order of art. 6, para. 5 of the Management Rules of the Ministry of Interior, and on a proposal from the Director of DGBOP, the Minister of Interior ordered them to appoint areas of action. In this regard, Deputy Prime Minister, my question to you is as follows: has your order been issued to determine the territorial scope of action of the TSBOP in the country and, if there are, what judicial areas are their borders in relation to district or appeals, given their functional competence to investigate pre-trial proceedings brought to the specialized criminal court? In this regard, how many of the CSOs are created in the country and what is their effectiveness after their creation? How many self-discovered crimes and pre-trial proceedings against individuals as a result of the operational and search activities carried out by each TSBOP to the local Directorate of Organized Crime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u88	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Belemezov, with my order in force from 12 May 2015 are defined the areas for action of the territorial units of the General Directorate of Organized Crime. They have 18 numbers and have functional competence throughout the country. Investigative police officers in their group are working to solve crimes involving only organised criminal activities of local and transnational structures. As regards the interaction of the territorial structures of DGBOP with the judicial authorities, I inform you that the Specialized Prosecutor's Office, according to its competence under art. 411a, al. 1 and 2 of the PPC and subject to the provision of art. 39 of the Ministry of Interior Act is the only structure that entrusts activities to DGBOP and its territorial units. The pre-trial proceedings by territorial structures to combat organised crime for the period 1 March 2015 were 67. Of these, the newly formed ones, after the return of DGDP to the Ministry of Interior, are 19, the pre-trial proceedings sent to the Special Prosecutor's Office are 24, with the opinion of the Court of Justice The charges filed under art. 321 of the 2015 Criminal Code are against 115 persons in total. The operations carried out by DGBOP in 2015 were 115 in total and the employees of the territorial structures carried out 27 separate operations and participated in 33 joint operations on materials of DGBOP and other structures in the Ministry of Interior. Regarding the effectiveness of the work of DGBOP and its territorial structures, I could highly appreciate it, given the fact that it works effectively in the second half of the year with twice the size of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. Dear Mr. Belemezov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u90	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. My question about the territorial sectors in DGBOP is extremely important, as the analysis of their activities in any case gives a very objective idea of the overall effectiveness of the Directorate General for Organized Crime and its functional responsibilities are those of direct stability in the country, because in fact their main role is prevention and prevention of organised crime. I would like to ask you, as you have praised the activities of DGBOP as a whole: is there in fact any obstacles during this 6-month period that you are referring to which obstacles limit the overall functionality of the Directorate General in the operational and search direction? I mean, with the newly adopted amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, which have been promulgated since February this year, specifically in art. 39, para. 2 shall be given the possibility or, rather, limited to the possibility where, in the case of information initially received, acquired or provided by foreign partner services, if there is no evidence of an organised criminal group, a number of operational and operational technical activities for documenting and proving such organised criminal activity should be carried out. This, on the one hand, opens a very wide perimeter of time in which practically DGBOP loses its direct functionality. How, according to this poor wording in the newly adopted Law, is it actually possible to manage the service more effectively during this 6-month period that you have bet?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Madame Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for the duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u92	Dear Mr. Belemezov, in addition to the organizational and technical obstacles that existed during this period in connection with the restructuring of the Directorate General correctly point out its limitations in art. 39, para. 2 for this in the project which we have drawn up and will recently submit to the National Assembly we are proposing an amendment which will give more opportunities for work to DGBOP in the investigation mainly in the initial phase.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. We move on to the next issue by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov on protection policies and provision of police authorities in specialized homes for temporary accommodation of foreigners and distribution centers in the country with individual protective and protective means. Here you are, dear Mr. Belemezov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Under the conditions of migration pressure and refugee wave at the Department of Migration, the Ministry of Interior operates several specialized homes and distribution centers of an indoor type, where the main function and activity is organizing the temporary accommodation of foreigners in the country. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: what are the security policies of the Ministry of Interior regarding long-term care for the prevention of infections and diseases in homes and distribution centres? What is the number of these places in the country and the number of police officers involved in their security? On the other hand: Are personal protective and protective equipment provided for police officers operating a public service in these specialized homes and if your answer is "to": what are they and what is their quantity for each specialized home for temporary accommodation of foreigners or distribution center in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u96	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Belemezov, there are two special homes for temporary accommodation of foreigners in Sofia and in the city of Lyubimets, and one distribution center in the town of Elhovo. The house in Sofia was opened in 2006 with a capacity of 400 accommodations. For security, accommodation, removal and other activities in the home are employed as guards, interviewers, operatives and in countering illegal migration 150 employees, administrative and logistical insurance and support staff are employed 44 employees. The home in Lyubimets was opened in 2011 with a capacity of 300 seats. 103 employees are employed for the same activities. For administrative and logistical insurance and support staff are employed 42 people. In 2013 the distribution centre in Elhovo with 240 seats was exposed in connection with increased migration pressure. Its activities are provided by posted 38 staff from "National Police" (National Police), 13 employees from the two special homes of the Directorate of Migration (Migration) as guards, interviewers, operational duty and countering illegal migration. For administrative and logistical insurance and support personnel 15 employees of an employment contract are employed. 24-hour medical care and psychological assistance are provided in all homes for foreigners and staff of specialists of the Medical Institute at the Ministry of Interior and the Institute of Psychology at the Ministry of Interior. A thorough medical examination is also carried out when a foreigner is admitted to the Centers of the Department of Migration and when serious illness or infectious diseases are detected, foreigners are placed in the medical services in the homes and distribution center. If necessary, sick persons are accommodated in a hospital at the Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior or in hospitals by district. A daily cleaning and disinfection of all premises in the centres with disinfectant and bactericidal preparations shall be carried out. The necessary soaps and disinfectants in the service rooms shall be provided to maintain personal hygiene. All employees are provided with personal protective equipment - single-use masks, disposable gloves. The available quantities are currently 3400 masks and 45 700 pairs of gloves total for the homes and distribution center. The homes are loaded monthly with the necessary precautions, always maintaining the required reserve of individual protective equipment for daily work. Periodic checks shall be carried out for compliance with hygiene and health standards by employees of the sector of State Health Control at the Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior. In addition, employees periodically conduct disinfection of all premises in the centers. An organisation has been established to alert and take measures in the event of an epidemiological situation. In 2014 and 2015, all willing employees in the centers were vaccinated against hepatitis A. All employees of the Directorate of Migration shall undergo each year preventive examinations at the Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior and shall be appointed and carried out the relevant studies. In addition, I can say that Minister Moskov and I are in constant contact. We had several preliminary meetings last year to establish the way in which we can inform ourselves as quickly as possible about the identified cases or the problems in securing the protective means. This mechanism is currently working quite well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. You will not take advantage of your right to a replica, respectively, of the doppelganger. We are moving on to a third issue from the National Representative Angel Naydenov regarding the construction of an obstruction facility along our border with the Republic of Turkey. Here you are, dear Mr. Naydenov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam and Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, my question relates to the construction of obstruction facilities along the border with Turkey. I find it unnecessary to argue why I ask this question. If we have previously agreed that one of the major security problems, but not only of Bulgaria at the moment, one of the major challenges is related to the refugee flow and therefore to all the risks and concerns that we associate with the refugees, then so much more realistic and significant this sounds for this year, because there is no prospect that a solution will soon be found to the problems that cause the refugee flow, the migration wave to Europe. My question, Madam Minister, has three parts. The first part is related to which companies are entrusted the implementation, respectively what is the achieved price per linear kilometer, and when we can expect the completion of the facilities. Why am I asking about the companies? Because about a year ago, here in plenary, the Prime Minister said he wanted to find a procedure for quick selection of companies to be entrusted with and to be selected as performers. The National Assembly responded with a change in the Public Procurement Act and the implementation was directly entrusted to relevant contractors. Secondly, interest in the price of a linear kilometer will never subside, so it is good to know at what prices individual sections in the three districts are being executed. Thirdly, about two months ago, you responded to a question you pointed out that around the end of November about 19 km of this facility were built. It is good to know within this year when to expect the final completion of this facility. Does that make sense? Of course. Again a year ago, the Prime Minister estimated that seven times the refugee flow was reduced in the areas where there was a protective facility. In other words, it is quite reasonable to expect an answer to the question in plenary when will the safeguard facility be completed as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Naydenov, the partition facility along our southern border has proven its effectiveness. This is reflected in the assessment of the influx of refugees at our borders before it was built. It has a protective effect. Following the dynamics of the different streams, it is seen that where it is built, there is a reduction in trials, there is a shift in critical places. So we are very closely monitoring and designing the process of building this facility. You know that in practice a total length of 132.6 km was determined, and the facility falls into the territory of three administrative areas: Haskovo, where it is 33.6 km long, for Yambol region the length of the facility is 35 km, for Burgas region the length is 64 km. Actually, the hardest precinct is the longest. The activities for the construction of the facilities of the adjoining field road in 2015 were financed by the Decree of the Council of Ministers of 19 June 2015 amounting to 30 million. lv. in the case of 60 million claimed. The amount was distributed between the three districts. You can get acquainted with all contracts for building the facility that are published on the website of the respective district managers. This condition was settled under art. 5, para. 2 of Decree No 55 of the Council of Ministers of 12 March 2015 I would like to present to your attention a few details. These are the five differences in the construction of the current facility compared to what the Bulgarian Army built in 2014. Currently, the facility is fully galvanized by all elements, unlike before what was built, for which there is monitoring that there is already damage from the climate conditions. Now the right fence is thicknessed ø 4, unlike the already built, which is thickness 1.8. All approaches to the facility are currently being built until roads and approaches have been built in 2014. This is the second line we've been working on. In this way we support construction and security, because the presence of people who work there also has a protective effect. At the moment, three rows of barbed wire rolls are bet while in the previous facility they were in two rows. For the entire length of the facility at the moment, the contracts of all contractor companies provide warranty service for five years. This means that we will have quality security and we can have claims to performers for a longer period of time. Due to the complex and crossed terrain in Burgas region, the district manager has concluded contracts with three different companies that build the facility and the road to it in three different sections. There is a contract with the company "AB Invest" Ltd, for the sub-division of the region of GPU Malko Tarnovo, group Malko Tarnovo from border pyramid 1 to border pyramid 13. The second contract was concluded with "Patstroy Burgas" Ltd. for sub-division in the area of GPU Malko Tarnovo and a group of Zvezdetz from the border pyramid 65 to the border pyramid 87. The third contract was concluded with the company "Bulbenia" Ltd for sub-division from the GPU region Sredets from the border pyramid 87 to the border pyramid 123. For Haskovo district there is a contract with ET "Metalik Ivan Mihaylov" "Plovdiv," for the construction of the facility and contract with the state enterprise "Transport construction and recovery" "Sofia." For the construction of the road for Yambol district, the governor has concluded a contract with the state enterprise "Transport construction and reconstruction" and "Geostroyijing." If we had kept the conditions and parameters that were set at the previous section, which was built, the calculation shows that the price would have been 60 lv. lower, given the quality and parameters we put in. The design is done with a view to the terrain and planning of the following activities, and of course with an assessment of the risk of penetration in certain locations. We work continuously, including willingly, if necessary, to redesign some sections with a view to their swift implementation. Currently there are delays in the part of Burgas, but there the planning itself began later because the terrain, as you probably know, is extremely difficult. We expect a further second part of the funding. In this sense, the pace of construction also depends on the rate of funding.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. Dear Mr. Naydenov, will you take advantage of the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you and I have no differences in our assessment of the benefits of the protection facility. I am sure that the vast majority of the MPs in the plenary also have no distinction. I am convinced of its benefit also after the first wave of negative attitude, including, of course, among our European partners. We see that this is a practice that is already followed by many countries, including the construction of similar facilities somewhere defined as fences in a number of countries that have experienced the pressure of the refugee flow. In this sense, of course, I share the assessment that you have stated. I don't know the firms, and that's not what I care about. The question was to know in plenary how the decision of the National Assembly was implemented and which are the companies that will implement the separate sections. You still didn't answer my question what the price has been achieved. It does not matter that somewhere perhaps it is mentioned on the websites of district administrations, I have asked the question to you. However, what you are telling me is that the second part of this amount is expected.. the first part was 60 million, thirty are spent, therefore about 60 million are expected, and about one million is the cost of a linear kilometer. Regardless of what the differences are with the previous protective device, this is a price that is nearly four times higher. The price at which the army built the security facility is about 250 thousand. lv. It's a linear kilometer away. In both cases, that is, when the army was carrying out the security facility, and now the contracting authority is the Ministry of Interior. The contracting authority and, accordingly, the structure that manages this facility is again the Ministry of Interior. The project under which the protective facility is implemented shall be carried out on the basis of an assignment of the Ministry of Interior. In other words, the differences in this sense matter, but this is anyway a choice and result of the decision of the Ministry of Interior. I seriously doubt that these differences set four times the price per linear kilometer. Of course, this is already an issue that we are yet to discuss when we finally get the security facility completed. It's nice to hear, though, if you take the floor for the backdrop, when this facility will be completed. I realize the difficulties in individual areas because we have faced these problems. When, however, should we expect the facility to be completed, built and handed over to the Ministry of Interior in a ready-made form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. Madame Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, please come in for the duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u104	Contractors of construction are the district governments. The planned amount for the first part is a total of 60 million. lv. I can tell you the exact numbers when we report the execution. I would very much like to have ready facilities built up by the end of March, but all this depends, as I said, on the rate of funding. We will have different types of sections for those for which there are already built roads for those not yet. This is also the main difference in the price of the road construction, which is no less valuable than the fence itself. This is extremely much reflected at the final price, but ultimately creates greater sustainability, as well as the character, technical requirements of the included materials.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions for Ivaylo Kalfin "Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy." . The first question is from the MP Borislav Iglev on measures to meet the demands of protesting mothers. Here you are, Mr. Iglev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u106	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues. About a month ago, we witnessed the fair demands and protests of the mothers, through which they addressed us the MPs, and to you the cabinet. In this protest, mothers demanded more money for their children. They insisted on increasing children's supplements and obtaining them from all children, providing places for all children in municipal gardens and nurseries, also for more flexible working hours. At the same time, there are alarming trends in Bulgaria: reduction of birth rates, we have negative population growth, more and more delaying the birth of children. Therefore, support for mothers and fulfillment of their demands should not be postponed. I personally stand by their demands because I believe they are absolutely justified. I know the government has a strategy to deal with the demographic crisis. As we see at the beginning of the parliamentary season, all parliamentary groups mentioned the problem of the demographic crisis. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: what measures will be taken to meet the demands of mothers in 2016 and will they be laid down for implementation in the new demographic strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u107	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iglev, the problem you are putting is important to both you and to me and to our entire society, because the topic related to the resource that the country gives away and the conditions it creates for raising children is undoubtedly one of the most important in our society. First of all, we don't have to think and assume that we're going from a zero point. Until now, a number of parliaments, governments have allocated funds, made policies, implemented various measures to support motherhood and parenthood in general, and today we have a system that works. It is financed by over 1 billion. lv. public funds. I will only mention the large feathers: 570 million is the money with the ten types of aid for children, of which 4 have an income criterion, 6.. they do not have; over 300 million is funds related to temporary disability benefits due to pregnancy and childbirth; 114-115 million are near benefits for raising a small child and adoption and so on. That's just one part of the measure. In the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund there are specific procedures which are also financed and so on. Is it very or is it very small, obviously not enough that there is to see a truly generous policy for babysitting and raising children such as there are in many European countries. Of course, we should also compare ourselves with the various measurers of the economy and the social system in our country. What could be done and what is mandatory, in my opinion, is to clarify the meaning, the direction of politics. It is obvious that we are extending within the limits of the possible budget and the economy. What's the most important thing? For me, it is most important to help working parents to those who combine raising children with their work. This means to significantly increase funds. This goes through municipalities, for accommodation in kindergartens. Currently, just under 83% of children are covered in kindergartens. But if we look for early coverage, if we look for the practice that there are in a number of developed countries, the municipality takes charge of kindergarten in the rich countries, it is a significant resource, but in any case there must be efforts and there, I think, is a priority for the placement of children in school. A second priority, which is extremely important, even I usually put it, and first of all, are the means to provide parents with children with disabilities. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There, too, no matter how much it is done, it is not enough, as there really is no need for both the parent and the family and the children of much better care, although I can give you data again, as in the context of this procedure I do not have the opportunity, there is also a significant resource going there. So the question is to sort out the priorities that are most important. This year it's expanding...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u109	Mr. Minister, you can use the back then, since...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u110	Just one sentence, Mr. Chairman, if I may? The President Yanaki Stoylov: All right, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u111	This year the scope and amounts of monthly aid for children and the budget also provide for an increase in the funds paid to foster families for raising children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u112	Thank you. Mr. Iglev, you have an opportunity for a line. While you're coming, I'll just use it to tell the Minister that there are separate municipalities in which the fees for kindergartens are being paid. Let this practice be explored, although it is rather an exception to a gesture. Here you go, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your word. Since we mentioned the municipalities by both Minister Kalfin and you, I am telling you that in Haskovo municipality this problem was very big because the fees of kindergartens were one of the most expensive in Haskovo municipality. Personally, I stood next to the mothers, and we protested to get rid of them. This was in the previous government of the previous mayor. Our municipal councillors have proposed to the new mayor fees for kindergartens to be reduced and this has happened. It is also very good to make a dialogue with municipalities, for an exact fixed fee for kindergartens and for taking part of the fee from municipalities. I also think that the mother's demands are quite justified. You had your priorities right, and you said it really took a lot of money. But in this direction, in order to put priorities in place, it is necessary to make a conversation with the Prime Minister, the Finance Minister, to give more money to mothers. After all, this is the future of Bulgaria - our children. Since we have this problem and we discuss it every day in Parliament, I think it's normal to pay more attention. It's a really big problem. I hope you have a good dialogue with the Finance Minister, with the Prime Minister, to give more money to the children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u114	Thank you. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I accept your recommendation, Mr. Iglev. When we adopt the budget for next year, I think we should really pay extra attention. Again, I say: society separates and these are not insurance funds, they are budget subsidies, they are spending not a lot of money at the moment. Yeah, they're not enough. It takes more than that. It's important to put priorities in order. I am pleased that you share those I mentioned to help parents with seriously ill children and working parents. I hope that next year, and with the help of Parliament, we will be able to take further steps. For this year, I have already mentioned what steps have been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u116	Thank you. The next question to Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the practical application of the provisions of art. 114a of the Labour Code governing labour contracts for short-term seasonal agricultural work. You have the opportunity to develop your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy! In the Official Journal of the European Union, No. 54 of July 17 was promulgated the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code, which was adopted by the Forty-third National Assembly on 2 July, which introduced the labor contracts for short seasonal work under art. 114a of the Labor Code. In practice, from 21 July, employers, registered farmers may conclude day-to-day contracts for professions requiring no special qualification for the acquisition of fruit, vegetables, pink and lavender crops. For now, 5-6 months later after their introduction and after the active agricultural season is over, many questions arise in the implementation of the provisions of this article. 114a of the Labor Code. The fact is that day-to-day employment contracts have brought farmers and seasonal workers into a complex relationship. Employers in the sector say they are wasting valuable time filling out daily documentation, and they cannot rely on secure labour. The problem with the day-to-day contracts is the biggest where the number of these contracts is the largest, namely in the districts of Plovdiv, Stara Zagora, Pazardzhik, Targovishte and Blagoevgrad. In December last year we witnessed discontent and protests against these contracts by farmers and mayors of settlements in the Pazardzhik region. Then they announced that they started a petition for their cancellation, said they were ready for protest actions if the situation did not change. [[National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov spoke with Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u118	Please don't interfere with the questioner.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u119	In this regard, Minister, I ask you the following questions, which are of one common purpose: do you think there are experts from your ministry-led problems in the implementation of the provisions of art. 114a of the Labor Code? What is the financial effect of the application of the provisions of this Article of the Labour Code and does it justify the difficulties and problems created by farmers and seasonal workers or do you think the cancellation of art. 114a or his serious review?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u120	Mr. Minister, you have an answer in three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, as promised, we are preparing an analysis of how artwork worked. 114a "These are the daily labour contracts in agriculture this year. The numbers that I can tell you start from July 20th, this is about the middle of the agricultural season to work by the end of the year. The campaign ended early. 80,999 contracts were purchased. Of them as unused are returned 4763, which means that somewhere for about 86,000 contracts have actually been paid, paid and registered respectively. We had several conversations, including last week at the Ministry of Agriculture with producers and there are ideas next year how the procedure could be eased. We are basically preparing some changes in the information system so that farmers can fill out these contracts remotely, not bring in recurring names, so that they can be introduced easier and so on to ease them. The question you're asking about the meaning of these contracts? Yes, I saw, there is a mayor of a village in Pazardzhiska municipality who also met with a deputy minister, showed up in the media and said: "Men make these contracts difficult for me. But let's see what the other alternative is. The other alternative is to make employment contracts with people who hire in the field. It turns out that many farmers, hiring people for one day, going through the village in the morning and hiring 20 or 30 people, does not even imagine that these people should be provided, have the appropriate working conditions, provided, briefing, insurance and so on. So if they don't have daily contracts, they have to conclude a long-term or other form of payment that is still linked to labour law. So the alternative to daily contracts is not just to have nothing. The alternative is to conclude a much more complex procedure that binds and aggravates farmers. I do not think that by doing the analysis... we, of course, and the Commission, have agreed to do so in terms of demographic problems, labour and social policy. I think this was a useful practice, which is in the interests of all people working with employment insurance, counts as an insurance internship with insurance for risks that are assumed. On the other hand, the employer's payment is not in the grey sector or in the grey economy. We're processing the data now, let's see that 86,000. Hard-working how many people there were. We found weaknesses in the publicity, still a lot of people were worried about making them. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Because they were afraid of losing their social package and so on. Once we summarize these data, we will be ready for a comprehensive analysis, but the initial assessment is that last year this practice was useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u122	Thank you. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Don't realize I'm against these contracts. Thank you for your answer. There is no way now, in my reply to you, that I do not mention some problems that these contracts lead to. This is that it is virtually impossible to implement the provision fully, that its labour contracts only make it difficult with bureaucracy producers, that the documents themselves often cannot be properly shaped, as many employees in one day do not have ID cards or other documents, also do not have... In fact, these workers are working with more than one employer a day, all the problems that stand to be solved by employers, farmers who conclude these contracts. That's one side. The other side is that I continue to argue that for the first time in the Bulgarian legislation we introduced a contract of employment which is not recognised as a service. This is the deprivation of the working of all the positives that brings him this accumulation of the service.. class of service, leave, long-term unemployment benefits and so on. Moreover, it is a contract that guarantees no employment and no income. Thus, the proposed texts do not provide guarantees for workers' rights, remain pending answers to questions about the normalization of labour and guaranteeing the payment of the work, work and pay on weekends and holidays, work clothes, personal protective equipment, training and briefings, transport and so on, and so on, do not continue to specify. In a written question to you and to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, I asked for an analysis of what you say you are cooking, but I do not know for what reasons it was returned to me by the President of the National Assembly. Actually, I know the reasons, but I don't think they're justified. An analysis is extremely necessary and there we have to say [[the President signals that time has run out]] clearly, precisely and categorically what can remain, what must be removed to facilitate these farmers, and the workers themselves. I look forward to such an analysis of the effectiveness of the implementation of the provisions of art. 114a of the Labour Code and then let's go to solving these problems, otherwise there is hardly anyone in this room, and outside the room, who is against these treaties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u124	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. For the doppelganger, Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, we are currently preparing the analysis and even a commitment has been made and, if you wish it, but in any case, I will insist that he join the Commission in Parliament. One thing we need to clarify is that these contracts are optional. If the employer wants them, they will conclude them, but the other alternative is to conclude another kind of contract, which is much more demanding. I said we'd try to ease as much as we can with electronic changes. The fact is that in many places you say: "The worker does not have an identity card. Well, yeah, well, if anything happens, don't give it to yourself, God, with this field worker or at work, this guy won't have insurance, everyone, including social services, those who are registered there, has ID cards. I think this thing's decided as long as people get used to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u126	Thank you. This ended the answers of Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin. We are moving on to the questions that will be addressed to Nikolai Nenchev, Minister of Defence. He will answer a question of the MP Angel Naydenov regarding the participation of Bulgarian Army soldiers in guarding the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. You're welcome to develop the matter, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is about the participation of soldiers in the Bulgarian Army in guarding the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. I am in a hurry to say immediately, Mr. Minister, that I am among the people who have always demonstrated that it is legitimate and justified the use of soldiers from the military formations of the Bulgarian Army in support of the efforts to guard and protect the Bulgarian border. Of course, I make the arrangement with the leading role of the Ministry of Interior. Therefore, there are enough texts in the Defence and Armed Forces Act and in the defined missions of the Bulgarian Army and respectively in the amended Order of the Council of Ministers, which defines the strategic sites and related activities. Let's say for all of us that the state border is defined as part of the critical infrastructure and therefore the activities of security and conservation as a strategic activity. There are various forms of possible participation of Bulgarian servicemen. Speaking of servicemen, let us say that Bulgaria is not the only country that uses or would use servicemen and, secondly, that there are no objections from the European Commission regarding national measures when they involve the use of military formations. With regard to the various forms of possible participation in the understanding that the Bulgarian Army has enough abilities and skills, however, my question, Mr. Minister, is aimed at this: from which formations on what principle would the servicemen be designated to be sent to participate in the security measures at the border? Secondly, is specialized training envisaged? Even with the understanding that they have the necessary abilities [[the President signals that time has run out]] It is nice to have appropriate specialized training in view of this specific activity for the Bulgarian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u128	Thank you. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Naydenov, it is obvious that with regard to the participation of the Bulgarian Army in security of our borders we have no differences. In an attempt to deal with the refugee wave, a number of European countries, as you have already mentioned, have committed themselves to assisting law enforcement forces in guarding their borders. In Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence, respectively the Bulgarian Army, has been assisting the Ministry of Interior in security at the state border since April last year. At the same time, thanks to the built protection facility that you have asked a question about, we are very much able to prevent uncontrolled entry of refugees into the country and prevent a possible humanitarian crisis. And so far, of course, servicemen are engaged in security at our borders. In the types of armed forces and in the formations for which it is intended to participate, assistance plans have been developed. It should be borne in mind that, depending on the tasks performed, for which assistance is requested by the Border Police Directorate General, a different number of servicemen can be activated regarding and mainly from the formations located near the respective border and we are doing so, of course, in order to facilitate both the servicemen and save some money. The aid plans shall specify which formations and what tasks must be carried out in the specific regions. Specifically, your question. The participation of the Second Mechanized Brigade, the Fourth Artillery Regiment, the 55th Engineering regiment, the Centre for the Training of Professionals in Sliven, the Third Separate Mechanized Battalion, the formation of the 68th Brigade. The plans, dear Mr. Naydenov, are studied and absorbed by the servicemen and events are being held to ensure their implementation. The activities envisaged in carrying out the tasks of the plans do not require specialized training. Rules of action, of course, are defined [[the President signals that time has run out]] who clearly regulate the behavior of the servicemen and the use of force. Mr. Chairman, if I may, one sentence. At my disposal, it is important that I mention this, especially attention is paid to the rules on the welfare of refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u130	Thank you. Mr. Naydenov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, you rightly note in the statements that are being made, and, of course, in the actions that are being taken by you as Minister of Defense, I see steps that meet my approval as well. I find that the high level of readiness, including ahead of specific cooperation, is extremely necessary especially at this time when we continue to assess the refugee wave as one of the most serious risks to our security. I find it very good that the necessary preliminary measures have been taken in relation to planning and, accordingly, in the specific definition of rules that would be used by the Bulgarian servicemen if their participation was required, including in joint patrols with the forces of the Ministry of Interior. Of course, it is good to know, in addition to having separate plans of different formations, is there a general plan in terms of how the forces of the various military formations of the Bulgarian Army would use? For example, an update of the plans of Land Forces or accordingly of individual formations, as far as these things have not been planned in advance, they appear now. It is nice to be laid down as a whole in the planning of training, and respectively in the educational process, within the framework of the Bulgarian Army. Secondly, there are countries that have already been involved and I would like to ask: is practical training envisaged and an assessment of the application of what has already been acquired as skill and as practical actions? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For example, at the disposal of the General Staff of the Hungarian Army, a comprehensive exercise was carried out using military formations which are intended to participate in security at the border of the Hungarian State. Is there something like this coming up? This will be a very serious test that will give a better idea of the skills learned by the servicemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u132	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u133	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Naydenov, I would first of all like to thank you for your understanding and attitude to this issue. We are involved and will continue to participate in this process carefully, because the issues and problems related to the refugee wave are extremely important for our national security. We hold periodic meetings at which we analyse the situation, the participation of our soldiers. I get daily information about how many servicemen, where, what kind of equipment we're involved with. We are ready to respond at any particular moment. As for the instructions and the preparation of common plans, of course, we have them, but perhaps in the future we will also need to have a very clear specific about this in each particular case of which formation, how many servicemen and how they will participate. Thank you again for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question you will answer is from the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov on discrimination in the legal framework concerning the calculation of the insurance internship and the time served by the alumni in the average sergeant's military schools. Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my present question is provoked by complaints brought to me by the graduates of the Mid-Sergeant's Air School. The problem, which refers to the complaints of these employees of yours, is to the inadequacy of the provision of art. 44, para. 1 of the Regulation on pensions and internship, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 10 March 2000, establishing a prerequisite for unjustified unequal treatment of graduates who took their military oath and committed their military service at one age. The situation we are talking about is this. According to the current Act, Article 3 of the Act on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Here's the situation. Alumni of the Mid-Sergeants Air School Georghi Benkovski, as well as other military sergeant schools, enter the school at the age of 15, but take an oath at the age of 17, with which they practically enter into regular military service. This is also evident from the content of art. Art. 149, Art. 149 152 in conjunction with Art. 146, t. 3 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. From the time of his military oath the alumni of the sergeant schools, most of all I am talking about the sergeants who studied at the Mid-Sergeants' Air School, Georghi Benkovski, participated both in the armed guards and in the defence of military sites concerning Bulgaria's national security, equal to all other soldiers, students and cadets. However, art. 44, para. 1 of the Regulation on pensions and internships excludes the time in which those schoolmasters were regularly engaged in military service from the time of taking up their military duties and taking their military oath until the age of age. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this regard, my question is as follows: will you take appropriate measures to initiate the removal of the legal prerequisites for unfair treatment, i.e. discrimination in the relevant art. 44, para. 1 of the Regulation on pensions and internship adopted by the Council of Ministers on 10 March 2000, and by what time will the measures be taken on this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u136	Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, I assume this is a misunderstanding, but I hope in this case we can clarify the matter. The regulation on pensions and internships is not applicable at the moment. It concerns the recognition of an internship only of persons who, by that date, have been or have been trained as students and schoolmasters after their age. I assume you take into account the fact that the provision in question was in accordance with art. 97, para. 1 of the already repealed Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to which all men, citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, fit for military service without distinction of race, nationality, religion, education, social origin and marital status, who have reached 18 years of age, are subject to military service. In the same way, according to art. 120, para. 4 of the repealed Law, I stress, for defence and the armed forces, training in military schools of persons who are underage shall be carried out after the conclusion of a training contract which shall be signed by them with the consent of their parents or trustees. A contract for personnel military service with the trainee shall be concluded on the age of the age. Under that provision, minors do not carry out or have not performed personnel military service regardless of their admission to schools. However, it was only after the age of age that its implementation began, respectively, the accumulation of the relevant internship. Both provisions of the repealed law set the same condition for taking into account the recruitment and personnel military service, namely the non-age. In this regard, I believe that there are no prerequisites for discrimination against the provision of art. 44, para. 1 of the Regulation on pensions and internships by the age of the persons I mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u138	Thanks for the answer. Mr. Karakachanov, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, this is precisely about those people who graduated from secondary sergeant schools, and in this case, the average sergeant's air school, Georgy Benkovski, before the amendments of the Law, I speak before 10 November. These are people who are still in the service. And that's where you get this gap. Perhaps, as you said, the old, new Law... These are things that happen in Bulgaria regularly. It is appropriate to pay attention to the particular case. Here, I'm pointing out where this is going. It's about servicemen in Lower Metropolis, people who are putting this real problem on the table. If this problem didn't exist, if it hasn't been dropped in any way, perhaps the problem still exists, this issue is from the beginning of December last year, that is, a little more than a month ago. So my appeal to you is in some way through the commander of the unit or through your representative who will be sent, or by you personally, to get acquainted with the problem in particular, because, once it is set, the problem exists to be resolved in order to ensure that the normal regime of work of the servicemen is assured that in the appropriate order they will receive their reward fairly after leaving the military service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u140	It will be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u141	Thank you. Mr. Minister has an appointment to check in. I understand that this is about the age of the age of age, and there should not be any differences there?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u142	For this one year.. from 17 to 18 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u143	No, he said in his reply that up to 18 years is calculated, but before that they are not subject to insurance. But let us be clear about this matter. This concludes the answers of Minister Nenchev and we move on to the questions that Todor Tanev will answer. The first question is from the MP Boyka Marinska about the participation of employees of the Ministry of Education and Science in projects of the Ministry. Mrs. Marinska, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u144	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! My question is about the involvement of Ministry staff in the Ministry's projects. For the past programming period, the Ministry of Education has been a direct beneficiary in direct grant procedures, implementing 50 projects worth 682 million. 243 thousand. BGN 846, according to a reference to the system of ISUN. The implementation of these projects was attended by staff of the Ministry of Interior, as well as external experts. You are facing the challenges of the new Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" for which it is necessary to improve the mechanisms for personnel provision in order to ensure quality expertise for the successful implementation of the Programme. In view of the facts presented, my question to you is as follows. What rules will the selection be subject to, i.e. the conditions, criteria and procedures for the designation of staff from the Ministry of Education and Foreign Affairs, which will be engaged in the management and implementation of projects, and what will this selection mechanism be better than the previous one? It is clear from the few information found that project managers are directorates of directorates at the Ministry of Education, while team members are usually employees of the Ministry of Education. Perhaps some of the projects also recruited external experts for the system. The question is how will this selection take place in the new programming period, how will you determine which of the employees to participate in the management and implementation of these projects and will any criteria be adopted, norms for determining such experts to participate in these projects? And how will the current mechanism be better than the previous one?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u146	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Marinska! In relation to the question referred for external experts in the draft operational programme, I shall inform you of the following. The Managing Authority recommends the provision and appointment of human resources to manage or implement the projects under the Operational Programme from 14th to 20th year. This, as we know, is the general directorate. It must, of course, be carried out in compliance with the procedures and regulations in labour law. As regards employees from the central and territorial administrations of the executive power in application of the provisions of art. 12 of the Decree of the Council of Ministers 119 of 2014. In this regard, the basic principles and procedures for the selection of the expert staff are detailed in all application guidelines and are laid down in the management for the implementation of the contract or orders for grant under priority axes 2 and 3 of OP NIR. As an example, specific texts which regulate the need to distribute activities and tasks between the team members of the project may be identified, depending on their professional experience and expertise, taking into account their own personal specific knowledge, skills and competences, particularly the attention has been increased. An important component is the professional experience in the field of the project proposal, as well as administrative experience or management skills. The application guidelines include a requirement for three years of proven minimum experience in organisation or management, or the implementation of a similar type of project activities at national or European level. The management for the implementation of contracts or grant orders under Priority Axiss 2 and 3 of OP NIR from 2014 to 2020 lays down additional circumstances relating to the recruitment and personnel provision procedures for the management and implementation of OP NIR projects which the managing authority recommends to comply with. These circumstances are designed to ensure the high professional expertise in the procedures for quality selection of human resources, both for management and for the implementation of the projects under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." I can add by myself that, in the style of the management of the Ministry that I run, we will in all such cases consult the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have a line, Mrs. Marinska? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u148	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. A further question that you might be able to answer today. The report, which was made during an online survey, shows extremely scarce public information about the projects implemented by the Ministry of Education, which is a serious problem and should not be repeated in the new programming period. In this sense, what does the Ministry of Education do to ensure the necessary and sufficient publicity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u149	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u150	Dear Mrs. Marinska, two orders have been issued so far to provide grants to finance project proposals with direct beneficiary Ministry of Education and Science in accordance with the provisions of Decree No 107 of 10 May 2014 of the Council of Ministers under the procedure The other is the career education system. Unfortunately, at this stage, there are only two. For now, 27 employees of the Ministry of Education and Science are included in the teams for implementation and management of the projects of competence. Leading experts from the Ministry of Education and Science have been appointed for the heads of project implementation and management teams. The question you are asking leads me to believe that, nevertheless, the General Directorate, which is the Managing Authority in this case, has not done enough work on public disclosure.............................................................................. I will take the necessary notes, we will do whatever is necessary in this case and thank you for the remark and for the observation you have shared with us that there is probably not enough information received. I didn't have that information until now, but I understand from the data that it's very likely that it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u151	We're done with that. The next question is from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev on the selection of external evaluators of project proposals for the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth." You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u152	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is related to the selection of external evaluators on project proposals under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." Mr. Minister, you know that at the end of November the deadline for presenting the first draft proposals on the already approved operations under this programme has expired, the recruitment of external evaluators for evaluation committees will assess the submitted projects. In view of the facts presented, my question is as follows: does the Ministry of Education and Science already have an approved selection procedure for external valuers to ensure their quality selection and what conditions and requirements should members of these evaluation committees meet? I would like to draw attention to the first axis. It is about research funds, which, as you know, are over 500 million. lv. This is the general budget. My question is in the context of the scandals over the past few years related to the ranked projects under the Fund of Science, you know about the thousands of SMS that young scientists sent to the Prime Minister. My question is: how will you guarantee through the evaluation committees and the selection of evaluators that this will not happen under the Operational Programme "Education and science for smart growth", especially in Axis 1 for research?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u153	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. You have the floor to answer the question, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u154	The answer is predestined by the question. The outrage in the Fund is systematic since its creation. Although there are many good procedures on it, there are so many that have not been carried out properly over the years, so it was somehow publicly unacceptable. For this reason, we have prepared a new one for the first time, which we hope is fulfilling everything that the Ministry of Finance did not once approve of in the fatal session of 2013. We've got $3 million. lv. To young scientists. We do not agree with some of the points we have received today. We will answer to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to have a stronger role and payment specifically for young people. As far as your question is concerned, we currently have four evaluation committees on procedures on which draft proposals have been submitted. At the end of December 2015, the work of two other evaluation committees was completed and members with voting rights were included in them by competence 13 assessors in accordance with the provisions of art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, t. 1 of Decree No 107 of the Council of Ministers, namely representatives of the state administration, who do not take office in the managing authority. The work under the procedures of the evaluation committees shall be carried out on the legal path established at the moment, without delay. I can add that external evaluators are located as follows: to support preschool education we have four external evaluators; on the next project, the Career and Career Service System we have five external evaluators; the Educational integration of the students; the four external evaluators; the building of conditions and resources for building and development of supporting environments. The Managing Authority is about to conduct a procedure for the selection of external valuers under the Public Procurement Act for the evaluation of projects under the first axis as soon as possible, as well as for the selection of external valuers for projects and proposals under Axis 2 and Axis 3. In this regard, we had to wait until the end of December 2015. The National Assembly formally adopted the new Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, published in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u155	Since time ends, if you want to say in one sentence. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Tanev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u156	Thank you for your reply, Mr. Minister. As far as I understand it, there has been some progress in the other axes and the administration is mainly relied on to carry out the relevant assessments, so with internal efforts. As for this axis of research and technological development, you will rely on external evaluators. You said you were going to make a public procurement. That is exactly the point of my question: what requirements will need to be set, what are these external evaluators, how will you choose this quality administrative capacity and through external evaluators, so that we can really ensure that what happened, once again I say, about the Research Fund, such as the re-classed, doubts in project evaluations, be avoided under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth"?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u157	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u158	In similar cases in the past, I was informed that there was no specific set of specific requirements. However, I am of the opinion that at this political moment it is very important that we have such lists and that they will be submitted to the Committee on Education and Science in the near future so that they can be agreed by the Members of the National Assembly. We will never impose such requirements in any form, and that is not our goal. The issue is in peace, I would call it, some comfort for the Ministry to do the rest of the very administrative work from now on. The Department of Science in Bulgaria, in the Ministry, including the management of the Research Fund, are extremely involved at the moment with the last strokes of the second approval, i.e. waiting for coordination by the Ministry of Finance, which is holding us back a little bit, as well as waiting for this Law. Absolutely nothing further will justify us if, at some point after the publication of the relevant regulations, we hope at last for a new session of the Fund's Scientific Studies.................we do not present to the Commission such proposals for serious legislative intervention and opinion of the people's representatives from the Commission, not only by the Ministry. So I take this responsibility before you here, from this high tribune, to have as much legitimacy as possible, except legitness. The points I read to you are not enough for me. They create legality, but I want them to be dressed with the mantle of legitimacy in order to be calm so much calm in the financing of science.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The word for questioning has the People's Representative Manol Genov on the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the demands of municipalities for consent to change the purpose of former school buildings with no need. Please ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam and Mr Minister, colleagues! My question is about the policy of the Ministry of Education on the demands of municipalities for consent to change the purpose of former school buildings with no need. Dear Minister, over the last decade demographic arguments and management decisions have caused our country to experience a wave of closures of schools in villages and smaller towns. Guilt to allow this has the Ministry of Education and the State as a whole. It was admitted to obvious chaos in the regulation how they can and who allows these empty buildings to quickly change their functionality and become useful again. The losses of this management negligence in recent years alone amount to hundreds, perhaps millions of levs. Municipalities are unable to manage these uninhabited properties, and the state stubbornly ties the hands of municipal government to realize investment attraction for new use of these buildings. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what are the real steps that the Ministry of Education and Science must implement in order for municipalities to finally start procedures for changing the purpose and use of these properties? What are the deadlines you make as a commitment, if you take one, to have clear action so as to stop this destructive process and be saved from complete destruction of these properties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u161	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the subject, I am pleased that there is a consideration of the fact that this has been a systematic sin in the past decades... a sin to both the school system and the children, to what they could and could not realize because the money runs out because of the conservation and even non-preservation of the properties we have. Many of them have fallen under the direct appetites of local Velmos. I apologize for the heavy word, but there is such a thing. We need to find the golden section, find the possibility of municipalities getting those buildings that we won't be able to use. On the other hand, the possibility of thousands of acres, for example in the mountains once given by someone, should now be taken in fact, for example, for photovoltaic parks, and could be used for something else. Therefore, this is where the state should intervene, not only the Ministry of Education. This is my request: if we're going to do it, then so be it! From what I've done so far, I can tell you this. However, art. 305, para. 1 of the Law on pre-school and school education reproduces the principle laid down in art. 45 of the Law on People's Education, in the following paragraph of art. 305 for the first time, the legislator provides for a mechanism to extend the possibility of the properties or parts of them being released as a result of the closure or conversion of public or municipal schools, kindergartens and centers for personal development support and so on, for which there is no public need to use them for educational, health, social or humanitarian activities, to be used for other activities. In order to apply the exemption, the cumulative fulfilment of the following conditions is necessary. Firstly, no public need to use them for educational, health, social and humanitarian activities has been identified within two years. Secondly, there is to be a positive opinion of the Minister of Education and Science prepared on the basis of the assessment of the educational needs in the municipality. Third, the settlement has a population of less than 5000. The norm of art. 305, para. 2 pursuant to § 60 shall enter into force from 1 January 2017. In the light of the foregoing, I believe that there is consistent action by the Ministry towards liberalising the possibilities for using the property of closed and converted schools, and by 2010, the norm of the former art. 45 of the former law requires that a material and technical base released as a result of the closure or conversion of schools be used only for the needs of the units of the education system. Now it is no longer the case, and we will use it, but we cannot use it without discussing with the MPs how to create the appropriate defence mechanisms, in the sense that municipalities are responsible enough to take...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u163	You'll have the right to a doppelganger, Mr. Minister, and then further the answer. You've been out of time. Mr. Genov, do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u164	Dear Minister, it is good to find the golden section in the interests of the state and in the interests of the municipalities. You're not moving the ball anywhere else! You have her. There is a committee at the Ministry that gives these opinions. I have a bunch of letters asking municipalities to change the purpose of such buildings. Shall I tell you what the Ministry's standard response is, copied tens and hundreds of times? I don't blame you, it's continuity. Be however you the apostle for these buildings ghosts that exist everywhere in the country, without frightening us with the interests of local Velimos, of course, when it comes to money and property, there are always interests, you do not need legislative changes. Make rules for the work of this committee and figure out how to protect state interest. Don't send me that someone's going to make photovoltaics and whatnot. It is also clearly stated in the current Law in art. 45a what and how it should happen. This needs management will! Let me ask you this. Have you been in a village or a town outside to see the ghostlike appearance of such a building for the last few months since you were a minister? These buildings, first of all, are a huge burden for the municipalities because they have to be guarded, and they have no money to manage them, even to protect them. They have become a free 24-hour shop for second-hand construction materials for some communities that we know there are in our country. I ask you from this tribune: will you come up with a mechanism to free the municipalities in the decisions they make and make to you? Tell me, did you go and see at least one of these buildings outside, because if you go inside, it might fall on your head? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u165	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mr. Minister's doppelganger. Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u166	Dear Mr. Genov, we will create and propose to you, but we will not decide on our own the rules for the release of buildings. We must share responsibility for this, because we can easily be accused of certain moves. The easiest thing to do is to blame a minister in this country. On this point, I cannot say more, except that we have no economic interest at all, and the economic interest is not private, it is money that can go for other educational purposes, to protect such buildings, to illuminate their courtyards. In that case, we want to get rid of them, there's no problem with that thing, only there must be some rules. [[Reply from the National Representative Manol Genov.]] The Municipals are very nice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u167	The new law is looking at this thing. [[Relations from the National Representative Manol Genov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u168	Can you not do any lines from the hall? Let's let the minister finish. [[Relations from the National Representative Manol Genov.]] Mr. Genov, please let Mr. Tanev finish his coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u169	I share fully, Mr. Genov, your emotion. She's mine, too. It's the same thing. It's just that the points of view are slightly different in the sense that I have to somehow protect the educational system from the completely undeserved accusations against it. Save me from the third thing that's not in this room right now. You're legislative, we're executive. There's another one. Well, in that case, we need to find the modus operandi. Article 305, para. 2 of the Preschool and School Education Act will be the basis for such measures. Secondly, I can guarantee you with witnesses that I've been to enough of these schools. Some of them, thank God, we were able to get on our feet. By the way, it happened. Yes, in Dobrudja. But others that, for example, were in Montana, we couldn't do. I know about the machines that are being looted. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'd like to know a lot more. From 2400 schools, on this schedule, which I have to deal with from Svishtov to the Research Fund, it does not give me the opportunity on a 48-hour working day to go around everything and satisfy what you accuse me of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was the last question to Todor Tanev "the Minister of Education and Science." We are now going to questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva. The first question she has to answer is a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Ibryam Chakarov on the implementation of the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, so you can develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u171	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, on 15 June 2015 the European Commission's Decision approved Operational Programme As far as I know, there are 13 more procedures announced outside of the above, but at this stage at least I have no information about a contract with a beneficiary of the programme. In practice, this means that the Operational Programme "Environment" which launched 2014 "2015" has no real implementation, and I wish this had started and had realization and I hope for positive answers from your part. At the same time, in order to begin the real full implementation of the Operational Programme "Environment" under one of the important priority axes Until then, several projects can be implemented as a second phase of population municipalities, as far as I know. I know that on 29 December you invited the municipalities of Plovdiv, Asenovgrad, Dobrich and Pleven to apply for funding of the so-called major projects. In this regard, my questions are: When do you plan to sign the first grant contracts under the Operational Programme of the Environment? When do you plan to have first payments under the Operational Programme "Environment"? When do you plan to announce the procedures for granting grants to other projects for construction of water infrastructures, or for the so-called water cycle? What is your vision on projects financed under OPOS Priority Axis 4 Prevention, flood risk management and landslides? And when do you plan to announce a procedure for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Madam Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u173	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, as you have noted, 14 procedures for project proposals under Operational Programme 2014 The total value of the announced procedures is nearly 1 billion. lv. Currently four project proposals have been submitted in the field of regional planning and strengthening the capacity of the water sector with beneficiary the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works; one to develop and introduce methods for analysis of water and equipment laboratories of the Executive Environment Agency; and one in the field of biodiversity. The first grant agreement with a beneficiary is expected to be signed by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works by the end of January this year. The first grant contracts for water infrastructure are for the so-called projects that are planned by the end of April 2016, given the commitments made by beneficiaries for full mobilisation in preparation and application of the programme. The first payment under the Operational Programme will be the advance payment to the beneficiary Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which is expected in February 2016 after the signing of the grant agreement. Payments at greater value will be on phased projects and after contracts with selected contractors of regional pre-investment studies are concluded. In view of what has been said so far, after April 2016, we will be able to expect serious payments under the programme, which will be able to be certified. With regard to the procedure for granting grants to projects for construction of water infrastructure, and as I have already repeatedly informed, when approving the operational programme with the European Commission, we have managed to achieve a smooth transition between the two programmes through the implementation of the so-called early projects. These are the four major projects quoted by you and five other projects that need to receive a positive opinion from JASPERS. The total value of these projects is approximately 520 million. lv. As regards the first four projects, the programme has already been announced. With regard to the other five projects, we are still waiting for JASPERS' opinion, which needs to be ready by the end of January, and then the invitation will be announced. The procedures for other investment in water infrastructure with beneficiaries of water operators will be available after the development of regional direct investment studies expected at the end of 2018. As regards the priority axis relating to prevention and risk management of floods and landslides, two procedures have already been announced to establish six centres for increasing population readiness for adequate response to crises and disasters and the establishment of a national system for water management in real time. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Another procedure is expected to be announced in the first half of this year for introducing solutions for prevention and management of flood risk, including ecosystem based solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u174	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Chakarov, a line? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! From what I hear, Mrs. Vasileva, I am somewhat less concerned and I look a little more positive and optimistic that in this year there will be no automatic recalculation of funds with the so-called mechanism "decommitment" after the payments will start. However, from the experience that we have with regard to operational programmes and the completion of the pre-accession programme, unfortunately, I will say typical in our own way, we are working at twelve to five and we are making huge efforts. I say this in view of all of us having a common mobilization so that the projects start and implement these so needed funds, especially in the water sector and in terms of managing waste activities, and also on the other axes that are of our attention. The goal is really not to work at the last minute and not to redirect funds as you obtained in the previous programming period. I am not referring to anyone's subjectivity here, simply to implement the funds under the priority objective, as is the huge need, especially in the water sector, knowing what serious means are needed there. I hope that during this programming period, you too as a minister will not allow serious structural changes to the managing authority. With regard to the managing authority and the interaction with the beneficiary, financial corrections, which we have seen, have also made work very difficult during the first programming period. Based on the positive and negative efforts to work more effectively, to implement these funds in the name of improving quality and standard of living. I am personally worried about this, but there is a need for joint efforts here that regional money for investment research in the water sector will be completed only by the end of 2018. Maybe here you and the Ministry of Regional Development as a responsible ministry, I mean MOEW [[the President signals that time has run out]] , and the government, if necessary, should have further talks with the European Commission, so as to launch more timely realization with regard to this axis as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mrs. Vassileva, do you want a duplicate?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u177	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, thank you for your comments. I certainly accept and share this part of them, which concerns the need to implement the activities in a timely manner and avoid the mistakes that have been made during the first programming period. I believe that the lessons learned will contribute to not making mistakes both in announcing and controlling public procurement and in implementing the projects and ensuring good quality and implementation of the projects. To this end, much has been achieved. Efforts continue to strengthen the capacity of beneficiaries and of all structures responsible for European money. No structural changes are foreseen. As far as the managing authority is concerned, I think that colleagues are doing extremely well and the results of last year show that the efforts really have led to the achievement of the desired objectives. As for the pace at which the new operational programme is moving, I would like to report that in just six months from the approval of the Programme in June, so far, the Operational Programme team has been able to compensate for the delay and, as I mentioned, prepare, announce procedures for nearly 1 billion. lv. They are already under way of applying, approving projects and so on. Of course, we hope for activity and mobilisation on the part of the beneficiaries, so that the activities can also be implemented within the deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u178	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to Minister Ivelina Vassileva, Minister of Environment and Water, is once again from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on the implementation of the Operational Programme Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Vassileva, given that Operational Programme "Environment" compared to the other operational programs is one of the successfully implemented in view of what has been realized, we need to make an analysis or conclusion and see how it is implemented. In the context of the previous question, which you answered to me, that based on the experience we have, to work more effectively, I will allow myself to point out that at the end of last 2015 the eligibility period for the previous programming period 2007-2013 ended. The implementation of the Programme has gone through many challenges. This, as I just said, is a heavy program, both financially and physically. In the framework of parliamentary control, I have repeatedly asked you questions about the overall implementation of the Programme, as well as about the achievement of the indicators set out in it. Today, two years after the end of the programming period and after the end of the eligibility period, when the projects under the Programme should be implemented in the last phase of implementation, are the following questions to you: What is the implementation of the Operational Programme "Environment 2007" at this time, both as physical parameters and as financial parameters? What is your assessment of the implementation of the Operational Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chakarov! Taking into account what has been done and the results that have been achieved, it can be said that, in both physical and financial terms, the year 2015 was the most successful year in the implementation of the Operational Programme As a result of the efforts, the Programme has met its objectives related to the set indicators for the implementation of environmental legislation policies and improvement of the country's environmental status. The data clearly shows that the year was characterized by the normalization of all processes and indicators, which measured the implementation of the Programme.................................. of the delay in carrying out the construction activities......................................................................................................................... The program successfully completed 282 projects. With regard to physical implementation in the sector, the Waters and Waters are newly built and rehabilitated 50 waste water treatment plants. The newly built or reconstructed water supply and sewerage network is 2649 km long, with 922 thousand inhabitants will use more quality water supply services. A total of 18 regional landfills for solid municipal waste have been built in the sector, which serve nearly 4 million inhabitants. In the sector, 228 protected areas of the Natura 2000 network have been mapped, 63 plans for protected areas, protected areas of the Natura 2000 network have been developed. As regards the financial implementation, the amounts paid to beneficiaries under the programme amount to 3 billion. 470 million. BGN, which accounts for 108% of the budget of the programme. The verified costs are 2.9 billion. lv. Of this amount, more than 1 billion have been verified in the last six months of the year alone. 100 million. lv. According to the rules of the Regulation, the verification of expenditure incurred at the end of 2015 continues in 2016. The amounts recovered by the European Commission amounted to 2 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which does not include the last two certificates only from December of a total of 328 million. lv. In conclusion, in only one year the verified and certified costs are as much as for the entire previous period of the programme until then. As you know, as you mentioned yourself, the Operational Program has been erected several times. [[the President signals that time has run out]] in the face of serious challenges, and I therefore believe that what has been done has led to a renewal of the Commission's trust, compensation for delays, improvement of processes, and, ultimately, this leads to my assessment, according to which I believe that the Programme can be considered successful. Furthermore, in addition to everything I have said so far, as I have commented earlier, the first programme has created practices, mechanisms and experience, which lay an extremely good basis for its natural continuation during the new planning period, during which we will be able to use 3.5 billion again. lv. for the clean environment of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u182	Thank you and I, Madam Secretary. Mr. Chakarov, would you like a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u183	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! By sharing what you said, Mrs. Vasileva, at the same time I would like to point out that the realization of the Operational Programme has gone through very serious challenges and problems. It is indeed a very good picture that we see as a final picture, but at the same time we have to say that it would be even better if realization were entirely in the context of the priority objectives set out in the Programme. I am referring to the relocation of funds again in a broader context for environmental purposes, but given what is the huge need for funds, at the risk of repeating myself here today, from the stands, I would say that a minimum of 7-8 billion is needed there. Now, with the general plans and the relevant pre-investment studies that are being carried out, the exact picture will be seen so that we have a water infrastructure that meets the current requirements. The resource is much, much more serious and already with the realization of the Programme it is seen that the effect in many places has been felt by all of us, the citizens who live in the country, in different cities and settlements. At the same time, we also need to point out problems that I have identified in several groups. There are three groups, and I'm going to introduce them here. First, the financial corrections that have been imposed. I thank you for the assurances that the Managing Authority and beneficiaries will not allow such violations. We have seen that many municipalities have faced serious difficulties in this regard. Note that in the new programming period the beneficiaries will be the water operators, water structures. I don't want to think about what would happen with difficulties that would be faced by the water operators so that we would rather be much more precise. Secondly, the problem of planning, selecting, preparing projects and financing. I've already indicated here about the relocation of funds. I hope that in this programming period all funds will be implemented according to the priority objectives. And the third problem, which in my previous question to you you assured me that there will be no reorganization, which will make it difficult to work on the Operational Programme. I hope that's true. The aim is for us to have a full mobilization so that all funds under the priority objectives are realized. I hope that with joint efforts based on the positive and negative experience from the previous programming period, rather the negative naturally, that we should not be allowed to have a successful realization of the Operational Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Madam Minister, will you use your coat?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, undoubtedly the financial corrections that were imposed during the first programming period may have had the worst impact on the beneficiaries of the Operational Programme "Environment" and it was she who suffered from the lack of sufficient experience and given the weight, scope, volume of projects, really very, very serious was the impact that municipalities received. Unfortunately, this was the first programming period. Of course, what we hope is that really learned lessons will lead to the elimination of such mistakes, the prevention of such mistakes. As for the relocation of funds, we have repeatedly commented on this topic with you. I am convinced that what was done in 2012 with the relocation of funds was a really useful move because funds were re-location to provide additional equipment to prevent and deal with damage from disasters, from floods, from forest fires, funds that were provided to the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population, an extremely necessary technique for protecting people's lives and health and the material base, and also measures that helped improve the cleanliness of the air in the largest settlements through modernisation of the bus, trolleybus park, by purchasing train wagons and tram cars. In this sense, given the challenges facing our country with regard to improving the quality of the air, I believe that these funds that have been allocated have their share in improving the situation. That's why we have a new priority axis in the program right in this direction. As I said, we are building on the previous programming period and we really hope that the funds available under the Programme will lead to improved environmental status and ultimately improve the lives of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u186	Thank you, too. The next question is again by the MP Manol Trifonov Genov on air pollution and the regular excess of carbon monoxide standards in the village of Krasnovo, Hissar municipality, Plovdiv district. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister! My question is about air pollution and regular excess carbon monoxide standards in the village of Krasnovo, Hissar municipality, Plovdiv district. Dear Minister, in the village of Krasnovo, the municipality of Hissar were put into operation two charcoal plants. In connection with the findings of violations of environmental legislation, the workshop of the company "Carbol" is closed by RIEW Plovdiv and since the summer of 2013 is not functioning. However, the second workshop, owned by the company "Ibo-S" Ltd, is continuing to operate while increasing its activity. According to the documentation, the workshop, owned by "Ibo-S" Ltd., has a dryer and storage permit, not for the production of charcoal, and is currently expanding its activities from four to seven coal kilns. This is a ten-fold increase from 100 tonnes per year to 1000 tonnes. The company informed the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Water on 06.08.2015 that it has taken action to supplement its registration file and registration under Regulation EC 1907/2006. Both workshops were put into service in violation of Annex No 1 to Ordinance No 7 of 25.05.1992 on hygiene requirements for health protection of the village system at the Ministry of Health and their distance is not more than 50 meters from the homes of the people and not more than 200 meters from the district school where children from four villages in the municipality are trained. For years the inhabitants of the village, which has been declared a resort of local importance and has been registered in two protected areas: "Popintsi".............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The questions for checking and measuring the clean air are submitted to the MOEW, RIOKOSE Plovdiv, RZI Plovdiv, the Chief State Health Inspector. In the last measurements, there is information that 13 times has been established. I repeat: 13 times higher standards of reflective oxide, but nevertheless the workshop continues its work, not bothered by the checks and by the sanction imposed by the institutions for pollution with the huge amount of 49 levs per month. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what measures will the Ministry of Environment and Water take to bring coal production into the above mentioned workshop, in relation to regulations and the Law on the protection of air cleanliness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u188	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary. Mr. Genov, you're running out of time for more than a minute. I'll take it from your line. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u189	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, from the very beginning of my response, I would like to challenge your claim. The control body supposed a forced administrative measure to stop the activity of coal production until it complies with the requirements of the environmental legislation. In this sense, the installation, owned by the company "Ibo S " Ltd., is not working. Now, a little more details. The production of charcoal, regardless of the method used, is considered to be the production of a chemical and is subject to registration with the European Chemicals Agency as required by the In 2012, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The so-called "late preliminary registration" of the European Chemicals Agency, which allows the operator to produce an average annual quantity of less than 100 tonnes. On 6 August 2015, the company informed the RIEW of its intention to increase production volume that it had taken steps to carry out registration in the tonnage group from 100 to 1000 tonnes. Currently no data are available for completed registration by this operator. In carrying out the activity, the company has an obligation to comply with the requirements of the Law on Air Cleansing and its subnormal arrangements. In accordance with the requirements set out in the 2014 Aviation Guidelines, the Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council, laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] laying down detailed rules The results of the measurements showed an excess of the carbon monoxide emission values. A current monthly penalty has been imposed for the alleged infringement by RIEW. In 2015 after received signals from citizens of the village of Krasnovo against the activity of the company, actions were taken to carry out control emission measurements. The control measurements on 14 and 15 September showed excess carbon monoxide in relation to which the operator was given prescriptions. A programme of measures to stop pollution with a deadline of December is presented in accordance with the prescriptions given in RIEW Plovdiv. In November, however, after signals received from the mayor and residents of the village of Krasnovo, on 26 and 28 November 2015 by the RIEW Plovdiv, checks were carried out on the site where it was found that a test of the facilities was carried out without completion of their reconstructions. A prescription is given to stop the tests of the facilities until their reconstruction is completed, as I mentioned. A forced administrative measure has also been applied to stop the production of charcoal until it complies with the requirements of environmental legislation. In this sense, the control body has taken all necessary adequate measures and applied all the strictness of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u190	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u191	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Maybe the last check was a little moved by this question of mine that I've asked a long time ago. This stop is probably precisely because of this. I don't have any information, and I haven't checked, but in winter, no one produces charcoal. So they can safely shut down their activities. I mean, about the environmental inspection area, was it necessary for them to sleep for a year and people to protest, to worry?! And it's worth 50 leva. I just said a huge amount of 49 BGN "The health of the children who study in this school and the population who live in this village?! People are extremely concerned. You and I have commented that one of the main air pollutants is the heating of solid fuels - wood and coal. You promised the Commission there would be a working group. She had to come up with some conclusions. We're waiting for them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u192	Thank you, Mr. Genov. You kept the arrangement exactly within a minute. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u193	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, there is no doubt that the efforts we must make to improve the cleanness of the air are ubiquitous and complex. We've commented on this more than once. The Atmospheric Air Cleansing Act was perfected just recently. Thank you for the support of the Members of the National Assembly. As regards the sanctions laid down in the regulations, they shall be applied. I have always been of the opinion that they should be applied strictly and uncompromisingly. I would therefore like to inform you that in the past year, a major focus in our activities has been improving the effectiveness of control activities, strict and uncompromising implementation of control. I would therefore like to inform you that, apart from the case cited, other actions have been taken by regional inspections on the imposition of the forced administrative measure (s) of the suspension of activities and installations from which the ambient air is polluting or carrying out its activities without the necessary purification facilities. During the last year, part of the installations of Montupe and Rousse were stopped after the overconflict of the air with hydrocarbons was detected. From RIEW Stara Zagora, the activity of a pyrolysis plant for processing a rubber granulate was stopped. From RIEW Burgas, after receiving signals of air pollution, an installation for the utilization of fresh bird manure and its conversion into organic fertilizer was stopped. From RIEW - Veliko Tarnovo, and RIEW - Plovdiv, the activity of coal production plants was stopped: as I mentioned the company in the village of Krasnovo, as well as installations in the town of Zlataritsa and the village of Yavorets, Sevlievo municipality. We will continue to be uncompromising in terms of violating environmental legislation and taking risks to people's health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u194	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This was the last relevant question addressed to you. We move on to answers to current questions from the Minister of Economy Mr. Bozidar Lukarski. The first will ask the people representative Slavi Binev about the policy of promoting small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr. Binev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! First, I must thank the Minister that after a few months he has found time to answer these important questions. Hopefully, to the next questions that we will have to discuss, we will be able to respond more quickly, because some things have an expiration date and it is good to get an answer as soon as possible. But to the question. In the context of a significantly deteriorated economic and financial situation, which is seen globally, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises is of particular importance for increasing economic growth. However, a significant improvement in their situation cannot be expected when there are a number of problems that harm their development. Such problems are administrative burdens, the lack of clear measures to promote entrepreneurship, the concentration of public procurement in certain companies and many others. This has brought many businesses to a particularly critical state, bordering on bankruptcy. Unfortunately, this is also happening during your term of office. In 2013, a National Strategy for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 2014-2020 was adopted as a continuation of European initiatives. I think it is good to draw up a plan to implement this strategy and proceed to its implementation, and this implementation is reported from time to time to both the public and Parliament. In this regard, I ask you to present measures identified by the Ministry of Economy to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u196	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u197	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, and I thank you for finding time to listen to me, because I three times come to the National Assembly of parliamentary control, ready to answer your questions, but you obviously have more important work on Friday and three times you were absent at the time when I am ready to answer your questions. Now, straight to the point. The Ministry of Economy's policy to support small and medium-sized enterprises is aimed at improving the business environment, promoting entrepreneurship, increasing its export orientation and technical modernisation. The business conditions are directly related to the quality of the legal framework and, therefore, the Ministry of Economy participates in the development of a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Regulatory Acts, which introduces an impact assessment, an element of which is the test of impact on small and medium-sized enterprises. The introduction of such an assessment will minimize the negative impact of changes in legislation on small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, this reform will contribute to overcoming frequent changes that lead to uncertainty in business conditions. The Ministry of Economy is also the initiator of the introduction of the principle of cost-oriented state fees. In this regard, the Ministry also developed a Methodology for determining the cost-oriented amount of state fees and provided methodological support to the other state institutions in its implementation. We also took part in the development of a new Law on State Fees, which will be fundamental in determining the cost-oriented amount of collection under the regulatory regimes, fees and the cost of the fees collected. In implementation of the National Strategy for Promoting the Development of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 2014-2020, which you are talking about, are planned and implemented activities under strategic objective: improving the business environment, increasing innovation activity and supporting the entrepreneurial spirit of Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises. The main activities for improving and improving the information service are: maintaining an information system of the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and creating a platform that helps introduce complex and standardised business services. The aim is to enable small and medium-sized enterprises to apply electronically for all services provided by the Agency, which will lead to transparency in ranking companies and improving administrative services for business. Within the first stage of the Strategy, a register of small and medium-sized enterprises is also established, which contains detailed information on small and medium-sized enterprises, volume and scope of activity, industry specialization and belonging to certain branch organisations and others. The register shall be filled in with information from experts from the Agency who visit companies on the spot and familiarize themselves with their business in detail with the aim of targeting promotion measures that meet to the fullest extent their specific needs. This part of the project has led to increased interest from foreign companies that have a business interest in Eastern Europe. It turns out that it is essential for them that companies are checked on the ground and that the Agency verify that these are serious partners with which business can be done sustainablely. The second phase will include the creation of a web-based platform for communication between Bulgarian companies, institutions offering services and business support, and services on trade and economic issues; opportunities will be sought for funding under the Operational Programme. In addition, I recall that at the moment, for the needs of the business there is also a national export portal that provides information to export-oriented companies, small and medium-sized companies, about the regulatory environment, administrative and registration permits, customs and tax regimes, business opportunities under the various incentive mechanisms, including measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises through Jeremy, Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness," Bulgarian Development Bank, National Guarantee Fund, Bulgarian Export Insurance Agency and others. Here is the place to note that for several months the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises has access to one of the world's leading database for strategic market research and analysis. This is another good opportunity for Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises to be helped with in-depth marketing information for successful formulation of export strategies, priorities and external markets. The objectives proposed are also intended to promote entrepreneurial spirit and skill of small and medium-sized enterprises by introducing dual training through training and seminars aimed at building a culture for young people's entrepreneurship. Another objective of ours is to stimulate market-oriented and applied research designed for the industry and to create conditions for attracting private capital for financing and innovation. Here the appropriate instrument is the National Innovation Fund. The same Fund is a successful scheme for financing innovative projects with state budget funds, which should be further developed over the next programming period by extending its scope. An important place within the framework of the implementation of the objectives set occupies and stimulates market cooperation and the development of clusters of small and medium-sized enterprises through training for cluster managers. The cooperation of Bulgarian cluster organizations is also envisaged for their inclusion in cluster networks from the Danube region, the European Union and globally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Binev, you are entitled to two additional questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, you have every reason to thank me because I have not despaired after waiting for you for, for example, ten weeks to answer some of these questions and I have continued to hope that I will receive the answers. I may have never really been there before, but it was connected to the temporary desperation that I've been subjected to. Outside empty phrases and good wishes, how can you verify that companies are really satisfied with the measures taken by this government? What makes you think that these measures really bring some results and not just empty phraseology that society has listened to? What are the achievements that can be proven with results, numbers and really with the smiles of people who are trying to develop small and medium-sized businesses? I'm not picking on you, I'm trying to help you because I see that you really need this help. The situation is by no means what it should be. If you think that everything is nice and wonderful, it is good to state it so that it becomes clear to people that they should be looking for someone who really wants to solve the problems and not get drunk on the temporary solutions that do not lead to any result anyway. I believe that the first step for the solution of any problem is its recognition. We have great problems in small and medium-sized enterprises and we need to take measures that clearly guarantee the managers and the people involved in this industry that something is going to happen in this sector. Otherwise they will remain with the distrust and that we see things in a different way from which they see them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u200	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u201	Dear Mr. Binev, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman! You are right Mr. Binev that there are problems in the small and medium business and they are not from yesterday. I think that the economic growth that we have been able to achieve surprisingly for many for this year, 2015 which this governance has gone through, is proof that there is, after all, some assessment that has real dimensions of what is achieved in governance. With regard to small and medium-sized enterprises and in particular what the Ministry of Economy has done, I will tell you in figures that we have granted 1.4 million BGN. for the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises at world and Bulgarian fairs in 2016. This will ensure the participation of Bulgarian companies in nine fairs abroad and three in Bulgaria only for the period January. Apart from the Operational Programme, Innovation and Competitiveness, which is in the Ministry of Economy, is aimed exclusively at small and medium-sized businesses, and only for the first procedure and the first deadline we have signed 202 contracts with small and medium-sized enterprises. We have extremely good feedback from them on the fact that for the first time the program has passed so unsubstantiated, so crystal clear and with clear indicators in maximum correctness and clarity. These are specific things I can say. Thank you and I am ready to answer your next question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Binev, you are entitled to respect the received answers within two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u203	The only thing I am satisfied with is that you have actually finally admitted that there are problems in this sector, which makes me believe that if we try to show you the problems, there is some chance that they will be solved and not swept under the rug. As for the fairs, we probably won't have time to talk today, because this may be my fourth or fifth question to you, you will see that it really is about fairs in the direct and transmission sense. It is also very nice to see who are those who have contributed to these fairs, and to be sanctioned. Regarding the economic uprising that you mentioned, of course, using other words, I think it is safe either for another country or for another place. At least I haven't heard one in our country. I know that in economic development within the statistical error, so you can't talk about boom at all. We can talk about possible maintenance of levels, which in practice, as the graph is time and growth, takes us back, because there should always be a step-up effect up and straight. But whatever. My idea is that you really need to solve absolutely all bureaucratic problems, to really make a transoperative government or an e-government, in which a large part of your activity should be, because perhaps there are the biggest problems, and to see that the Economic Ministry, as well as the whole country, of course, is not a mother for one, but a stepmother for others. Excuse me, I will add something very important to the European funds. I do not think that we have bloomed and tied to them, as I very carefully and specifically observe them. But we should also not forget the foreign direct investments, which, I must tell you, are under any criticism in Bulgaria at the moment. This is due precisely to the bad climate in which the country's economic situation is also present.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u204	Thank you, Mr. Binev. We move on to the next question by the MP Slavi Binev on policy regarding overcoming the economic backwardness of individual regions in the Republic of Bulgaria. You are welcome to develop your question, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues, in some underdeveloped areas of the country such as the Rhodopes, Northwestern Bulgaria and Strandzha for years the king poverty, misery and destruction. According to the latest data of the European Statistical Office......... based on gross domestic product per capita, individual Bulgarian regions are located at the bottom of this ranking. The northwestern region continues to be the poorest area in the European Union. Other, relatively new Member States of the European Union, such as us, for example Romania, can boast of much better indicators than us, unfortunately. The deepening economic backwardness has a beneficial effect on other negative trends that are very modern at the moment, for which there must have been questions before me, such as the observed growth of domestic crime and youth emigration. I believe that it is high time for an analysis of the economic problems in these areas to be able to proceed with the preparation of a package of measures that will lead to an improvement of the situation, and not to be decorative, as has happened many times, and indeed to be such measures that can be seen with the naked eye or not to be introduced or explained by someone, because the things that do not need anyone to explain them are seen immediately. In this regard, too, please provide the measures identified by the Ministry of Economy to deal with the economic problems in the backward regions of Bulgaria and the deadlines for their implementation to be related to the visible solutions. The Visible Solutions! Not what will be done, how it is done, but really visible solutions to solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u206	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Parliamentary control time will be extended by about 10 minutes, as there was a declaration from the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. Mr. Minister, you are welcome to answer the questions asked by the National Representative Slavi Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u207	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, there are currently regional disproportions in the economic development of the country. We are witnessing a process of reducing economic activity in many areas of Bulgaria and, as a result, people's migration to larger cities. The fact is that there is a concentration of economic resources in certain territories of the country, which is why the government's key priorities are the promotion of growth in other areas, overcoming regional disproportions. However, here is the place to mention that the functions of the Ministry of Economy are not directly related to the implementation of regional policies. However, some of the measures implemented by the Ministry provide for a territorial approach. For example, in the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness 2014 " 2020" the Northwestern region is the subject of targeted support, with the focus on the development of local potential in reporting the main challenges and problems in the region. Our goal is investment activities, which will be supported under the Operational Programme, to enable economic problems to be reduced and address adverse demographic trends in the area. We focus on developing and increasing the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises in the region by stimulating investment activity, creating opportunities to start a local business and supporting the energy resource of effective measures. As provided for in the Operational Programme, projects will be supported with a place of execution Northwest region. For example, in the first announced procedure, which I spoke about in the previous question, the improvement of the production process in small and medium-sized enterprises was envisaged regional prioritization for investments implemented in the Northwestern region. According to the approved assessment criteria, these projects receive an additional 5 points in carrying out their technical and financial assessment. As a result of the measures taken, it can be noted that about three times the interest of the business in the Northwestern region has increased as from a total of 847 project proposals assessed within the first deadline of the procedure, the scope of 152 of them provides for implementation of activities in the cities of Northwestern Bulgaria. For comparison, according to the old Operational Program (OP) Development of the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy 2007 - 29013 "for the entire period 2007 - 2013" of all 3774 project proposals submitted for technological modernisation procedures, 233 is the number of small and medium-sized enterprises within the North-Western region. In addition, the total declared value of the project implementation activities in the North-Western region within the first deadline of the procedure was approximately 123 million. lv. As a result of this, approximately 78 million of them. lv. is the amount of the grant financial assistance. Another opportunity to implement a regional approach in the policies of the Ministry of Economy gives the Investment Promotion Act, which is primarily promoting investments in municipalities with unemployment higher than the national average. By this law 47 out of 51 municipalities in the Northwestern region can benefit from the lower certification thresholds for projects for incentive measures, accelerated administrative services, acquisition of property under light conditions, financing of necessary infrastructure, financial support for staff training, and partial reimbursement of legal compulsory social contributions. For the smaller projects of all municipalities there is a legal opportunity to adopt their regulation on the promotion of investments of municipal importance. In them, municipal authorities can choose which economic activities to be supported by taking into account the potential of the local economy. In the regulations the municipalities can settle the most important issues for the smaller investors providing administrative services by individually designated persons; shortening the time limits for administrative services; opportunities for the provision of property. Municipal property, without auction and competition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u208	Thank you, dear Minister. For up to two supplementary questions there is the word of the national representative Mr. Slavi Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! You really create the basic framework, the global framework. It is indeed the work of local self-government to deal with all problems on the ground, but, of course, this basic framework is extremely important to make it so that it does not give opportunities for large lobbying or for additional selection that should be made in places. In this regard, I would like to tell you that this is related to the communication strategy that we have talked about many times with you. The communication strategy is insufficient in certain places because it is not related to advertising, nor to advertising the activities of the Ministry, nor to the proclamation or opportunity of Your Grace to be present in the media. It is mainly related to the explanatory regime of how to apply, what is done, how to obtain assistance and so on. Unfortunately, here are a small part of my colleagues who can confirm that this communication strategy is at a level no higher than it has been all this time since there is a communication strategy. Unfortunately! Unfortunately! Another question is whether this has been done intentionally or for some other reason. After all, I am sure that this is not only a desire, but a desire of everyone who deals with business in our country, to see visible results, to be able to touch them, to be able to touch them. All those things you're talking about, if you really read them, you'll get the impression that everything is wonderful and things will just happen any second. Unfortunately, we've all listened to these things repeatedly and it's perfectly normal to be inconvenient about the fact that tomorrow will be a better day than today. On the contrary, those who are more pessimistic are more likely to hit the weather tomorrow. In this regard, I would like to tell you that people really expect some results to be visible, and there is no need for any minister or any other administrative or civil servant to explain them. I'll explain in the next question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u210	In fact, in this procedure, you were entitled to two additional questions to be answered by the Minister, and then you have the opportunity to take an attitude towards his answers. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u211	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, because you are talking about visible results, I regret that just a moment ago the people representative Borislav Velikov, who is representative of the Montana region, and he can tell you about the visible results and the feedback of the companies who have applied for the Operational Program. Since you are talking about visible results, I have repeatedly told you numbers that correspond to the facts when the facts speak, we obviously have visible results. Of 202 contracts, which we have concluded under the first period of the first procedure, 57 of them have an area of operation and implementation of small and medium-sized businesses in the Northwestern region. Since you are trying and shifting the question of what we are doing on regional policies towards the communication strategy, I will also tell you about the communication strategy. Always the first procedure, and now the next, we start and finish our explanatory strategies with the big cities in the northwest. I, as a representative of the Reformation Bloc and as one of the people who have made commitments to the people of the Northwestern region, have always been a judge of this, and I am glad that the numbers I am telling you directly reflect the effectiveness of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u212	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the right to respect the overall answers within two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u213	I've seen many countries where they want to feed people numbers. It is extremely difficult to guarantee that some pass with mixed menus and numbers and wishes. I think it is high time for the hungry Bulgarian people to be fed with reality and indeed with results that do not need to be read, because we all know perfectly well that if we go to make a blizzard together with you, outside people will tell you that everything we are talking about right now is exactly as I am telling you. Currently there are problems with the selection of small and medium-sized companies. This is done in a very special, strange way, which proves that the state or municipalities are a mother to one and a stepmother to another, something that needs to be corrected. If there is a real communication strategy and not advertising, it will be able to show people how they can really protect their interest, how society can stand up to the bad practices that unfortunately exist in our society. The other option is to be like in socialism, which you should most fiercely resist, to accept that everything is wonderful and everything is great, and not to mention in any way the problems that occur in society. I believe that you, as an outright democrat, representative of a democratic faction, mostly it is your duty not to hide behind the problems, but to seek their solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u214	Are you saying that?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u215	There are problems right now in the small and medium business! If you want to take a walk with you and see if something really has improved. On the contrary, how many businesses, by the way, are on the brink of bankruptcy? How many businesses can have access to funding? How many businesses, by the way, are willing to finance them only when they really don't need them? Do you know how complicated the system is right now that a real person can survive? [[the President signals that time has run out]] Unless there's one on a special back, not just financial? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-15.u216	Thank you, Mr. Binev. This was the last question of today's parliamentary control, due to the passing of time in the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm about to close the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the next regular plenary session is on 20 January 2016, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
