ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I offer to your attention the draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 18 to 20 May this year: 1. Project for a decision on changes in the structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and Project for a decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer: Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. An early termination of the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. (Replyed by Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, under condition, depending on the decisions previously taken.) 3. New discussion of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code adopted by the National Assembly on 28 April 2016 and returned for a new discussion with Decree No 127 of 9 May 2016 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 4. A draft decision to complete the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management. Importers: Tsveta Karayancheva and Stanislav Ivanov. 5. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Aid Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. Importer: Council of Ministers. 7. Projects for decisions on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importers: Petar Slavov and a group of MPs; and a second draft decision with importer: Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. Importer: Council of Ministers. 9. Project for a decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the Center for Urban Mobility. Sofia. Exporters: Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs. 10. Draft decision for adoption of the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. Importer: Council of Ministers. This item was also included in the Programme for the previous plenary week, but we did not reach it, so the Conference of Presidents agreed that this should be point one for Friday, 20 May 2016. 11. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. And last point: Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Friday's usual day, and the usual starting hour "11.00" Please vote, fellow Members. Vote 185 MPs: 160 against 5, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules have received two proposals from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. The first is the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva and Valeri Zablyanov, who propose that the first vote of the Law amending the Law on pre-school and school education should be included as a point in this Programme. Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva, to defend your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the Bill, we propose to postpone the implementation of the Preschool and School Education Act by one year. The new Education Act was adopted with many promises, but instead of the expected clear and due to the Bulgarian society framework in the field of education led to tension in the system. The law was passed without clear content of state educational standards. It was not respected the requirement of the Law on Legislative Acts that the acts in question should be adopted together with the Law, but in fact it gives them extremely important importance in terms of the work of the Bulgarian education. Their importance for education for each school, for each family, for every Bulgarian child requires enough time for their development and for their discussion. It is a fact that until now only part of the state educational standards that are needed to implement the new Law have been adopted. The short time limits for the preparation of regulations have brought confusion, chaos, ambiguities with regard to curricula and new textbooks. The fact is that there was an explosion of public discontent regarding the new curriculum and their content, especially in history and literature. The Permanent Committee on Education and Science has also found no time to address this issue and consider our bill. Therefore, honourable Members, we are asking you today to be included on the agenda for this parliamentary week to discuss this bill. In our view, its examination and adoption of a decision can reduce to reasonable limits the risk of contradictions and errors that can cause severe and lasting consequences.. the negative, on the quality of Bulgarian education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Colleagues, please vote on the proposal made to include a new item in our weekly Programme. Vote 179 MPs: 52, against 65, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal for inclusion in the weekly Programme is the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, which proposes to include a draft decision on the need to promote interparliamentary dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation with No 554-02-102 of 8 December 2015, importer Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. We're listening, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear ladies and gentlemen of ministers, I am also using this case to address you! It seems to me that this House is not particularly interested in the proposals we are making, moreover, that what we are proposing today has been the subject of a discussion several times. Thanks to a series of your parliamentary numbers, we could not become a real discussion, of course, we did not reach a vote. However, we believe that this issue is one of the important issues for Bulgaria and the discussion on it should take place here in the Bulgarian Parliament. Once last year, we proposed a draft decision on the dropout of sanctions at all, including economic ones, in relation to the Russian Federation. In this Parliament, the majority did not agree with Bulgaria to take this step and to make the first and for proposals, as a result of which we decided to propose something very very realistic.... a first step which should unlock the cooperation and coordination between the European Union and the Russian Federation on a number of issues on the global agenda, including the relations between the two forces, between the two countries in terms of the conflict in Ukraine. One of our serious arguments relates to the fact that sanctions against parliamentarians on both the European Union's part and the response of the Russian Federation to members of the European Parliament and national parliaments of the member states were introduced by the executive power. We believe that this is a gross mistake that has been made by the European Union because it is not logical that the executive, which is actually subordinate to the parliamentary, should introduce such restrictions. In view of the threats facing the European Union, before European citizens, we believe that it is appropriate for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs to present to the European Council and to the Council We will further develop our arguments within the discussion and hope that at least today, although focused on other serious management problems, you will allow this week's discussion to take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u5	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Colleagues, please vote on this proposal. They voted 173 MPs: 51, against 67, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, by letter No 636-00-3 of 17 May 2016, the Central Election Commission sent me Decision No 3231-NS of 17 May 2016 declaring a Member of the National Assembly: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 3231-NS, Sofia, 17 May 2016 on the announcement of Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov as MP in the Twenty-Sixth Election Region "Sofiyski" With a letter in my letter. Decision of the National Assembly of 27 April 2016 was received by the CEC on 27 April 2016, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Irena Ivanova Kotseva as a MP from the Twenty-Sixth Election Region of Sofia, raised from the list of the political party GERB in the Forty-third National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the Forty-third National Assembly of the Twenty-Sixth Election Region of Sofia, Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov, EGN..., from the list of the Political Party GERB. Quaestors, invite Mr. Stoynov to take an oath. Here you go. I read, you repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u6	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u7	Congratulations! Messages concerning bills and draft decisions on the time from 11 May to 17 May this year: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on ratification of Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation for Social Security (Minimal Standards), 1952. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. Draft decision for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for awards with the Order of St. St. Cyril and Methodius. First degree. Importer Daniela Daritkova and group of MPs. It's been assigned to the Health Committee. A bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importers.. Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It will also be watched by the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Draft amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the leader of the Committee on Budget and Finance. A draft decision to complete the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management. Importers sveta Karayancheva and Stanislav Ivanov. Draft amending and supplementing the Law on Irrigation Associations. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. Annual report on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. It has been assigned to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Project for a decision on changes in the structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and Project for a decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. A bill to amend and supplement the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks. Importers.. Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importers "Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov. It has been allocated to the Energy Commission. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in connection with the upcoming May 24th Day of the Bulgarian Education and Culture and the Slavic Literature, which is on Tuesday and the Day of Holiday 23rd, Monday, I inform you that the MPs and the parliamentary groups can make their proposals for the National Assembly's work programme for the next plenary week from 25 to 27 May 2016 under the terms and conditions of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure until 18:00 on Friday 20 May 2016 The draft work programme of the National Assembly for the week 25 May, signed by me, will be submitted on 20 May 2016. On 16 May this year the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 5 of 2016 of the Constitutional Court in Constitutional Case No 2 of 2016. By its decision the Constitutional Court shall rule at the request of a 5th Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court and declare the provision of art. 100, para. 2 of the Civil Service Act, promulgated in the relevant Official Gazette. The National Statistical Institute received materials from the National Statistical Institute, containing statistics on consumer price indices for April 2016, gross domestic product in the first quarter of 2016, express assessments, labour force monitoring in the first quarter of 2016, average monthly salary and list of employees in employment and employment for the first quarter of 2016. The materials are available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first point of the program: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO CHANGE IN THE STRUCTURING OF THE MINISTER COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND PROJECT OF A DECISION ON PERSONAL CHANGES IN THE MINISTER COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Before that procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of ministers and those who are resigned! Here, from this high tribune, I say it's time to stop with the backstage, stop with the opaque solutions. [[strong noise in GERB and RB]] . Here, from this high tribune, you must...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u9	Mr. Popov, you requested procedure. Do the procedure for me, and don't address them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u10	I'll motivate myself. Here you must answer for the real motives for structural changes in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u11	Who? Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u12	In this regard, do not deprive the Bulgarian citizens of this right. They have a right to know why and who, yes, who!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u13	Who? Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u14	Therefore, I propose a procedure and I ask you to put to the vote the cameras of BNT and the microphones of BNR to direct the debates and voting on this. 1 of today's program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u15	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there a reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a reverse offer. This high tribune is not about performing a circus and election campaign, but about solving problems in the country. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB, RB, PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u17	Colleagues, I am putting to the vote the proposed direct broadcast of this. 1 of National Radio and National Television. They voted 189 MPs: 58, against 79, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. For another procedure there is the word Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! We believe that on this proposal and on this point here should be the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. If he is not in the country, nothing prevents the choice from being postponed, as there is nothing more legal, more logical and European than the changes in the Council of Ministers and the proposals to be made personally by the Prime Minister, as are the traditions of our parliament. I suggest that this point be held when the Prime Minister is here in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u19	From what you have done as a procedure, Mr. Gechev, I understand that you have approached me to invite the Prime Minister to attend this point. It is objectively impossible to carry it out, as Mr. Borisov is on an official visit to Uzbekistan. Dear MPs, by letter No 602-03-12... [[Loud noise in BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u20	There is an offer to postpone the examination.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u21	Well, make the right offer. You're doing it under condition. If you're not here, it would be right what you are. Do a normal procedure and I'll put it to the vote. But not from a place. Come here and do the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u22	Madam President, I have made the procedure conditional because you have not announced that the Prime Minister is not in the country. Therefore, I propose that we postpone the discussion of this point until the Prime Minister returns and personally proposes the amendments to the Council of Ministers. I propose a delay in discussing this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u23	Thank you. Inverse opinion of this procedural proposal? I won't. I'm voting on Mr. Gechev's proposal. Vote 187 MPs: 50, against 116, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Dear colleagues, by letter No 602-03-12 of 13 May 2016 a letter was sent to me regarding the resignation of the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Mr Kalfin. It was handed to the Prime Minister. In relation to the resigned and on the grounds of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria the Prime Minister has submitted to the National Assembly a draft decision amending the National Assembly Decision of 7 November 2014 and adopting a new structure of the Council of Ministers, amending the existing one, as well as a draft decision on the release of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Kalfin and on the election of a new minister. On behalf of Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister, will present to our attention the two draft decisions for structural changes and personal changes in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers! Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin resigned to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and asked to be released as a member of the government. In relation to the resigned and on the grounds of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, on behalf of the Prime Minister, I present to you a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin and for the election of Mrs. Zornitsa Dimitrova Rusinova as Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Zornitsa Rusinova has held senior positions in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and in the Ministry of State Administration and Administrative Reform from 2007 to 2012. From 2007 to 2008 she was Director of Projects and Programs Management at the Ministry of State Administration and Administrative Reform. From 2009 to 2012 he was Chief Expert, Director General of the Directorate of European Funds, International Programs and Projects at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy from March 2012 to March 2013 and responsible for labour market policy, international relations, labour and social law, incomes and demographic policies, as well as international and European funding programmes. Under her leadership were the Employment Agency, the Managing Authority of the Operational Program "Human Resources Development" and the Project "Beautiful Bulgaria." From 2013 to 2014 he was the Head of the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme under the........ to support social inclusion........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As of 19 November 2014, Ms. Rusinova has served as Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, responsible for the policy of European funds and international programmes and projects, as well as for international cooperation and EU issues. He is Chairman of the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" he is a member of the European Affairs Council, the Coordination Council of the Council of Ministers, the Interdepartmental Working Group for Coordination and Management of EU Funds. He is Chairman of the National Council of Professional Qualifications, the National Council for Employment Promotion, is a member of the national negotiating team of the European Commission for the programming period 2014 - 2020. He is fluent in English, Russian and Spanish languages. Ms. Rusinova is a Master of International and Economic Relations at the University of National and World Economy and holds a Master's degree in Bulgarian and English philology from Sofia University. On the basis of the above, as well as the fact that in the years Ms. Rusinova has established herself as an indisputable expert and leader, but also a specialist with respect to the issues of the social system, also recognised by our partners in the European Commission, I propose that the National Assembly adopt the draft election of Ms. Zornitsa Dimitrova Rusinova as Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Madam President, I do not know if I need to read the decision on structural change in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u25	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u26	It reads: The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria consists of a Prime Minister, three Deputy Prime Ministers and ministers. The ministers are responsible for the individual ministries.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u27	Thank you. Colleagues, before I open the debate, I suggest that we allow Mrs. Zornitsa Dimitrova Rusinova into the Chamber with our decision. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Vote 184 MPs: 167, against 2, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite Mrs. Rusinova to the hall. The debate is open. Please, the Members of the National Assembly who wish to participate in it, to objectify their desire. Anyone? There aren't any. Mrs. Ninova... [[Radio.]] Mrs. Ninova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! BSP left Bulgaria will not support the changes in the cabinet for four reasons. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u29	Colleagues, I request the necessary order in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u30	For four reasons, we will not support this change. The first is because we're opposition. Changes in the cabinet, votes of distrust and trust, budget and so on is the dividing line between government and opposition. But since we all know BSP is an authentic opposition, consistent [[crowd cheering and cheering]] I'm not gonna talk much at this point. I will leave time to these colleagues, who overnight turned from government to opposition, to explain in their motives why. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]] The second reason why we will not support these changes is because they do not change anything in the policy of the government of Boyko Borisov in the social sphere. This is the most antisocial government in the years of transition. No government in all these years has allowed itself to freeze 14 social payments, even at times when poverty was not so great, inequalities were not so huge. Fourteen social payments to the most vulnerable, poor and weak people in Bulgaria! These are the people with disabilities, workers, mothers and young families, all 14 social payments for the most vulnerable are frozen, and not just for this year, colleagues, but for the entire management period of this government, as long as it is, because it probably won't last the entire period of government. [[GERB lines.]] The third reason is the most anti-reformative government in the years of transition. Let's see what reforms you have made for this year and a half. At the heart of this reform, you did not put the man in the midst of today's and the future pensioner, but put the money. The reasons for the pension reform say that its goal is to reduce the deficit in the National Insurance Institute for 2016 and the following years. The result, fellow Members, of this reform: the NSI deficit for 2016 has increased by 300 million, provided for in the Budget Act, not simply as a forecast. In other words, the objective that you set for yourself has not been achieved. How did today's pensioners feel about this reform? Did they get a raise in pensions, did they get better in life? Not at all! How did future pensioners feel about this reform? The fact that they will never live to become such, as the increase in internship and age at this time of high unemployment will never allow them to retire. You once tried to reach out to private pension funds and nationalize people's money without success because there was a reaction in society. There is a second such experience going on right now, and I would like to point out to you that with the changes proposed in the Social Security Code, you are putting people's money into a common pool and depriving them of the right to be inherited, that is to say, you're taking them in like what you did with the Health Insurance Fund. For the two governments of Borisov, colleagues, to talk about your legislative framework and consistency, you have changed the Code of Social Security 35 times for the two governments of Borisov. This is called a stable, consistent and predictable social policy. The fourth reason why we will not vote on this change is that there is no change. Whoever you put as a minister, he will conduct this policy, which Borisov's government has wagered on anti-human, anti-social, anti-reformative. Why would I say that? In the three-year forecast framework, you have set the social payments to be frozen by the end of the term of office. In addition, combined with indirect tax increases, insurance contributions, i.e. with additional burden on people, but with frozen social payments. The one good thing you did in the social sphere, the increase in the minimum wage for 2016, for the next three years, you predicted to stay and it froze. I mean, you gave up that good, too. What does that mean? Loading with more insurance, with more taxes, but frozen wages and social payments, means poverty, increasing poverty. And that's not gonna change who you put as Minister of Labour. This is where I open the clamp, as Minister Kalfin is broadcast by the ABB. I am very interested in how they will from now on be an alternative opposition, since the entire pension reform, the entire freezing of social policy and the three-year forecast framework are adopted with their votes and in the decision of these policies was involved their former Minister of Labour and Social Policy?! Strange metamorphosis gave birth to the modern political space in this parliament. Some are opposition, but they have ministers. Others will become an alternative, but to themselves, because they have created this policy and are active actors in this policy. There will be no change! That is why our position is not only against this personal change, but against this government precisely because of its antisocial, anti-reformative nature, its anti-human position in the social sphere. The outcome of all this is early elections! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u31	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u32	Dear Madam President, Mr. Missing Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am not surprised by the resignation of the Deputy Prime Minister on demographic and social policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin and leaving ABB from the foggy, unprincipled and vague coalition ruling our country in the last year and six or seven months. I am surprised by the high self-esteem of Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin and the thanks and appreciation of Prime Minister Borisov for his work. I wonder what those high grades are for? Perhaps for the excellent, of course, results of this government in the social sphere?! It also surprises me that the entire government is not resigning. We from BSP left Bulgaria and we state that this government has failed and who has a sense of responsibility to our people let us follow in this assessment. Most of all, this applies to the new opposition force ABB. GERB's economic and social policy and this government is a disaster for the state. The economy is in crisis and is conquered by fewer but close to power people. The social policy of the cabinet is a complete failure. The unemployment is huge, poverty is increasing and is knocking on the threshold of more and more Bulgarian families and they fall below the official threshold of poverty. You have failed in all spheres of state policy, but mostly in healthcare, education and social spheres. The assessment of the social policy of the outgoing minister and of this government can be expressed in one word: tragedy, or, if you will, disaster. Once again, I will find that our people are the poorest, the sickest and the most unhappy in Europe. People are outraged by the antisocial policy of this government, which is practically a policy not for the people, but against the people, frozen social payments to the most vulnerable layers of our society; frozen incomes and Bulgarians every day of your government are impoverished. This is not new, of course, because you have done this all the years you have ruled this country. Even the ABB's participation in this government and supposedly the left social minister could not legitimize you as doing something positive in the social sphere. You bet billions and billions of new debts that our children and grandchildren will pay if they ever stay to live in this country that you rule. You have made a cruel and man-hatred pension reform, which practically deprives the Bulgarian of the opportunity to retire and along with the even more cruel health reform and the ill-considered educational reform we will complete the Bulgarian people, you will bring it to the nearest years to 5 million poor, sickly, bitter and unenlightened populations. Nothing, but you literally didn't do anything to overcome the demographic disaster. On the contrary, you deepened it with your attitude towards mothers by freezing their payments. Unfortunately for all Bulgarians who trusted you in October 2014, you failed to surprise us, although given the configuration of the government we had slightly different expectations. You have remained loyal to your philosophy of neglecting the social theme. With the budgets you received later, you created a product bordering on social isolation. The poverty, unemployment, expectations and hopes of your Bulgarians remained foreign. And how else can we call what we see in Bulgaria other than tragedy or catastrophe? Now, instead of resigning and walking more closely, you are offering repairs to the cabinet. You are proposing for social minister Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova, a person who is undoubtedly smart, educated and readable, a person who is close to social issues. However, in this clear and entirely neoliberal policy that you are leading, including in the social sphere, will far be of no use to resolve or at least to mitigate social problems. The problem is hardly the minister's personality, rather it is entirely in the policy you are leading, because Mr. Kalfin is the fourth minister, who for one reason or another goes away from this cabinet, and things rather than going towards improvement are getting worse. So we have no hope. If you remain in power, which I doubt, this minister will have to solve a number of problems. And to make everyone who will support her today, what policies they stand for, today, she must clearly and unambiguously answer a few questions. Firstly, should we expect the thawing of social payments with the next budget for 2017? Should we expect a revision of the pension reform so adopted, which is to alleviate the retirement regime? What concrete action will be taken to address the demographic crisis? What is her attitude and what will be her reaction to the unreasonable measures of the finance minister to possess the people's money from the second pillar of the pension system? Will he have the will to put justice and order in social assistance? Will there be the will to solve the problems of people with disabilities, the high unemployment among their environments and the lack of conditions suitable for work? What will be her actions to reduce unemployment and increase people's incomes? What will be her position on the ever-growing attacks for the withdrawal of union and labour rights from the workers? What will be the decisions on the work expertise for the benefit of people with disabilities or in the direction of cutting their rights? And many, many more questions that this minister will have to answer. Needless to say, BSP left Bulgaria is not going to support these changes in the cabinet Borisov 2. He will not support them not because of the proposed person, but because of the conviction that even the biggest expert to put for a social minister, in this policy that you are leading, there is no future for the Bulgarian people. We will not support them because we are principled and we are for another type of real social policy. We will not support them because with every passing day of your government, honourable gentlemen of this government, Bulgaria is sinking and fatally moving away from the ideas of the modern social and legal state. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? I won't. To speak, the public representative Mariana Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u34	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I will not hide that I take the floor on the occasion of previous speeches, and unlike them, you will not find a gram of populism in my words, but only facts. Let's see what Ivaylo Kalfin did about the time he was Deputy Prime Minister and Minister: - implement the pension reform - the first real reform in this government, and in full consensus between trade unions and employers; - also implemented the Family Aid Act for children by encouraging responsible parenting; - also amended the Law on Labour Law with day-to-day contracts. We're still going to see what the effect is. - the Law on Employment Promotion has been adopted; the Law on Social Assistance, because there have been cases brought against Bulgaria; the Law on Labour Migration and Mobility; the Law on Equality between Men and Women. Since 2001, there has been an attempt to pass this law. Nine ministers and several governments failed to accept it. This says a lot about the personality because this person is able to reach consensus and find agreement. So, colleagues on the left, be careful! The bar is very high and it will be difficult to outdo it. When you, under the conditions of a right-wing government with your left-wing convictions, manage to achieve what Ivaylo Kalfin has achieved, then you will have the right to say and to object. What also happened during this period? - They've increased income, minimum wage. This also reflects on the average wage. - The unemployment rate is reduced by statistics, the number of employees is increased. - A restructuring of the system for telks has started and an Action Plan and an update of the Demography Strategy has been submitted to the National Assembly. - The question of the free nursery is raised. - There's a new Social Services Act going on. Let us see, however, what is your modest experience in pension reform, since you had one and it was failed in November 2013, when the head of the government is Oresharski and you have the head of the Social Committee, you propose two laws in this area? When they are examined in the Chamber, your Social Minister is not present because he does not agree with the submitted bills. On the contrary, he has taken another constructive path and has called an Advisory Council for Pension Reform. You import two bills through his head. One is rejected by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, there is no financial justification, and the other CST is against it. What are you doing? You postpone the decision for 1 January 2014. That is, you agree with the steep increase in age and internship, as ostriches hide your head under the sand and say that in one year you will return to this. That is, your modest attempts at pension reform are a complete failure, you are not giving any solution. What did you do last year? You proposed in the 2015 Budget Act and then, later you called an alternative pension reform something that consisted of raising the insurance burden, burdening workers and employers with nearly 2 billion, and that was the outcome for you for pension reform. I mean, you were supposed to benefit the elderly, but you were burdening the workers and the employers. This was no alternative pension reform. As for what opposition we would be, we would not be like you, we would not do everything in a pile, we would support Minister Rusinova for one, as there should be heredity. And that you are acting in spite of it and your definition of opposition defines your power as opposition. So derzaj, you have a lot to achieve and a lot to jump over over Minister Kalfin! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from ABB and part of the ministers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u35	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. For speech there is the word of the MP Hasan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Mrs. Rusinova! I do not have and have no internal need to enter the domestic controversy between ABB and BSP left Bulgaria and I will therefore speak in a completely different way, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to say that this is another third change in the staff of the Council of Ministers within the term of office of Borisov 2. This personal change is accompanied by a structural change in the Council of Ministers, as Mr Kalfin was also a deputy prime minister responsible for demographic policy. Now this structural change also raises a few questions that I will address a little later in my speech. However, the current resignation, unlike the previous two, is slightly different because it came after a political decision of the National Council of ABB to leave the ruling coalition. In the framework of the Forty- Third National Assembly we already have two parties who left the ruling coalition.... was first the DSB, now the ABB, which means that the opposition parties in the National Assembly are already several in number. It is very interesting how these two opposition parties will vote in the upcoming vote? This is perhaps one of the important issues because the vote on the Council of Ministers' composition, on structural changes to the Council of Ministers, as well as the vote on the State Budget Act are the most important political acts that draw the demarcation line between government and opposition. From this vote it will become clear who is a real opposition and who in one way or another mimics opposition behaviour. The movement for rights and freedoms will not support the proposed structural and personal changes to the Council of Ministers. The DPS will not support the proposed projects because we believe there is no personal change that can correct the wrong formula for structuring a ruling coalition. What do I mean? The government is highly dependent on the wishes and whims of coalition partners and instead of generating stability, the government's decisions generate instability, endanger democracy and the rule of law in the country. Under the Constitution, the Council of Ministers directs and implements internal and foreign policy. The individual sectoral ministers are those who lead and, notice, are responsible for the activities of the relevant ministries. In this sense are the challenges facing the candidate for Minister of Labour and Social Policy, because this ministry is slightly different from all other ministries, ladies and gentlemen. The scope of the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy covers life before birth and after death, because social policy begins with payment of benefits for pregnancy and maternity and ends with payments that are characteristic of payments of so-called inheritance pensions. In this sense, the challenges facing Ms. Rusinova are in several directions. I want to draw them this way. First of all, with the Ministry of Finance. If there were any misunderstandings or scandals in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, they were provoked not by a decision of Minister Kalfin, but by proposals and decisions coming from the Ministry of Finance. I don't want to take examples of the last example is from a few weeks ago. Next, all the budgetary problems of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and you know that the Social Security, Health and Care Sector is spending more than one third of the state's spending as a whole, are linked to the relationship between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In this sense, it is very important that Minister Rusinova, if elected, shows character in the relationship with the Minister of Finance, otherwise I expect nothing good to happen in social policy. The next type of relationship, which is similar, is with the Ministry of Health - also a difficult contact between the two ministries, because for one and a half years the question of regulating the expertise of workability has not yet been resolved. What has been said is that the medical expertise of the species and the extent of the damage from the assessment of the permanently reduced performance, unfortunately, has not been done yet and it is not very clear when it will happen. In this sense, the relations between the two ministries, between the two ministers within the cabinet, are extremely important and Minister Rusinova must show character in order to be able to solve these problems in the interests of the Bulgarian citizens and the insured persons. The following relationships are with the Ministry of Education because the Ministry of Education is responsible for the professional qualification and the requirements of the labour market, which is subject to the decisions of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, are extremely important because the regulation of these relationships depends on how the labour market will function. And last but not least, the relationship with the Ministry of Economy does not make sense to bring arguments in this direction. A very important policy that must be implemented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is demographic policy, all the more so far that Minister Kalfin has responded to the level of deputy prime minister for demographic policy. Bulgaria has adopted two national strategies - the first 2006-2020 - and has an updated National Strategy for Demographic Policy 2012-2030 - in which national strategies the role and place of the deputy prime minister responsible for demographic policy are clearly described the commitments. Because demographic policy, as is well known, is a horizontal policy and necessary coordination at a higher level than any ministry. Therefore, my expectation is when and what will be the decision of the Council of Ministers for the appointment of the Deputy Prime Minister, who will be responsible for demographic policy. This is extremely important. Demographic policy is the basis of all other policies because it is no secret to anyone in Bulgaria that nearly 20% of Bulgarian citizens, of the population of the Republic of Bulgaria, is over 65 years old. From this point on, the changed demographic picture is those which will put increasing pressure on public finances. And if that doesn't count, there's no way things are going in the right direction. I'd like to say a few more words. To date, Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin was the head of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. That is, another type of relationship that is within the scope of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy will now be headed by another Deputy Prime Minister, who is not from the social sphere. Let us hope that this will not cause any problems, because it is clear that social partnership, industrial relations are extremely important and if social partnership in one way or another does not go the best, problems in the social sphere are always there. Next, I would like to say, and perhaps this is the biggest problem in the social sphere, is the deficit in the budget of state social security. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not see the Minister of Finance, but the transfer, which is foreseen in the 2017 budget, from the state budget to state social security, is slightly below 5 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 700 million. The deficit at stake, note, despite the changes in the pension system, despite the prickly speeches we have just heard, is 2 billion. 89 million. This is the number written in the State Social Security Budget Act, i.e. with a deficit in the state budget of 2% of gross domestic product or around a billion and 800 million, the entire deficit in the state is generated by the social system. The budget of state social security in practice is the deficit of the state. And if we do not take measures to reduce the pressure of this deficit, I expect nothing good with the State Budget Act and its implementation. The last thing I want to say is that serious changes in labour law are also needed. Ms. Rusinova in her former existence and in her participation in several cabinet as Deputy Minister, as Director of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which the Directorate is actually the Managing Authority of the Operational Program Human Resources Development, has experience in the management of the Operational Program Human Resources Development and before that of the Operational Programme. What will happen from now on, what is its experience, what are its views in other sectors of social policy we do not know, because it has no experience in social security so far, has no experience in other policies of social policy. Let's hope Mrs. Rusinova can handle the challenges. I conclude by saying that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not support the two proposed structural changes in the composition of the Council of Ministers and for personal changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u37	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u38	Time extension...?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u39	Ask for it. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u40	How much time do I have?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u41	Four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As it became clear, we will not support the changes proposed by the government, all the more so that we have seen a very curious fact. Mr. Tsvetanov was circling parliament, seeking support from all parliamentary groups for Mr. Tomislav Donchev. [[Noise and lines.]] It was also the independent candidates who were supposed to support him "a very comic situation, which then turned out to be almost not Mr. Tomislav Donchev, but to be Mrs. Rusinova. Indeed, it is your right, but at least don't confuse people, because apparently lack of capacity and personnel is a major problem for your party. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The second thing I want to say. I'm very fond of ABB's support. So you, Mr. Kalfin, are turning him into a cult, and you'll almost be supporting the government by now. Okay, but didn't you say last week that you were leaving the government, or are you an opposition that supports the government?! Until now, I have never known such a political party and such political behaviour. [[beeps and lines from ABB]] To be both opposition and to support the government. Of course, the CBI were the people who launched such actions, but I see that the ABB are keen to imitate them. This, ladies and gentlemen, shows a lack of political identity. Something that impressed me even more about how to praise the achievements of the Ministry. Yes, indeed, a lot of work has been done, but the following must be said: this government has done a genocide to the Bulgarian citizens - this is the pension reform. From this tribune, I say that when BSP comes back to power again, "Stage and age" will be frozen and we will not allow it to increase anymore because it is detrimental to Bulgarian citizens. So citizens need to be calm, because the time of this government is running out, it is already going away. [[(Loud noise and lines. (Laughter)]] Sooner or later, old and old will be frozen and there will really be a social justice! I'm asking: what about the day-to-day contracts? Why is it that no one likes them, no trade unions, no employers, no workers? In fact, it was a huge change, a huge reform that, alas, did not receive any support! What happened to the changes regarding family aid? Nearly 3,000 fewer families benefit from this family aid. Or perhaps pride is that when the Oresharski government previously had payments of approximately 13 billion. BGN, and now that they are shrinking or freezing, is almost a great achievement. Most importantly, to the new minister, who you will support, of course, again, I say with the support of the ABB, perhaps the right will also support this change. Mrs. Rusinova, you are mostly a specialist in the Operational Program. You know very well at the moment what delays are there for the two procedures. These projects were supposed to be approved four months ago. Unfortunately, several times they are slowing down, systems collapsing, so that a project with note No 800 becomes Project No 1. It will not be possible not to come out sooner or later and there will be all your fault, because this program was a good program - a program that really used both employers and trade unions, mostly people. At the same time, what is happening at the moment will lead to serious problems. Most of all, we will have problems generally in the absorption of EU funds, because we see that at the moment what comes out will show the real truth, not that dust in the eyes that you threw to people and explained how you almost absorbed everything. On the contrary, at the moment we must burden the state budget for projects that are being carried out, and they are not de facto even completed. But all this remains on your mind, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You will decide whether you will support this very curious change that started, again I say, from the towers, when Mr. Tsvetanov here convinced us how good Mr. Tomislav Donchev is, we have reached Mrs. Rusinova, we see the support of both DSB and ABB for a government that, sooner or later, goes away. We say one thing: people will get real support, get what they deserve, and that's only when BSP comes to power again! [[Lowered chisel noise and lines on the right.]] And that's why the only way we don't all suffer is to have as many early elections as possible! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Are there any other speeches? A line? Here you go. [[BSP LB.]] No one asked for an extension of the parliamentary tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u44	Don't embarrass yourself, Glauchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u45	You didn't do it from the stands. [[Arrival in GERB.]] You have the floor, dear Mr. Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u46	Dear Mr. President, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable cabinet members, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! I'm going out to the stands to pay attention to left space to stop practicing on ABB's back! ABB... [[Shouting from BSP LB.]] ... No yelling because you're not in the field with the sheep! [[Radio and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u47	Please, dear Mr. Tsochev! Please order in the court! Don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u48	You are in the highest responsible place called the National Assembly and behave yourself. Secondly, I want to let you know that if you practice on ABB, you'll break your teeth! Stay away from the ideas of dealing with ABB! We are not a political force to deal with political intrigues, with a goonsuratlak, as you do! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u49	Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u50	Now, may I ask for a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u51	You won't be able to ask in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u52	So you're not gonna extend the time again?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u53	Didn't you have to ask for it from the stands?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u54	I will again ask for an extension of time, although Mr. Glauchev does not honor you with such cheap tricks to try to silence the opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u55	Extend group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u56	Thank you! Finally. To colleagues from ABB: You are a political force! You must accept the truth as well. So far, you've had a very nice and pleasant time when you're in power, and now you're trying to be an opposition, but you see you're having a hard time because you're connected to this government! No way, you're wearing the stain of this government and you're part of it! So we say: let's stop the agony as quickly as possible to go to early elections. Now there are presidential elections and then we really have a parliament and it is clear who is ruling and who is opposition. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u57	Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, colleagues! Today we are discussing the Prime Minister's proposal for personal changes in the government and it is normal that the focus of today's discussion is on the personal and professional qualities of Ms. Zornitsa Rusinova. We MPs of GERB parliamentary group give our credit to Ms. Rusinova to take the post of Minister of Labour and Social Policy. We rely on her experience and expertise gained from her leading positions in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and in the Ministry of State Administration and Administrative Reform. As Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, she is responsible for labour market policy, international relations, labour and social law, income policy, European funds, international programmes and projects and international cooperation. Under her leadership were the Employment Agency, the Managing Authority of the Operational Program "Human Resources Development", Project "Beautiful Bulgaria". She is a Master of International Economic Relations from the University of National and World Economy. He has many years of experience in the management of programs and projects acquired in the UN Development Programme, the American Agency for International Development and the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme. I personally know Mrs. Rusinova from her long-standing activities as Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Over the years, it has proven its professional knowledge and experience in the social sphere. A woman of strong character, workaholic, dialogueal and moderate in relations with people. This is extremely important for a social minister, because in his daily life he will have to meet and solve problems posed by various social groups: people with disabilities, mothers, unemployed, socially weak. The long-standing experience held by Ms. Rusinova for the management of programs and projects will contribute to the successful implementation of the Operational Programme. What do we expect from her? First of all, we are counting on Mrs. Rusinova to continue working on building on what has already been achieved in the field of social policy. And I'd say it's not a little bit. Firstly, I would like to point out the subject of reforming the pension system. As painful as this topic may be, I would like to point out that the changes made to the Social Security Code create conditions for security, stability and predictability in the pension system, and these are key elements for increasing confidence in it. Secondly, I would note what has been achieved in terms of reducing unemployment and increasing employment, which leads to an increase in revenues in the insurance system. One of the main highlights was the employment of young people and their promotion of participation in employment. For a year and a half this government increased the minimum wage three times from 340 BGN. £420. From 1 January 2017 it is expected to become 460 BGN. And increase the average wage. According to NSI data in the first quarter of 2016 the average monthly salary in Bulgaria is BGN 931. and increased compared to the fourth quarter of 2015 by 1.7%. As a result of the shrinking of the gray sector and more revenue at the National Insurance Institute for two years as Easter and Christmas supplements for pensioners, the government has given 220 million. lv. Reform was made in the area of family assistance for children, focusing on responsible parenting and preventing abuse of the social system. The issue of receiving benefits from student mothers was resolved and the phenomenon of children receiving benefits for their children was removed. From 1 July this year will increase the income criterion for receiving family aid from 350 to 400 BGN. Currently, 500 thousand households receive child benefits, and after the change their expected number will increase by another 10 thousand. We made a commitment to increase the supplement for raising a child with permanent disabilities. New regulations have been established in the field of social services. Legal changes were made to improve access to social services for children with disabilities. All specialized institutions for children with physical disabilities and mental retardation were closed. A plan is prepared for deinstitutionalization of institutions for children deprived of parental care and is about to be adopted. The network of social services in the community was substantially increased. A plan has been developed to implement the strategy for long-term care to provide quality and effective services for lonely elderly and disabled people. Changes to the Public Procurement Act and the Employment Promotion Act created conditions for increasing the employment of disabled people. Development and consolidation schemes and social entrepreneurship and employment and services for disadvantaged people in the labour market are to be developed. The Law on Equality of Women and Men was adopted. There is still much to be done by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. One of the most important and urgent issues to be resolved is early retirement, changes in legislation concerning the second pillar of compulsory supplementary pension insurance, disability pensions, wired and last but not least demographic policy. It therefore takes political will and willingness to take responsibility for these extremely brave decisions. I have no doubt that Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova has these qualities. That's why I suggest we support her. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u59	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! I didn't intend to speak, because it wasn't my topic. I tried to figure out what the genre we are looking at today in the Chamber is, and I came to the following conclusion. We do not make a vote of confidence or distrust of Mrs. Rusinova. We do not even make a vote of confidence or distrust of the social policy of the government. What is actually happening today is a vote of confidence or the government's distrust! You've already received a vote of no confidence from the BSP group, from the DPS group, and now you're getting it from me! I would like to call on colleagues from the ABB, who obviously see it as a vote of distrust for social policy and, naturally, defend their own minister, to reconsider their position. [[Noise and lines from the bottom of the hall.]] My fellow Members, this government has gone down the tilted plane. You've come to depend on the voices of the patriotic and nationalist parties. In just half an hour we will enter the next crisis with the Election Code, and we will get to the sacred phrases: "Or it will become ours, or we will leave the coalition! " [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u61	We haven't reached that point yet, dear Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u62	Mrs. Rusinova bought a factory on September 8th. She must know that very well! Perhaps it is important for her these few months to sign up for her biography as a minister, but it is important for us whether reforms are taking place in the country and whether we are going in the right direction. In my opinion, Mr. Tsvetanov, I also refer to you as the leader of the parliamentary group, this pointless obstruction to remain in power because we do not want to repeat what happened in 2013, not to set the precedent for permanent leaving of power, leads to the state going under. And the sooner there are elections, along with the presidential elections, so that we don't lose some senseless 30 million. BGN, let's do it three months later, because you don't want President Plevneliev to make you a service government. Or there's a solid government structure and it gets through to the end of its term, which it doesn't, because you're constantly losing coalition partners, you've lost ABB, the patriots, on the one hand...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u63	Mr. Kadiev, please return to the subject of the debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u64	...you lost others, but you started to depend on the independent voices in the back. You'll be talking to other independent voices. It can't go on like this! That's why I'm offering you: we're going to elections. If you are as strong as you claim, win the election, make new coalitions and rule! Whoever wins, this is democracy, but this construction cannot go on. Dear colleagues, there is an American saying: The straw breaks the backbone of the camel. Loads, loads, loads, and then one tiny straw, something very small breaks your spine. That thing is the choice today. This is the vote of confidence or distrust of the government! And the next choice with the Election Code. I call on you: to end this thing, to go to elections and to whoever wins! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u65	You won't be in parliament anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u66	- What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u67	Yes, I heard the colleague's line. I won't be in parliament anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u68	Please, Mr. Kadyev...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u69	So what?! There's no drama in this thing. [[Noise and lines.]] I've been, I've been out and I've been in...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u70	Please do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber. Mr. Mihov, please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u71	Well, Mr. Chairman, since they're calling from the auditorium, I'm making a line, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u72	That's what I just said. If you heard me, I made a remark to Mr. Mihov, who is calling from the Chamber, and to you, do not enter into a dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u73	It's not at all about whether or not I'm going to be in parliament. It's about whether we have a stable management structure. We don't have any, and that's why we're going to elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u74	Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u75	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, there is a decision that must be taken, which has as a political decision by the ABB, to leave the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin. We are all highly appreciative of his qualities. He, however, takes into account the political decision of the Political Party ABB. There is no debate here today on the substance of social policy...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u76	There, there!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u77	...because at present we all highly appreciate what has been done by Ivaylo Kalfin and the entire government. And the colleagues on the left who expressed their arguments had only one motive for being in opposition and therefore will not support Zornitsa Rusinova as Minister of Labour and Social Policy. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u78	Please don't call from the gym! You'll have a chance to say a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u79	Colleagues, I think you have the right to vote no confidence. Here is a proposal for structural and personal change in the Council of Ministers based on a statement by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin for exiting the current government. I would like to thank fellow Members of the ABB Parliamentary Group, who have praised both what the government is doing today and that they will support social policy under the programme that is set to be implemented.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u80	Why did he leave?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u81	I therefore propose that we focus on voting because I believe that everything else can be seen as populism and not as something real to be offered today by the parliamentary platform. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? I won't. We're closing the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u83	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! Dear trade unions leaders, who are listening to debates today for almost an hour and a half or two, which mention few words of employment and work. First of all, this is not the time, and I have no intention of reporting what the Ministry has done. Of course, each speaker has his reasons for speaking. It worries me that a little bit has been heard about the word "work," about the word "earnings," about the words "doing the workers" and what has happened in recent years. For me only one fact is important: for 2015 Bulgaria is the country in the European Union, where the most rapid growth of income from work and the most rapid reduction of unemployment. We're second in unemployment after Cyprus. Those are the facts. In my opinion, when we talk about politics, they do not connect one to one with economic revival. Obviously, all of us, together with your support, have achieved results in the parliamentary government and opposition. At least we can tell each other what we've done for our country without twisting our soul, because these are clear facts. Yes, we have made very important changes to social legislation. They're probably not indisputable, and there are some things that can be done better. For me, social policy is not a policy that should replace income from work. For me, it should not be a policy with which to raise 50 cents or one lev of social payments, but to have more justice in it. This is what the efforts were aimed at. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Yes, Mr. Stoinev, you can cancel the pension reform, it is your right, but some elections do not clear the memory. You've had this opportunity many times, but you didn't. It was just a year-to-year suspension. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u84	Please, no lines! Mr. Stoinev, I am officially warning you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u85	I must tell you that the way this reform has been adopted is such that whoever decides to change it should explain to people why the entire pension system will be severely destabilized and what it will do with it. Otherwise, everyone is free to do whatever they want. There's a lot of things that have to happen. I will ask the MPs to help Mrs. Rusinova continue and complete the reform of the medical expertise. No one is satisfied with it and the search for a solution must be subject to agreement. The marginalization, the demand for opposition at all costs does not help any person who has a severe illness, because it is for them to go to the care of the state and there is justice, not to preserve the present one and not to push it. I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups, of course, first of all my parliamentary group, the MPs from the ABB. I see that we continue to hinder freedom for the monopoly of some in left-hand space, so it will be in the future. I would like to thank all those who supported the government and supported those important decisions that we have taken in my view the Parliamentary Group of GERB, the Reformation Bloc, the Patriotic Front, the BDZ, the BSP, the Ataka. Whether we have argued, whether we have made the right decisions or the wrong decisions will show the future. For me, what happens with more dialogue, with more content in social policy, should actually continue. Miracles don't work in a day. You can't say to people: "From tomorrow suddenly you will start living wonderfully. But the stubborn road of the state in one direction can actually lead to better well-being of Bulgarian citizens and I am sure that this is the concern of every 240 MPs in the National Assembly, regardless of its political power. Thank you for your work together and I really wish that these things that have been started will be continued. I expect you to support Mrs. Rusinova. There will probably be a lot of people missing in the National Assembly, but please vote on my resignation. It is not an expression of opposition not to vote on the resignation of someone who has already submitted it. That's life. The vote on resignation even shows this negative attitude that you have expressed today. So, in order to be in line with the vote on attitude, please vote on the resignation I have submitted. Thank you. [[The National Representatives of the ABB Parliamentary Group are up. Claps by GERB, RB, PF and ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u86	Mr. Stoinev wants the floor for a personal explanation, then I will give the floor to Mrs. Rusinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kalfin! We at BSP once froze the insanity of pension reform. And we'll do it a second time. [[GERB lines.]] Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is no secret that Bulgaria has the worst possible conditions for retirement. And you know it very well, Mr. Kalfin. Because we are so unfair to this people in these years of transition...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u88	How did you feel affected, Mr. Stoinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u89	They really don't deserve what's happening right now. People can't retire. That is why this pension reform is truly disastrous.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u90	Mr. Stoinev, you're in a procedure for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u91	Yeah, to explain to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u92	Explain what you are personally affected by.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u93	All right, all right! Don't interrupt me, Madame Chairman! What are you interrupting me for?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u94	I will not only interrupt you, but I will also turn off your sound. Don't take that tone with me! [[The President excludes microphones, lines from GERB and from BSP LB.]] You're in a procedure for a personal explanation. Explain to the MPs how you are affected by Mr. Kalfin's words.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u95	I already explained that. If you don't understand, I'll repeat it. [[GERB lines.]] We at BSP once froze the increase in internship and age. And I'm affected because Mr. Kalfin doesn't remember that thing. We'll do it a second time so people can retire. Now they cannot retire with this madness, which was introduced because the average life expectancy of the Bulgarian pensioner is not what it is in Western Europe. And because really people have to take advantage of that right of theirs. So that people will be calm about this injustice, sooner or later called pension reform, will be abolished. Thank you. Do you understand me, Madam President? [[GERB lines, partial applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u96	I am officially giving you a reminder of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly. Emotions are understandable, but I will not allow and will not tolerate them in this Chamber of Parliamentary Tribunes. The way you're going... [[Relations from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] When you request a procedure in the manner of conduct, then I will enter into a dialogue with you. Please do not allow such statements as those regarding the personal explanation. The word is the candidate for minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u97	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u98	I've announced the word "Mrs. Rusinova."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u99	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, deputy prime ministers! For me, social policy has three basic principles: dialogue, activity and empathy. These are the three principles that I believe in the forthcoming term that I will be able to follow in the main areas of labour and social policy. The key word for the labour market, for social inclusion is active support of nearly three million working Bulgarians to find better realization, to have better working conditions, higher incomes, support for the business. Social policy is a policy of people for people. The needs of man are important, the individuality of man is important. This can only happen at the state level through dialogue. At the central level, dialogue with the social partners, central and local level, dialogue with local authorities, dialogue with civil society, dialogue of services within the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with each citizen. Last but not least, empathy, social payment guidance, support schemes for subsidised employment to the most needy where the vulnerable part of our society needs. I would like to thank Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin for the reforms we have launched. Reform in the area of the abolition of institutional care of children, the start of deinstitutionalisation of adults, reform in the field of improving the assessment of the labour expertise of people who have disability are important reforms that I believe should be supported by parliament, must be completed in order to have an effect on all policies that we will implement in the coming months. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Rusinova. Mr. Ermenkov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u101	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister still resigned, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen of parliament! I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct to draw attention to you, Madam President, to the fact that you are inadmissibly interfering with the speech of a Member of the National Assembly who took the floor and started speaking on a personal basis. Because, to remind you of what happened. [[Radio.]] Mr. Kalfin turned to Mr. Stoinev and gave him the suggestion that the Bulgarian Socialist Party had not done the job when she had the opportunity in terms of pension reform, which was a living concern to Mr. Stoinev. [[GERB lines.]] Mr. Stoynev came out on the stand, started explaining to you exactly what it was about and you started interrupting him. By the way, the fact that he is speaking emotionally is for one reason only: for us social statistics, except statistics, which is for you, except numbers, which is for you, is also empathy for the poor, empathy for those who cannot connect both ends [[GERB lines]] And in that connection, we can't help but be emotional. And your emotion here can only be directed against those who criticize you. But you cannot be empathetic in any way, and you cannot understand this emotion and our empathy to the poor. [[Greece and lines from GERB, applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov, for the procedure taken by you in the manner of conduct. I am pleased that, as a result of your clarification, both I and the Chamber understood Mr. Stoinev's statement, because I could not make the connection between his procedure, his behaviour from a place in the hall, perhaps you were out of sight, which caused Minister Kalfin to mention it by name. The debate is closed, the vote is pending. Project for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on changes to the structure of the Council of Ministers Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Article 7 108, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED In a decision of the National Assembly of 7 November 2014 on the adoption of a structure of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria ( SG No. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. point 1 is "1." The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria consists of: Prime Minister, three Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers. The ministers run separate ministries. No editorial proposals have been made on the draft decision. Please vote. They voted 211 MPs: 136 against 70, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u103	Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen! I voted against it because until now social policy has been raised to a high level we had a deputy prime minister. Deputy Prime Minister, who has had the honor of working in our government, that is, we were a little more relaxed. Today, the representatives of BSP left Bulgaria are very worried. Apparently social policy is no longer a priority, so we want Mrs. Rusinova to be deputy prime minister as well. Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u104	Second negative vote? I won't. Project for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? for personal changes to the Council of Ministers' Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 7 November 2014. (DV, No. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed,), Decision on Personal Changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 11 March 2015. (DV, No. 19 of 2015) and the decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 18 December 2015. (DV, No. 101 from 2015) HAS DECIDED 1. He released Ivaylo Georgiev Kalfin as Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. 2. He elected Zornitsa Dimitrova Rusinova as Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Honourable Members, the reasons of the draft decision proposed by the Prime Minister are listed the decisions on personal changes without mentioning the last Decision of 3 February 2016, with which Mrs Kuneva, besides the Deputy Prime Minister, became also Minister of Education and Science. That is why I propose an editorial supplement in the grounds after the Decision of 18 December 2015. (DV, No. 101 from 2015) to record the decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria from 3 February 2016. (DV, No. 11 of 2016) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) It's just that in the reference, the order is not complete. I shall put to the vote first the proposal for an editorial supplement to the grounds and reference to the decisions. The approach should be: either not one decision, but only the basis of the texts of the Constitution, or if we are going to list them all, as the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister have chosen, in particular, we need to supplement the latter. Vote 208 MPs: 135 against 65 abstentions 8. The motion is accepted. I now vote in full on the draft decision on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. They voted 211 MPs: 135, against 68, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u105	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, you should have sat here. [[point out seats for the members of the Council of Ministers]] Not there, but it doesn't matter! I voted against it for a single reason, and it is called a non-existent policy in the social sphere, a non-existent policy in terms of social assistance, in terms of employment, in terms of everything that is related to the poorest and most vulnerable sections of the population. I voted against it, because this resignation, which has now been proposed to us for a vote, is something called a state of affairs. Without insulting the new minister, we will basically change the name, but we will not change the policy that I have heard from him. There is no way we can support something that relates to the continuation of this disastrous policy. There is no way we can support something that is actually statistics and not social policy. What has been shown to us that we have a reduction in unemployment is due not so much to an increase in employment as to a decrease in the population of Bulgaria! When we talk that the incomes of Bulgarian citizens have increased twice, and they are still four times less than the minimum incomes in Europe, this is not something we can boast about! And since we have heard from the stands that this same policy will continue with the same support, with the same majority, we cannot support such a decision! There's one more thing I'd like to say in this regard. I also voted against schizophrenia in our parliament to have an opposition party with ministers in power, on the other hand, to have a party that withdraws ministers, but will continue to support power! So congratulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u106	Second negative vote, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u107	Madam President, colleagues! I voted strongly against it because, first, 2 million 200,000 Bulgarians live below the level of poverty with income below BGN 296.! Another 3 and a half million Bulgarians, honourable colleagues, live with income from 296 to 557 BGN.! The data are from the National Statistical Institute and Eurostat. That is, 80% of the Bulgarian people live below the poverty line according to the Bulgarian standard! Secondly, there is no way to improve social performance since macroeconomic indicators have gone down categorically. With 8% in the first quarter of the year, exports fall, especially in countries outside the European Union! Foreign investments in the first quarter, colleagues, are five or six times less than in the same period of 2015! Sixteen billion savings of companies and citizens stand frozen in banks, first because there is no investment demand, and second because there is no consumption! Next, the debt of the state grew by 16 billion in three years and we entered the debt spiral. According to the United Nations, here is the assessment of the social and economic policy of the government, the human development index, which everyone can read from the report for each year, Bulgaria has come down three places and from 180 countries and several countries we are 59th place 2015. Dear colleagues, we are looking at Romania, Kazakhstan, Belarus, Russia, Montenegro, Barbados, Antigua and Barbuda in the Caribbean. And speaking of the Caribbean, I'm ending up with a popular Caribbean refrain, and you remember it. This is the song "One way ticket" and this one-way ticket is for early elections. Bon voyage!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u108	Mr. Boychev, third negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I voted against this government as it was born through a deal, agreements and distribution of power. Although it has put on its label of stability, honourable Members, you are giving birth to a management crisis after a crisis. For a year and a half, we have witnessed the third personal change in this government. And even worse, in one year, you've replaced a minister three times, and you claim to be a government of stability. I voted against it because it became clear that in no way will this personal change change change the nature of the antisocial and anti-human policy conducted by this government. Most importantly, I voted against it, as today's vote clearly outlines who supports this government and who is opposition. From now on, the responsibility for every day in the power of this government, which is to the detriment of Bulgaria and condemns the future of our next generations, will weigh on the conscience of all those who have pressed the button today for........................................................................ Because you can only do one thing: to accumulate debts that future generations will pay. After the 16 billion you took for the government, [[noise and lines]] You voted for a government guarantee of 1 billion for your national renovation programme, you voted another 1 billion for the Bulgarian energy sector, now you will vote another 1 billion to fill in the citizens' voucher. That's all you can do! But your time is gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u110	Colleagues, I invite Mrs. Rusinova to take an oath. Please repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u111	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u112	Congratulations, Madam Secretary! Colleagues, we're moving on to next point. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u113	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! I propose that the deadline be extended by two weeks between the first and second votes of the Law on the National Emergency System adopted by a single European number 112.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u114	I put to the vote the proposal made to extend the period of proposals between the first and second votes. Vote 128 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving to the second point of our weekly program: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO TERMINATE THE POWER OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. With an application, I'm in. No 654-00-73 of 18 May 2016, Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin informed me and asked that his powers be terminated as a Member of the National Assembly in the Forty-third National Assembly of 18 May 2016. On the basis of this request, I propose to your attention a service project for: ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends Ivaylo Georgiev's authority Kalfin as MP from the twenty-fiveth election district Sofia. Are there any MPs who wish to take part in the Draft Decision? I won't. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the draft decision I introduced you to. They voted 120 MPs: 115, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, in relation to the personal changes made to the Council of Ministers, and after the adoption of the decision, Mr Kalfin automatically restored his powers as MP. The mandate of Mariana Georgieva Todorova as a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-Fiveth Election Region, Sofia, which was elected by Decision No 1358-NS of the Central Election Commission of 10 November 2014, is terminated after the decision on the early termination of Mr. Kalfin's powers as a Member of Parliament. It will again follow the Central Election Commission to announce the next one on the list of the ABB party, as the reasons are different under the Election Code. Moving to point three of our weekly program: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SELECTED CODEX, ACCEPTED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 28 APRIL 2016 AND RETURNED FOR A NEW DISCLOSURE WITH SAYN No 127 of 9 MAY 2016 OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Procedure Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u115	Mrs. Chairman! As I see that my colleague Daniel Kirilov is again preparing to report on the draft decision, I would like to remind you that last time I recalled the incident concerning the false content document which was submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs. [[Noise and lines.]] You know that according to art. 22 of our Rules of Procedure the only possibility to withdraw a chairman of a committee is based on the volition of the parliamentary group that has done so. I would like to say that the provision of the word to Mr. Kirilov again considers it a provocation by you, Madam President, to the BSP parliamentary group and a violation of the rules of employment in our Chamber. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u116	Dear Mr. Boychev, it is good that you know the number of art. 22. I remind you and I will remind you of this until you understand this text: there are several hypotheses for termination of the duties of presidents or vice-chairmen of permanent committees. The first one is on their application. No application. The second, on a proposal from more than half of the members of the Commission, if they are objectively unable to fulfil their obligations for a period of six months, or if they are systematically overturned, or if they are systematically failing to fulfil their obligations. There isn't one. Third, on a written proposal from the parliamentary group from whose quota they have been selected in the Commission. Not only will there not be, we stand by Mr. Kirilov! If you allow yourself, in subsequent meetings, to abuse the procedural rights you hold under the Rules of Procedure for competences beyond your volition, you will be sanctioned in view of the disciplinary measures applied under our Rules. [[Applause from GERB.]] The way you're holding Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u117	Madam President, I'm addressing you. I don't mind being sanctioned as many times as you think. My only question is: how are you going to sanction a behaviour that deceives the parliamentary chamber? How will you sanction conduct when reading documents that are falsely composed from this tribune? Would you also answer this question as President of the National Assembly, reading the rules for our work and procedures, is it not most important to be guided by both principles and morality? Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u118	The principles and morals are implicitly contained in all legal texts and norms, including the rules of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, but your claims are premature, citing documents such as false documents,.... with false content. [[Noise and lines.]] This can only be established on the basis of a proper authority in special proceedings. In front of you is Mrs. Ninova, who is a lawyer and knows these things. Talk to the chairman of your group. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The President of the Commission has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u119	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! May I have your attention, please? ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 127 of 9 May 2016 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 10 May 2016, on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code adopted by the National Assembly on 28 April 2016. At a meeting held on 17 May 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Decree No 127 of 9 May 2016 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 10 May 2016, on a return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code adopted by the National Assembly on 28 April 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ilarion Ilarionov, Advisor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and Mrs. Anna Nikolova, Senior Legal Consultant to the Directorate of Legal Affairs, Mr. Ilarion Ilarionov, Advisor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mrs. Anton Angelov and Mrs. Yordan Zlatev; Mrs. Antoaneta Tsoneva; Mrs. Desislava Hristova, Mrs. Sylvia Attova, Mrs. Galya Stoyanova and Mrs. Polly Genova. Polly Genova wasn't actually present, couldn't make it. The President of the Committee on Legal Affairs Danail Kirilov reported to the members of the Commission the Decree of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the President returns to the National Assembly the provision of § 8 concerning Art. 14, para. 1, para. 2 and para. 3 and related § 5, t. 2, § 6 and § 7 of the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code. The President's reasons show that the amendments and additions to the Election Code do not allow the formation of polling stations outside the territory of the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Bulgaria, except in the cases provided for in art. 14, para. Two and three. The order of Art. 14, para. 1 shall not introduce explicit restrictions on the number of sections which may be disclosed in the territory of diplomatic and consular offices. Due to the restrictions on the territory for opening sections in certain cases, this will inevitably lead to factual restrictions on the exercise of active selective rights of citizens. The legislation of the foreign state may allow for the opening of sections outside diplomatic and consular representations, but the Bulgarian state sets itself a limit. Our diplomatic and consular offices do not always allow for a sufficient number of sections to be found. According to the President, there is no legislative decision on how the selection committees will act if on election day there are more citizens who cannot exercise their right to vote. In accordance with art. 33 para. 2 of the Election Code of Elections, which is not listed on the list of candidates for voting but is entitled to vote on the citizens who are 18 years old, with the exception of those who have been incarcerated and who are suffering imprisonment pursuant to art. 42, para. 1 of the Constitution, such a citizen shall be added to the list by the sectary electoral committee after submitting an identity document and a declaration on the model that he meets the conditions to choose. The order of Art. 14, para. 2 provides that in settlements in the Member States of the European Union, where there are no diplomatic and consular representations, as many sections as are necessary, should no less than 100 voters submit applications be disclosed. When the number of voters is more than 500, there will be as many polling stations as the number 500 is contained in the number of voters according to art. 15 of the Election Code. The latter provision will not be able to be applied in all cases of art. 14, para. 1 as well as under Art. 14, para 3. With the provision of art. 14, para. A limit is introduced for the formation of only one polling section in settlements with a population of more than 1 million. residents in countries which are not members of the European Union and in which there is no diplomatic or consular representation. According to § 8, which rearranges the conditions and arrangements for forming sections abroad, does not comply with Article 8. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which restricts the active selective right of Bulgarian citizens, based on their personal situation, the place of residence abroad. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria in its judgment No 14 of 10 November 1992 in Constitutional Case No 14 of 1992 indicated that equality before the law meant equality of all citizens before the law and an obligation for their equal treatment by the state authorities. The equality of all citizens before the law is a fundamental principle of any democratic society. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 2 The equality of citizens before the law is formulated as a constitutional principle, which is the foundation of civil society and the state. It is the basis for the interpretation and implementation of the Constitution and for the norm-making activity. Restrictions on the exercise of individual rights of citizens are admissible under the Constitution and the practice of the Constitutional Court. The President points out that the restrictions must be socially necessary and proportionate, as a priority there should be a safeguard of the principle of equality of all citizens before the law. As a guarantee of this, the Constitution accurately indicates the social signs for which no different treatment is allowed. The organisation and production of elections involving the Bulgarian citizens aims to elect state authorities in accordance with the principles of universal, equal and direct selective right by secret ballot. With the limitation of the possibility of opening sections abroad, the principle of equal selective law is not respected and it cannot be accepted as proportionate. A fundamental element of the principle of proportionality is the requirement that the restriction be reasonable and not exceed the extent necessary to achieve the legitimate objective concerned. Compared to the current requirements, the new conditions for opening polling stations outside the country are restrictive and do not account for the number of the Bulgarian community, but are set according to the implementation of formal criteria. They will have the consequence of creating obstacles in exercising the right to vote, which cannot be supported as a final effect. The state must create rules that guarantee the utmost honesty of the elections, while providing optimal opportunity for Bulgarian citizens to exercise their right to vote. It is understandable that the possibilities for exercising the selective right of citizens in the country and abroad are different. Abroad, the Bulgarian state, depending on administrative and financial opportunities, creates conditions for our compatriots to vote, but this should not be at the expense of their unequal treatment. With each passing year, turnout is increased abroad thanks to the efforts of the state institutions involved in the organization of elections and the Bulgarian communities. The retreat from what has been achieved is inexplicable and unacceptable. People's representatives Philip Popov, Peter Slavov, Christian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov, Mithat Metin, Dimitar Delchev, Dimitar Lazarov and Daniel Kirilov took part in the discussion. Ms. Petya Tiankova pointed out that the amendments adopted in the Election Code introduced restrictions which are not proportionate to the public legitimate objective pursued by the State, namely achieving equal conditions in the exercise of active selective law. In the course of the discussion Mr. Popov noted that in view of art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria believes that the veto of the President concerns the return of the entire Law and not of separate provisions. He expressed his negative opinion on the readmission of the Election Code and noted that the norm of art. 14 is discriminatory and there are other problematic and unconstitutional provisions in the adopted Law, as well as that it is unacceptable for the legislator to restrict the right of every Bulgarian to exercise his right to vote. Mr Metin also expressed a negative opinion on the adopted texts of the Election Code, as he considered some of them unconstitutional and pointed out that the veto of the President should include other texts of the Law. In response to a question put by Mr. Christian Mitev, Mrs. Petya Tyankova pointed out that there is a parliamentary practice regarding cases in which a bill is contested in principle and those in which specific texts are challenged. She pointed out that in this case the President has taken into account the advantages of the adopted Bill, especially with regard to its electronic remote voting, and therefore specific provisions have been challenged in the Decree. Mr. Kirilov added that a deliberate procedure in cases of contested individual texts is also provided for in art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mr. Petar Slavov urged the MPs to seek a solution to support the presidential veto in order to expand the means of democratic and free voting and thus reduce the controlled vote. People's representative Dimitar Delchev noted that the desire of Bulgarian citizens living abroad should be granted to be able to exercise their right to vote without feeling financial, social and logistical difficulties, as well as to limit the interference of other countries. Representatives of civil organisations presented their views in support of the President's Decree. After the discussion was concluded with 2 votes.......................... 3 votes against................................................................................................... and 7 votes........................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Election Code should not be re-enacted and held a new discussion of its contested provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A lot of things were said yesterday at the Legal Commission. You heard a lot of them in the report. Let me remind you that there the president's veto received support. It seems to me that it has received support not so much because the President has exercised his constitutional right to veto, but because it has expressed a sensitivity to the thesis of our countrymen abroad. "Those who have been voting freely and fighting for it for years to have more sections in democratic countries so that they can vote freely, their voice can be heard and not limited because of the systematic electoral violations that we see in a neighbouring country. I think the colleagues from the Patriotic Front and the thesis they're putting on has been heard, and clearly by everyone. This problem, which has been swept under the carpet for years, mainly on the left, but also with the help of the DPS, is finally on the agenda. [[Reply of MP Hamid Hamid.]] We need to think about how our countrymen abroad can vote freely once and at the same time not to allow electoral violations, and it is outrageous electoral violations for hundreds, not to say thousands of votes in a particular country. My proposal, fellow Members, is to take the opportunity that this presidential veto gives us to return these texts to juvie and thus, once it is supported, to review them again in the Legal Commission and to change them in the direction of free vote throughout the world for our compatriots and at the same time serious sanctions, responsibility in places where systematic violations of the electoral process are allowed and its honesty and objectivity are questioned. It's another matter that matters to me. I can see they've narrowed it down to the left. Although there were 31 votes that voted at the previous point in Mr. Kalfin's resignation, it is very interesting whether we will not observe a sharp turn from the position that yesterday was claimed by the representative of the BSP in the Legal Commission, namely that they will support the presidential veto, voting against the four paragraphs in question, which have been returned to juvie. So, colleagues on the left, I will be watching you very closely. Your chairman, by the way, at the previous point, drew attention to how you have been a very consistent opposition. For me, consistency means by stepping up a position and officially stating it at a meeting of the Legal Commission, in front of so many people yesterday, guests and representatives of all institutions, standing up for yourself afterwards in plenary, not trying to make party fins. My concern is that something like this is going to happen, even if the lines on the left will become even more dim when the voting time comes. I mean, there's going to be a cover-up behind the non-voting, and there's not going to be any support for the stated position yesterday. Once again, colleagues, consistency means standing up for yourself, not in the Legal Committee to say one thing, in plenary, to do a second, and I don't know if there is a new Congress of BSP tomorrow to do a third. This is not consistent for me, so I urge you to be really consistent. And to bring the subject back to the substance of the debate, for me and for the colleagues from the civil quota in the Reformation bloc, there are two ways to solve the problem. One of the problematic texts is to be returned to juvie by supporting the presidential veto and to be immediately revised within a week or two and to take into account the arguments of our countrymen from abroad. This is one time, and for me, it's the right way and the right way. The next time, of course, is through a separate legislative initiative with longer deadlines to change these texts in the same way. It's worse if we choose this road, colleagues. This would mean to a large extent that we do not want to hear the arguments put forward by our fellow citizens abroad, even though we essentially agree with them by changing these texts a little later. For me, the real, democratic approach in this case is to support the veto, to correct the texts as quickly as possible and to show that there is a hearing and that Parliament really listens to the correct, correct arguments of our countrymen abroad, which are largely highlighted in this presidential veto. What I want to finish with is that we are all aware of what huge potential for the nation represents this large Bulgarian community abroad, which, unfortunately, is often fragmented. Think about it, just in the example of the events of the last days, from the vote on Eurovision, see how many of our compatriots reacted quickly, organized through social networks and supported our representative in a clear and unambiguous way, so that the definition, which many media then gave... except that the song was very good, it really won the hearts of the audience, of the audience, of the voters, of the people voted. Let us look for ways to unite the Bulgarian community abroad, to involve it, because there is the huge potential for the Bulgarian nation to develop and become stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! The drafting of amendments to the Election Code, as proposed in a set of the ruling majority, was rejected by the Bulgarian Socialist Party as an approach, as a philosophy and as an understanding of how the elections should be produced in Bulgaria. The adopted Election Code is a scandalous whole, regarding the treatment of the rights of Bulgarian citizens and regarding the treatment of Bulgarian citizens in general. The introduction of the mandatory vote is a matter which goes beyond any democratic thinking citizen's presentation of how the legislative power in the country should be formed. The introduction of mandatory voting is a scandalous act because it exceeds the opportunities for Bulgarian legislation, Bulgarian citizens to be citizens... [[Field lines]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u124	Mr. Zablyanov, the president's veto does not affect what you're talking about. Please focus on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u125	I believe that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly............................................................................................ 81, does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where it is intended to return the entire legislative act and not just a separate article. And because the National Assembly in today violates these Rules, violates the Constitution and we accept the veto of the Head of State, which treats only one member of the Constitution, I consider the whole discussion paradoxical. BSP believes that the whole legislation should be considered, and once it has been returned from the President, it cannot be considered only art. 14. So I started with the changes that were made, especially for the mandatory vote. I believe that the Bulgarian Parliament and the majority obliged, in an unprecedented way, Bulgarian citizens to go to elections, a practice known only, mainly in totalitarian regimes. [[Replying from PF.]] I say mostly in authoritarian regimes. I take your note a little bit. I don't think it's a democratic practice. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Mr. President did not notice this amendment to the Election Code and decided to return only art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u126	That's his right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u127	Yeah, of course it's his right. That's why he was elected head of state. I am interested when we refer to the citation of the violation of citizens' rights, why is this being done selectively by the Head of State? Secondly, I want to focus on the motives. The President's motives for returning to art. 14 and for how to vote abroad, to put it mildly, are weak. Firstly, the mechanism for revealing sections abroad, as provided for in the Law, does not in any way restrict citizens' constitutional rights. Yes, this procedure can make it difficult to vote, it can cost the movement of one citizen from one place to another at the expense of his personal budget, but it does not restrict constitutional rights. The rights of citizens with art. 14 are not taken away! It seems to me that this shows, which I do not want to allow, a complete misunderstanding by the Head of State and his legal team, what constitutional rights of citizens mean. The revocation of constitutional rights would be if the vote was banned outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. This can now be seen as a limitation of constitutional rights. However, contesting the procedure itself for revealing the sections does not mean that constitutional rights are being revoked. The limitation of the possibility of opening sections abroad is not respected in the President's motives and cannot be accepted as proportionate. I would reward anyone who could interpret that sentence in the President's motives. If you have not heard it carefully, I urge you to take the motives and try to understand the sentence or the one who wrote it. What is this principle of proportionality in the realization of citizens' rights? Where is it recorded, who invented it and who put it in Mr. Head of State that such a principle exists? There are many comic texts in the motives that are before me that have neither legal nor logical nor any other character, but are simply a collection of words. Those aren't motives. This is a political position of the President. The considerations in it are entirely of political nature and not of constitutionality. It seems to me that the President's motives with which the bill has been returned are entirely untenable because, as it is written, referring to the constitution's preamble, where equality has been proclaimed as a common value along with freedom, peace, humanism, justice that stands at the heart of civil society and the state, which of which is broken by changes in the Election Code? Which one's broken?! What takes away the right of the Bulgarian citizen living in Frankfurt by landing at Sofia airport to go vote or go from Frankfurt to Berlin and vote at the consulate or at the embassy? How's his right taken away, I'd like to ask?! How he was taken away from his right. It seems to me that Mr. President and his experts, who are obviously behind the preparation of this text, speculate or do not understand, but both are bad for the Head of State, with what it means to revoke rights. The second issue is related to the organisation of voting abroad, this is now a completely different issue, and to what extent the Bulgarian legislation or the Election Code that we are adopting today regulates this issue. That's the second side of the question. However, I do not believe that, with the reasons for rejecting the Bill, it can be rejected. It can be challenged in terms of appropriateness: how many Bulgarian citizens in one case can vote abroad at X number of sections and how many Bulgarian citizens can vote at X times 100 sections. That's a completely different question. And here, I think, is the only reasonable limit. The only reasonable measure is compliance with the Law and the application of the Law outside the territory of Bulgaria, as it applies in Bulgaria. And here are some valid questions. On what electoral lists are elections produced abroad? Are these electoral lists part of the electoral list on which Bulgarian citizens vote in the country? They're obviously not part of this electoral list. Apparently, they form in a different way. Why didn't that make an impression on Mr. President? Are Bulgarian citizens treated equally in this case, since I am not on the electoral list in my section, where I go to vote, and if I have not checked myself before then and so on with the question of the additions, a completely different procedure than the way the lists are drawn up abroad? How is citizenship and the person certified when voting abroad? Who are the organs that control this thing? We actually have two different choices. Yes, indeed there is a difference, Mr. President, but it is not in favor of the citizens who live in the Republic of Bulgaria. And one more question at the end, I think, has to do with the issue of citizenship and its status at all. In fact, all Bulgarian citizens are equal in rights and obligations according to the Constitution of the country. However, in terms of the application and exercise of these rights, it is of great importance where citizens live. Because part of the rights that I have as a Bulgarian citizen, if I live in another country, outside the territory of Bulgaria, I do not exercise them or part of the obligations I do not exercise them, not for other reasons, but for purely spatial and physical reasons. That is, we have in fact two categories of citizens. Yeah, we're all equal under the Constitution, but we actually have two categories. That's not regulated in the Constitution. This is where the ambiguity comes from. And here is, of course, the attempt for the President to solve a personal political maybe or some group issue with some ill-conceived motives, with manipulation and a misunderstanding of what citizens' rights mean and with an attempt to replace the actual issue. And it is this: can the Bulgarian state organise the electoral process outside its territory and guarantee its authenticity, that is to say that Bulgarian citizens are involved there with free will and with the opportunity to express their political views and preferences? That's the real question. And it seems to me that there is no such possibility in the current foreign election organization. Therefore, this Election Code with these amendments may not be in the best way, but is trying to correct these shortcomings. The president's veto is untenable. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u128	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u129	Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I would like to compliment you on the wonderful speech that was very motivated and expressed a great deal of the motives that the Patriotic Front intended to develop from this tribune. However, at the beginning of this meeting, a colleague of yours spoke of some form of political schizophrenia...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u130	Please, a line to Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u131	... which happens at times and I can't understand: You're actually going to support the presidential veto for something that's not there as motives in it? I mean, that's kind of getting lost in a political position. My appeal to the political party you represent is...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u132	Please, to Mr. Jablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u133	...to reconsider his position. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u134	Please, to Mr. Zablyanov's line!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u135	To him is the line!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u136	All the time, you turn to a political power that you support his speech, and the line is a disagreement with his speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u137	The disagreement is exactly in the position that this veto should be confirmed by the National Assembly, because, on the contrary, it must be rejected because of all these motives that he set out. There is not a single argument by the president that is valid, as you yourself said, and it would be a sign of political schizophrenia to support this veto. That's my line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u138	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Here you are, Mr. Bojinov, for a line. I'm asking you to disagree with what Mr. Zablyanov said.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u139	I'll start with the consent and then the disagreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u140	No, the line is a disagreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u141	Don't edit me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u142	Read your rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman! What I would like to replicate is the honourable colleague Zablyanov, who otherwise very accurately expressed the position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, from which it becomes clear, gentlemen of the Patriotic Front, that neither the Law deserves to be supported by rejection of the president's veto, nor the president's veto deserves to be supported by the self-respecting politician and that is the schizophrenicity of this situation. But, Mr. Zablyanov, you correctly appreciated both the Law and its shortcomings, and the weakness and consistency of the President's motives. However, you are talking about selectivity, about the political discrepancy of the President, and you have said nothing about this concerned about the possibility of the citizens to vote a president who does not notice and nothing says about those practices that are not rejected by the Law to fake the elections themselves, which do not give the impression that there is no criminal responsibility for those who forge the electoral protocols and this reveals this duality. So are you ready in the back to develop your thesis and on this flaw, so that the position that I will support is fully clear? And I will personally not vote for the Law or for the president's veto.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. For the third line "The People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Zablyanov! First of all, I would like to congratulate you on this speech and the analysis you have made. What do I disagree with? I do not agree with your view on the work carried out in relation to the electoral lists abroad. What was the achievement of this Legal Commission on the work of voting Bulgarians abroad? Until now, there have been no electoral lists abroad. Under this Code, which is currently in operation, the electoral lists have been dropped. In fact, in the last elections abroad, the electoral list began on a white sheet of paper. Whoever goes and appears is recorded. Of course, in some cases, this creates a huge opportunity for manipulation, especially for those organizers of an unregulated vote, which have the data of fakes or possible voters. What did the task force propose? She proposed, and this is reflected in the neighbouring of the attacked art. 14 texts, voting applications shall serve as the beginning of the electoral lists. We have also done a great deal of work on the location of these applications so that they can be properly directed and individualised in terms of sections that can be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Zablyanov. Your replicators have gone beyond veto range, but so have you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u147	What to do, that's the question. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bojinov, I fully support your conclusion, it is no secret. The President's dual attitude to the election process has been demonstrated by the fact that several elections for the National Assembly were forged before his eyes. I won't comment on what his own choice looked like. The President's position, including in these motives, proves his absolute unprincipledness in the matter. He aims to solve a political issue that he considers his own cause, nothing more! He does not want the electoral process in Bulgaria to improve in any way and to acquire other dimensions. The second question is about the position of BSP. The Bulgarian Socialist Party will not participate in the vote and this is our position. I started with our arguments when I stated that we do not accept the introduction of the mandatory vote. We want a new debate on the Election Code because compulsory voting is a violation of other rights and violation of constitutional texts. However, this is a separate topic and I do not want to raise it. These are our motives for shaping our position. The third question addressed by Mr. Kirilov about the work carried out on the lists abroad. Yes, I agree, there must be work done. It is better to have some list to start with than a white sheet of paper, but it actually means another voting regime again, because it is an active selective right. Isn't that right, Mr. Kirilov, since you're going and applying that you want to vote? And the other Bulgarian citizens are voting on the lists. So which of these things is going to be over with the president's veto?! Therefore, this is not about a sincere act of the Head of State's concern for the equality of Bulgarian citizens. I am sure that each of us hardly comes from any other presumption when talking about the equality of Bulgarian citizens before the Constitution and before the laws. Each of us would like to exercise our political rights because this is what our modern society and state are building on. However, this should be authentic, serving the interests of citizens rather than the interests of specific groups who simply want to take power through elections. Elections are secondary. That's it! Last but not least, the issue of the state sovereignty and the security of the Bulgarian state the elections have a direct bearing on the formation of the state power. This is a question which seems to me to be entirely the competence of the President and he should be ruling in the opposite direction, rather than sending us such untenable motives written by magistrates in the relevant scientific disciplines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u148	The weather, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u149	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Dear colleagues, in the Club of the Member of the National Assembly a post office will be validated from the Boteva reading of the ship on the Kosloduy coast. The initiative is part of a series of events marking 140 years of the April Uprising and the feat of Botev and his reading. All MPs are invited to attend the ceremony. It's quarter to twelve. Rest till 12.15. We continue with speeches by the MPs Radan Kanev, Philip Popov and Georgi Kadiev. [[DPS lines.]] From DPS Chetin Kazak, Ramadan Atali and Jayhan Ibryamov. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u151	The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber, the time for interruption is up. Honourable Members, the meeting is continuing. The word for speech in the order of the requests is Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u152	Madam President, honourable Members! Democrats for strong Bulgaria will support the veto imposed by President Plevneliev without prior conditions. I will give brief arguments, essentially, without commenting on whether the norm is unconstitutional or not. Firstly, with regard to the effect of voting in Turkey. The current text, which the President vetoed, as well as the texts that the couloirs hear are agreed as an alternative to the respect of the veto, will not result in any decrease in the votes of the Republic of Turkey. And not only because there is the possibility of transporting voters, but because they do not restrict the sections where the big crowd of Bulgarian citizens in the Republic of Turkey is. That means the votes from Turkey will come back. Everything else is populism for people who cannot understand that there is no such restriction. Secondly, the votes in the European Union. At first glance, most European Union citizens will be a little difficult to vote on. Still troubled. However, the reaction that there is a limitation of the sections has a limitation of the existing liberal regime will most likely lead to a significant withdrawal from the elections, as in Turkey, if it is true that the vote is controlled, it will not be observed. In other words, the same votes will come from Turkey, the same votes will come from Europe for the DPS. In general, however, the vote in the European Union will decrease, in all likelihood very radically in London if the current model of voting is not maintained. Thirdly, the third big Bulgarian diaspora in the United States of America will be completely cut and cut off from the opportunity to participate in the Bulgarian political process. The doors of the Bulgarian participation policy will be closed on it. But more important is not the effect on the percentages, but the effect on the Bulgarian society. If we today, or more precisely, if you today reject the veto of President Plevneliev, you will give a nightmare to the entire Bulgarian diaspora, you will signal that the Bulgarian political elite in increasingly large quotes is not interested in its destiny, does not regard it as part of the Bulgarian nation, does not want to depend on its voices because it cannot control them that it does not want the Bulgarian nation in its different geographical dimensions to live together. First of all, it would break the heart of these few thousand of our compatriots, who were gathering with their own efforts, with their own resources, raising money to find sections, looking for where a section could be found, gathering applications, getting acquainted, creating new communities for several months. Communities that are now once again united to support President Plevneliev's veto. These communities will be broken in their desire to be part of the Bulgarian political nation. There is one more effect without reducing the votes from Turkey, there will be a severe insult to Bulgarian citizens of Turkish ethnic origin living in Bulgaria. Because they are told in their eyes that their cousins on the other side of the border work against the Bulgarian national interest. The Bulgarian nation will be divided within Bulgaria because the assumption is introduced that every Bulgarian citizen expelled from communist terror in the late 1980s is currently working against the national interest of Bulgaria. On top of that, it is said that these relatives of Bulgarian citizens living in Bulgaria who today live in Bursa, in Izmir, around Istanbul, around Edirne, that these people are retarded and Erdogan can tell them how to vote. It is very strange to me that Erdogan failed to tell them how to vote in the Turkish national elections and they voted on them against Erdogan, only that they would vote on Erdogan's order in the Bulgarian national elections. Our fellow citizens, banished to Turkey, some of them most likely serve foreign services and so on, must have protection against this, but they are not imbeciles and they are against Erdogan in both Turkish national policy and Bulgarian politics. And this is what I want to remind those who were doing an aggressive campaign against the Reformation Block because, you see, the NPSD was a formation under Erdogan's control. How many votes did we get in Turkey? Seven thousand votes. How much did the DPS take that was against Erdogan? Fifty thousand votes. So much for the stupidity of Erdogan and Bulgarian politics. But there is something much more important here. The unity of the Bulgarian nation between living inside Bulgaria and living abroad and the unity of the Bulgarian nation between different ethnicities and faiths in the territory of Bulgaria are the main national issues that we are facing because otherwise the demographic catastrophe will sweep away both the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian nation if we do not see people outside the borders of Bulgaria as part of Bulgaria. For this reason, this stomping of horses, which is currently being observed, who should prevail over several commas in the Law and who to whom to impose their will, is essentially not merely a threat to the stability of the floating majorities and of the floating government in this Parliament, but a threat to the national interests and national security of Bulgaria. And to conclude, colleagues, I will return to patriotism and national tasks and remind you of one thing that I have not heard in recent weeks of patriotic debate. Bulgaria is a special state of the Bulgarian national anthem is written outside the borders of the Bulgarian state. He was written by a Bulgarian living abroad on the train with which he returned to his homeland to fight for its compound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u153	First line, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u154	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kanev, I still don't know if your pathos are theatrical or real, but as if this is the only thing that may remain after your speech, because there were no facts in it, there were no arguments. There were lies. First lie: it will have no effect on Turkey's vote, it will not decrease. From now on, the Law of Election Code has been adopted, in Turkey there will be eight sections. Maybe you should tell me in the back how it won't reduce the votes from 139 sections. You may not have a lot of mathematics, but you'll still have to try to answer that question. Secondly: Bulgarians living in the European Union will be difficult to vote on. You should also argue, because the texts in this Code, which we have adopted and has not yet entered into force, do not restrict the Bulgarians in the European Union in any way. On the contrary, there is an opportunity to find countless sections. Read carefully the texts we have voted on. Third: what would be the effect for the Bulgarian society? A nightmare sign to the Bulgarian communities abroad?! A little careful with the epithets, because a little later you talk about unity, talk about some togetherness and so on. What nightmares are you talking about? Again, phrases, accusations, epithets and assessments without argument. It is not right for a responsible MP to express himself in this way. And if I have to add the nightmares for the Bulgarians abroad are the talking heads of the "Protest Network" who have usurped the right to speak on behalf of all Bulgarians abroad. On what grounds? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, The cousins of the Bulgarian Turks you do not mean them. They're voting exactly the way we've spoken everywhere so far and we've argued because we have facts, we've seen them vote. Just like a herd, as you mentioned. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In conclusion, last sentence. Calling for unity of the Bulgarian nation, I do not see how you will achieve it with the definitions of the Bulgarian peoples, the...................................... and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u155	Mr. Karakachanov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u156	Some of the arguments Mr. Simeonov took the floor. I will say that I liked the thesis on the unity of the Bulgarian nation. For 25 years I have been talking about the unity of the Bulgarian nation, but I do not understand it as a unity between those who, leaving Bulgaria, said: They don't think about the Bulgarian nation, believe me. The Bulgarian nation lives in some geographic borders, some of which are neighbouring countries of Bulgaria. However, if we are concerned about the unity of the Bulgarian nation, we should talk about the real problems of the Bulgarian historical minorities in Macedonia, in the Western suburbs, in Ukraine, where there are half a million Bulgarians in Moldova! We need to think about the new Bulgarian emigration and not listen to 5 people who represent themselves on its behalf. You know very well that some of them were ready to become vice presidents, well, exceptionally, MPs, however. Others suggested proposals on how to conduct the electronic vote. These people do not count them as representatives of the Bulgarian nation because I do not know how it is in your party, but we have structures in American cities in the US, in Canada, in Europe. These people are of a completely different opinion and do not agree with anyone speaking on their behalf. So the Bulgarians outside Bulgaria think before jumping, unlike some who jump first without thinking. Speaking of the unity of the Bulgarian nation and the problems of the Bulgarian communities, who after 1990 left Bulgaria, they left Bulgaria because there is nothing to work here. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] These people were looking for their livelihood. Their real problems are how their children can receive education in Bulgarian so that the diplomas they receive can be valid in the European Union and in other countries. These are the real problems of the Bulgarian nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u157	Third line, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u158	Dear Mr. Kanev, I would believe your statement if the words did not differ with the cases. I would like to ask you just one simple question: since you are so opposed to the introduction of these restrictions, why did colleagues from the DSB not once but twice support their introduction during the vote at second reading? Somehow, there's a serious gap between what you're saying and what's really happening at DSB. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u159	A hole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u160	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Regarding Mr. Gajev's last question, it is good that the President gave the entire Bulgarian Parliament the opportunity to correct its mistakes and this goes through respect for his veto. With regard to Mr. Simeonov's remark, there is a difference in the European Union and it has been repeatedly commented between us that in cities with diplomatic and consular representations, the possibility of forming sections outside these diplomatic and consular representations is not allowed. It was no accident that I paid particular attention to London, because in my previous speech from the stand on the substance of the Law, I gave the example of London at the moment there is a very strong reaction. With regard to Turkey, it is not true that there will be only eight sections. You yourself repeatedly said that 40 sections could fit in a diplomatic and consular representation. Let's recall that Edirne has a consulate, Istanbul has an embassy, Bursa has a consulate, Ankara has a consulate. Izmir is the only city in which it will be difficult to vote, but it has a population of over 1 million people - 2.5 million, i.e. Izmir will not be difficult to vote. In fact, the number of voters will decrease very little in Turkey. About what Mr. Karakachanov said. We have a lot in common with him, and that makes me happy, but I don't understand why it leads to a different vote. Geographical limits, for better or worse, the Bulgarian nation has long been gone. One third of the Bulgarian nation has been deployed outside the borders of the country, in various places in the world, mostly in the rich countries of the Western world. Naturally, we all know where the largest communities are.. we do not need to repeat it now. I gave concrete examples of communities in Northern California, around San Francisco, with West Florida, there are between tens and hundreds of thousands, for which the nearest voting point will be on a few hours of flight if the rules voted so far remain. With regard to Ukraine and Moldova, I stress, on the currently voted Law, which I want to fall, with respect for the presidential veto, they are in Turkey's situation, only there are much less Bulgarian consulates there. In other words, it will be much more difficult for our fellow citizens to vote on much less cities with a population of over 1 million people. In other words, we also restrict the rights of our compatriots in Ukraine and Moldova. With regard to the repeated argument about the Protest Network, some speakers who have usurped the topic and so on, do not manipulate. Yesterday came out the universal petition of all Bulgarian schools abroad, of those people who perform [[the President signals that time has run out]] the real apostolic and enlightenment work unanimously in support of the veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u161	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. In order to alternate representatives of different parliamentary groups who have spoken, Mr. Chetin Kazak has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! What the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms expressed as an opinion, as a position during the vote on amendments to the Election Code, came true. From this tribune, we have stated that the hasty, chaotic adoption of amendments to the Election Code of Meetings until late nights of the Legal Committee and extended National Assembly meetings will become a premature child and this has proved to be true. We now see that you, too, of the parliamentary majority, have become convinced that you have already stated that there have been some shortcomings, some errors in the Election Code. When we were the strongest and most violent opposition to the adoption of unconstitutional texts in the Election Code or leaving without correcting texts that exist in the current one, you all unanimously closed your eyes and supported them, voted, accepted them. When we expressed our expectation that the President would exercise his authority and veto this unconstitutional, anti-democratic act, you all expressed your conviction that this would not happen. We're glad the president still listened to some of our motives. We are pleased that our appeal to our countrymen abroad to raise their voice of protest against the drastic limitation of their rights and the opportunity to exercise their fundamental constitutional right to vote has been heard and they have also joined the campaign against this shameful legislation. And today you finally have the opportunity to adjust yourself. But we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms express our firm dissatisfaction with the fact that the President, unfortunately, with the same motives, missed the golden opportunity to return and declare unconstitutional not only the texts of art. 14 and related to the limitation of the possibility of voting our compatriots abroad, and many other texts which we, during the debates on the adoption of the Law, have also categorically stated that they are in blatant contradiction with the Constitution. In particular, with the same motives, he had to return the texts related to the introduction of the so-called "seditence', which in an absolutely identical way restricts the fundamental constitutional rights of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. He also had to return the text, which transformed a fundamental constitutional right into an obligation of voting rights. Similarly, it had to return as a text contrary to a number of international legal acts relating to human rights, the text limiting the possibility of conducting election campaigning in a different language than the official one. Unfortunately, the President did not exercise this power of his own, did not return these texts, i.e. just pulled the number over. We are not satisfied with this and we expect the National Assembly to correct this omission, and at last to do our job as our constituents expect both in the country and abroad. Let all Members of the National Assembly put aside the close party interests this time. I expect those political forces who claim to belong to European political families who claim to share European values, principles and standards, to stop succumbing to blackmail, to pressure from extra-systemic, ultranationalist, xenophobic political forces, and they were their coalition partners. There can be no competition between human rights and populism and nationalism. These two categories cannot be placed at one level. They're incompatible. I expect specifically from those who, at least in words, claim to be European parties, this time to show, to prove that they are, and to restore the democratic character and spirit of both the Election Code and the electoral process as a whole. We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms keep our position firmly against this version of amendments to the Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u163	Any lines to Mr. Kazak? Mr. Zablyanov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u164	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mr Kazak! In this debate, the border between democracy, its main forms of existence, the rights of citizens and the borders of the state is blurred. That is, we were unable to find the measure, including in the respective Election Code, of these three main components which define the framework of the functioning of Bulgarian democracy. Democracy is not transnational and interparliamentary. Democracy has a national character. Democracy is feasible within the borders of the national state. It is a political regime of functioning of the state. It is not a democracy in general. He doesn't have rights in general! There is no possibility of exercising political rights, of implementing governance mechanisms and so forth outside the state. The state is the unsub! We cannot remove elections outside the functioning of the state and its institutions with all the consequences arising from this in terms of state security, national security, border protection, the realization of the state interest, because there is nothing to swim in the immense sea of universal democracy. Now that we know it doesn't exist, don't we? Yes, there are some universal human rights and the citizen. This is how Europe is closest to them, Europe implements them in the fullest volume, Europe has created norms, institutions and documents that guarantee the fullest of citizens' rights. Outside of Europe, this is not how it works. I'm sorry, that's a fact. But when it comes to the functioning of democracy, [[the President signals that time has run out]] This is also about the functioning of the state. It cannot be removed and given a concession to other countries to exercise democracy on their behalf within the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u165	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u166	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I don't think you're quite right. Democracy is a universal category. Yes, democracy is generally designed to characterize the profile of a state type of device. In principle, democracy is invented as a kind, a way of making the state and its rule, in which the people have the word in one form or another, and not someone to usurp their will, to usurp the power and to exercise it, despite the will of the people. It is precisely because it is a universal category that democracy is shared and its principles are subject to all the basic international legal documents specifically related to human rights protection. Since it is through the protection of those, as you rightly pointed out, universal human rights, which are to the highest extent regulated and regulated on the European continent, within the Council of Europe and even more cultivated within the European Union, these democratic principles and standards, all the Member States of these organisations have voluntarily agreed to comply with them in their internal legislation. And no country has the right to accept them after having put them even in its Constitution, as the Republic of Bulgaria has done, to suddenly limit itself and deny them. The Bulgarian Constitution has indicated that all Bulgarian citizens, because they are Bulgarian citizens, have all the rights and obligations under this Constitution, regardless of whether they live in the country or abroad. This is the sufficient argument for the state, first of all, to ensure that these rights are respected and to create the necessary opportunities for this both in the country and abroad. The Acting Election Code of Maximum Form has tried to regulate and arrange both the legal norms and the practical possibilities for the exercise of those rights. Now these changes that we are discussing have gone in the extremely opposite direction of demoralization, of a drastic limitation of these rights and of the practical possibilities for their implementation. That's why the president vetoed it, which is why we're hoping this time. [[the President signals that time has run out]] Parliament should be corrected and restored the democratic spirit of the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u167	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. The word for speech is Mr. Georgi Kadiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the whole stage of the adoption of the Election Code was a farce. This farce began with a meeting of the Legal Commission, where three-four-five MPs voted with 15-16 votes. There was a colleague from GERB who voted with six votes. You look at people below the qualifying minimum of committee, below the quorum, and at the end you count the score: 17 to 3! The farce continued and arrived here in plenary until the President of the Legal Committee handed us an absolutely false report from a meeting of the Legal Committee which did not take place. A true magician, Mr. Kirilov! As a result of all these movements, the result, of course, is under any criticism. I will remind you very briefly of several of the major errors of this Election Code. First of all, this is the mandatory vote. Absolutely anticonstitutional! I still don't understand why the president didn't return that text. [[Noise and lines.]] Second place................................................................................. 14, which we are currently discussing. Thirdly, the fact that we did not separate an electoral area from a foreign district. In fourth place, the fact that we increased the preferences for local elections and, and, and... I, honourable Members, will support the president's veto. I do not understand part of the colleagues who are about the changes of these members, but at the same time they will not support them.... who will leave the room, who will abstain, yesterday there were such votes of the Legal Committee. In my opinion, the right and normal position, since we do not like the text, and it is really not good because there is absolutely no logic to push 50 000 Bulgarians into London in several sections in the Bulgarian Embassy, where in 2013 one of the sections said that 2045 people voted! And if we want people lining up for six hours in a row, we're crazy! So we don't belong here in Parliament. And if we want the Bulgarian Turks in Turkey to completely break away from the Bulgarian environment, then we have no interest in our national identity. We have no interest in banning these people from voting, on the contrary. We have as much interest in Bulgarians abroad as possible - Bulgarians, Bulgarian Turks, all with some Bulgarian self-awareness to vote in elections and the way is not by limiting them. And 2014 elections have made it very clear that the increase in the number of sections leads to a 67% increase in the number of voters. And melting the weight of the votes in Turkey, if that is your goal, is not by banning the vote in Turkey, but by increasing the possibility of voting in Western Europe. Then their weight will be much smaller. And that is why the President's veto should be supported, to go to a change of these texts and then to make a proposal for a change to the Election Code, which you have planned, where the other texts are now to be repealed, and especially the text for mandatory voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u169	Any lines to Mr. Kadyev? Mr. Zablyanov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u170	Madam President, I take the opportunity to request an extension of the time of the BSP parliamentary group left Bulgaria and to put the following question to Mr. Kadiev: Mr. Kadiev, who waited in line for how long to vote cannot be an argument and is not proof of withdrawal of rights. This is a matter of organisation of the electoral process. If we don't distinguish these things, there's nothing to do in this room! The second question I want to ask is about the organisation of the sections. Well, how come someone hasn't noticed that in the neighborhood of Hope in Sliven, where tens of thousands of people live, there isn't a single section? I'm asking you a specific question. And the people in the neighborhood of Hope, our fellow citizens, walk by car or otherwise to polling stations in schools that are outside the neighborhood. And what's that? In a neighborhood in Kyustendil that I can't remember what his name was, where he ran a mayor who organised a referendum, you remember, before the local elections and who was admired then by the majority, because he then announced that he was with GERB because GERB is currently ruling the state, otherwise the next term will be with another, so this mayor also pulled the sections out of that neighborhood? Not to mention what the neighborhood is like. Do fewer Bulgarian citizens live there? Why aren't there sections in these neighborhoods? Why did you see only the sections abroad and their distribution and the technology of organization of choice and how long were the citizens waiting? In the previous term of the National Assembly, I was elected by a constituency in Sliven. Do you know how they vote from the neighborhood of Hope in Sliven? And how is that really difficult for them? And not to explain the way this is organized. I mean, it's about the President's full hypocrisy. Total hypocrisy on the part of the President! These are not motives, as I pointed out in my previous speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u171	Second line, Mrs. Tasheva. Third line, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u172	My reply aims to draw the attention of the people's representation to an undeservedly neglected fact related to the last hot supporter and campaigner for the Turkish national interest in Bulgaria. [[Heckling]] Kadiev, it is known that you have three companies - Kadiev global -..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A couple of years ago, Energy Spent more electricity from Bulgaria than Kozloduy nuclear power plant, which also has a license to trade electricity. My question is: since you have recently been possessed by an overwhelming love for everything Turkish, can you declare from this tribune that the companies you transferred to your wife do not have a contract to export electricity to Turkey? Thank you. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u173	Third line, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u174	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kadiev, I will not come to the point of commenting on your reasoning, because they are, first of all, not logical; secondly, they do not respond to the truth, and in general they are conditioned by your rather difficult political position to create an audience and electorate where you find them. After you have come to the point of taking the whole family to a gay parade, relying on support for the multicolored ones, there is nothing more to comment on about your political statements, but I would like to challenge another statement of yours, because this kind of attitude towards our colleague is already becoming a practical attitude towards Danail Kirilov, colleague Danail Kirilov. You keep blaming him, blaming him for illegal false documents, all sorts of other nonsense that doesn't answer the truth. We are talking about a report that is signed by living people, and that is by a majority of those present. The representative, for example, was invited to another party, but was not present. Stop your speculation! Aren't you embarrassed? No, not to you, but to your fellow Members on the left, are you not embarrassed to pounce and slander, and to accuse a person who has a higher degree of professionalism, competence and morality, which most of those present in this Chamber do not have! [[Heckling]] Perhaps you would remind me.. Was there one case for this year and a half, that this person should make at least one, half political statement? No! There are very few people in this room. That's Mr. Peter Kanev, Mr. Mihov and maybe someone else to miss, but there aren't many, and I'm not among them either. So, a little more careful with the decent people! [[After the reply, the people representative Valeri Simeonov greeted Daniel Kirilov, shaking hands with him. Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u175	Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u176	I don't even know whether to respond to these lines to me, as some of them are quite personal and have nothing to do with the Bill. If Mrs. Tasheva is so keen to know where she's taking my wife's electricity, call her and ask her. [[Noise and lines.]] The fact that someone exports more than the nuclear power plant is not news just because the nuclear power plant is exporting zero and if you export one gram, one kilowatt, one megawatt and you will export more than the nuclear power plant Kozloduy. As for Mr. Simeonov, Mr. Simeonov, I have not told a single slander, not a single lie. I said two facts. The first fact of the Legal Commission had people, less than the necessary quorum of seven people, and they voted 17-20 votes. [[Noise and lines.]] Here's Mr. Kirilov to stand up and say if it's true. Colleague Svilen Ivanov, who called, voted six votes. Is that right? [[Relations and calls from the hall.]] It doesn't matter how long I've been! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u177	Please don't enter unauthorized...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u178	Even one member, if accepted in this way, he is already illegitimately accepted. And the entire decision of the Legal Committee was absolute fraud, farce and focus. And that's the second, third and fourth time I've said it. The next focus was the Legal Committee report here in the Chamber. Colleagues, have you received a report on which to write the Legal Affairs Committee? Have you received a report on which to write the acceptance of the proposal?........................................ is not accepting the proposal......................................................... Did you hear Mr. Kirilov, who said there was no meeting of the Legal Commission? Then what slander are you talking about?! Where's the slander? Did we get a report that doesn't exist from a meeting that doesn't exist? Is it a document fraud? It's a document fraud! What do you want more than that?! Of course it's a farce! Of course, that's why we came to such an election code, an absolute mockery of everything! [[Strong noise in GERB.]] Both the people abroad and the people in Bulgaria! That's what you created! Two weeks of wasted time, and tomorrow we'll begin with new amendments to the Election Code. Then what did we do for two weeks when tomorrow we start over again?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u179	The word for speech is Mr. Luchezar Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group, we declare the following. The Parliamentary Group objected and objected to the overall approach to changing the Election Code. We have repeatedly stated in our positions that we do not support and contest the approach in which, first at a Commission meeting, and later in this House, more than 200 paragraphs were considered and adopted in just three days. It was natural for us to get to this point because the assumption of any mistake or bad decision led to their multiplication. This was inevitable also because of another fact. It is not normal in three years for Bulgaria to adopt entirely two new electoral codes in 2011 and 2014. I'll give you an example. In Germany's election law, adopted in 1953, only 28 amendments were made in 63 years. With the current changes and our active position, we have managed to preserve positive things - the Committees in charge in their previous form, the term of election campaign, the remaining of local coalitions. With one thing, however, we agree that the contested text creates some inequality between Bulgarian citizens abroad, but this is natural because the Bulgarian Law cannot act in foreign countries where the vote will be taken. The ABB Parliamentary Group consistently asserts that the rights of Bulgarians abroad should not be harmed. Moreover, I rely on one more fact that with the introduction of the electronic vote in 2018, all that we are having this dispute about will not stand as a problem. On the other hand, the veto act is considered too selective. He puts serious questions in practice, but he also ignores serious questions. Why are we only discussing art. 14 and polling stations abroad? Why are we not discussing that the Election Code has not been improved in order to ensure an honest and transparent electoral process? Why are we not discussing the refusal to ease the appeal on electoral matters in order to make access to justice more effective? In this regard, we have made many proposals for election papers, for appeal, for local defendants, but unfortunately they have not been accepted. The current changes to the Executive Code have brought in a lot of positive things. For example, some progress has been made in introducing machine voting. But there are also many things that require an improvement in the overall electoral process so as to ensure an honest vote and account for the results. For us, it is clear from the ABB Parliamentary Group that after the next elections will be held, proposals to amend the Election Code will be rained down again. At the ABB, we strongly oppose this phenomenon and continue to argue that no more amendments should be made with hasty decisions which the National Assembly will then have to reconsider, cancel or modify. Leaded by all of this, the ABB Parliamentary Group is proposing and will submit a formal proposal for a decision to immediately establish an expert group to the Election Code of the National Assembly, and by specialists of electoral legislation........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Finally, our Parliamentary Group says that we are for the broadest participation of our compatriots abroad in the electoral process and that their rights should not be restricted, but we have also repeatedly stated that we do not support playing on their backs in view of close party political objectives in one direction or another. Therefore, the ABB Parliamentary Group will not take part in the vote. [[Reply of the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u181	- What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Nikiforov, I was provoked to give you a reply about a few moments in your speech. The first point is the serious behaviour in terms of the fact that over 200 paragraphs have been examined in three sessions of the Legal Committee. In exactly three parliamentary meetings, the Election Code was adopted and voted at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u183	Five meetings two previous week and three next.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u184	All right, make it five. I remember three, but more serious, because there were interruptions. This does not mean that Parliament's work is not serious. The second thing I can't agree with is a rash decision. On numerous occasions, including in your parliamentary group, colleagues have submitted unconstitutional texts and I have then gone and congratulated them for their decency to withdraw these texts by legislative initiative. And you can't deny it! Here, however, first there was an extremely correct attitude of the Legal Commission. If I had to make a recommendation from colleague Daniel Kirilov, I would tell him next time not to collect six or eight or twelve signatures for submitting a report. The practice in the National Assembly is to submit the report with the President's signature, but because of his excessive correctness he is now accused of even violating this practice in order to be all correct, to be able to get acquainted with these texts and not to, as you have said, hastily and wrongly made decisions. See, that's why I can't agree with you. Otherwise, it's your position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u185	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Nikiforov. You won't use it. The word for speech is Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! It is obvious that the motives in the president's veto are political, not legal, and I will therefore comment on them as such. However, I will start my speech with a text from the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria: Art. 4. (1) The Republic of Bulgaria is the rule of law. It is governed by the Constitution and the laws of the country. In this Law, there is nothing right in your creation. It is an emancipation of the agreements and transactions, of the behind-the-scenes and the lack of any transparency. It is the embodiment of your unprincipled coalition. The president's veto is in fact the jointion of the second part for the consecutive agreements and negotiations, because if Mr. President claims to protect the rights of Bulgarian citizens, he should have vetoed and described in his motives other anti-constitutional texts the mandatory vote, for example. He didn't do that. He did not motivate and veto the entire Law, but only on art. 14 not because it is problematic for Bulgarian citizens, but because it is problematic for your agreements and the distribution of power. In accordance with art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution... the President can give the law back to the National Assembly for a new discussion that cannot be denied. Today, we are voting here for the Law, the Law, the Law, the Law, and your creation, and we are not voting for the veto, which, in this case, is obviously only a constitutional instrument to preserve your populism-eaten coalition. We are consistent and firm in our position! We criticized this creation of yours, made reasonable proposals that you did not listen to. Our opinion remains unchanged. This Law, in its entirety, is unfit, inadequate, creating conditions for the opaque election process, for manipulation of the election result. It is anti-democratic, anti-constitutional and has no place in the rule of law as we are under the Constitution. The responsibility for another mess in which you have dragged the entire state and the National Assembly is solely your responsibility, as well as the personal responsibility of the Prime Minister, who has repeatedly come to the National Assembly to instruct you. Out of all these negotiations, shuttles and asking here's what's come up with an ugly act, a Frankenstein to use for official victories. It is obvious that you cannot deal responsibly with the management of the state and with law-making. The only way to bear political responsibility for this case is to resign. To conclude, BSP and the BSP parliamentary group left Bulgaria has always defended the principles of the rule of law, constitutional foundations and democratic values of our state, the social commitment of the state, which is possible only in the rule of law. In view of the above, we will never allow ourselves to participate in your agreements, in defence of yours, and not of public interests, the legal order that you brutally and insolently trampled and continue to do so! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u187	Any lines to Mr. Popov? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u188	Madam President, honourable Members, my line will be very brief. Mr. Popov, how will you vote? Yesterday in the Legal Committee, you supported the veto and made certain commitments. I ask you very clearly and briefly: how will you vote now in this House? Will you support the veto and the problematic paragraphs to be reviewed in the Commission and adjusted in such a way that the rights of Bulgarian citizens are not harmed, or, if you will excuse me for the expression, will you fall out of the hall on turrets and will not vote at all? Answer me briefly and clearly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u189	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u190	Dear Mr. Slavov, you haven't listened to me carefully. If you had, you would have known what our parliamentary group would have done. I firmly stated and repeated for you personally: we will not participate in any way in these agreements of yours that are not constitutionally tailored, which are contrary! We can't be part of this coalition of yours, this piece of yours! We will not take part in this vote and we do not wish to be in any way related to this package of your own by a president and a ruling coalition, which will see how much longer it lasts as a coalition! [[Replying and shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u191	The word for speech is Mr. Jayhan Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u192	Mrs. Chairman, gentlemen of the House! Less than a month ago, we witnessed violent debates in connection with controversial texts related to the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. Then Bulgarian citizens and stakeholders actively expressed their civil position against the amendments voted. The strong voice that we then cast from the parliamentary tribune, precisely from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, was heard by the President and Bulgarian citizens, and thus led to the veto being imposed by the Bulgarian Head of State. Thus, all these Bulgarian citizens are trying through the veto of the President to protect the damaged constitutional rights of our brothers, sisters and friends who live outside the Republic of Bulgaria, because this creates unequal conditions for the exercise of their active selective right. Honourable Members, the state's efforts must not be aimed at limiting rights, but rather at creating conditions for the exercise of active selective law. I appeal to form positions, not to make decisions based on wrong or incomplete data, and to realise the huge negative consequences that these changes would have. The state must have an adequate policy towards Bulgarian communities abroad and thus show our open partnership doors with these Bulgarian citizens. It is a myth, honourable Members, that, you see, in the Republic of Turkey, because the main problem is this, there are sections in which the most votes have been cast. I have done my hard work and I am showing you official statistics that indicate which sections, outside the Republic of Bulgaria, have been cast the most votes: in Madrid, London, Vienna, Munich, Athens and so on. Outside Bulgaria, again according to official data, more than 2 million Bulgarian citizens live. With the adoption of texts that are already a fact, this, I would say, is a discriminatory text. The undisclosed goal, honourable Members, is to reduce the number of votes from the Republic of Turkey, notice, forced out of the Republic of Bulgaria. They have the same electoral rights as all Bulgarian citizens, even I would add, with a huge apology to them, it is insulting to those over 300,000 Bulgarian voters. The state cannot abdicate from its duties and cannot the National Assembly amend a decision of the Grand National Assembly. This is a deliberate and deliberate violation of the Constitution under the act of political formation, unfortunately, along with the ruling majority. Parliament should not be the victim of political formations and parties with vague political history. When the President vetoed and referred to the Constitution, if he was a democrat, he had to veto other texts of the Election Code, for example, I give the mandatory vote The Constitution says exactly what is right and what is mandatory. I don't see my colleague Stoilov in the room. He was involved in writing this Constitution, he can confirm that. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, honourable Members, from the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, in para. 1 is written: "Bulgarian citizen is anyone of whom at least one parent is a Bulgarian citizen or who was born on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 of the Constitution is also written that the fundamental rights of citizens are inalienable. In such a case, inalienable civil rights cannot be revoked by a simple National Assembly. We can't impose a right as an obligation. I will finish my speech with a winged phrase. Gentlemen, do not object to the situation. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u193	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. - What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The President correctly vetoed texts that are frankly unconstitutional. However, the responsibility for their adoption is not only for the authors of these proposals, but for the system parties who, here in this Chamber, supported them by entering into an absolutely unacceptable agreement. I refer, first of all, to Party GERB, which, in the name of power, understood as stability, sacrificed democratic principles. However, the prime minister said that if he had to choose between the rights of citizens and the principles of democracy and power, he would choose the principles. Today it will become clear on how this party will vote on the veto imposed by the Head of State. My fellow Members, it is absolutely unacceptable the situation where the veto is rejected and only then will we be committed to correcting the discriminatory texts. The rejection of the veto means rejecting the Head of State's motives, and they are undoubtedly democratic. The same responsibility lies with colleagues from the Reformation Block. However, nearly a month of debate on the Election Code has shown that there are two main arguments for the imposition of these discriminatory texts. Both arguments concern the vote in the Republic of Turkey. And today, in this Chamber, there were allegations that we had observed systemic violations in the Republic of Turkey and referred to the 2009 Constitutional Court Decision on the cassation of 18 200 votes. Only, whose violations were committed in 2009? The violations are not citizens' or any other state's. The basis for the cassation of 18 200 votes is incomplete in shaping the sectional protocols. The responsibility for shaping the sector protocols is neither for the citizens nor for any other country, but for the Bulgarian state, which appoints the electoral administration. And precisely because for the mistakes of the electoral administration, for the mistakes of the state can not be punished at all Bulgarian citizens, the court in Strasbourg condemned Bulgaria for the decision of the Constitutional Court to cash out these 18 200 votes. I ask: why are you all here in this Chamber holding back this fact, why are you holding back all parties without exception? The Constitutional Court's ruling is not an argument. This decision is no longer invalid, it has been annulled by the judgment of the Strasbourg court. And the second argument is even more irrational. The second argument is that in the sections in Turkey it was not possible to vote 1600 Bulgarian citizens. In London, London is the record player, colleagues "2080 votes in one section, 80 percent in favour of GERB. I ask: does anyone claim that in London it is possible to vote 2080, but in Luleburgas this is not possible and for this reason the elections there should be castrated, or hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens should be deprived of voting rights? Madam President, I'm finishing, given the limited time. The only thing that can and must be done with regard to the vote abroad, including in the Republic of Turkey, is in the direction of decisive action to increase the capacity of the electoral administration, if it is necessary to increase the presence in these sections, in order to calm the extremely nationalist passions. But this issue cannot be resolved at the expense of the Constitution and at the expense of fundamental rights. You are faced with a severe test by supporting the veto, that is, against the third vote of the Election Code to respect the veto of state hunger and correct your historical error. Anything else will make you accomplices to the political crime of the century called the Chosen Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u195	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Mestan, you have made an accusation from this tribune that all political forces in the Forty-third National Assembly have withheld the fact that the Constitutional Court's decision concerns omissions of the electoral administration and that Bulgaria has been convicted by the Strasbourg court because of this decision. Dear Mr. Mestan, you were absent when discussing this Election Code for most of the time. If you had not been absent, you would have witnessed that, from this tribune, I myself pointed out precisely this decision by the Strasbourg court, which proved in a firm way that the Constitutional Court's decision, with which the elections were castrated and 18 thousand were castrated. the vote in the Republic of Turkey, Bulgaria was condemned because this decision was absolutely untenable, but you then went around the country and established the structures of your new political project. So don't put the Movement for Rights and Freedoms in a row of parties for which violation of fundamental human rights is normal, something banal. It is precisely because of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms that Bulgaria was condemned in Strasbourg and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms from this tribune and its votes that it will continue to defend the rights and freedoms of our compatriots both in Bulgaria and in the Republic of Turkey and wherever they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u197	Second line? A hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u198	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Kazak! I was referring to today's debates because today the main thesis of the advocates of discriminatory texts was in the direction of systemic violations in the Republic of Turkey. Of course, I heard you speak in both the first and the second reading of the Election Code, and I only referred to today's debates. I hope that's clear. I suggest that we do not engage in party construction or presence or absence, because this topic is not very appropriate and is not much of an argument in your mouth, you know for what reasons, because we have a serious common problem. We have to stop a fascist outburst that is at stake in the Election Code. And that question really needs to be resolved. By the way, the vote will show who-who is in Bulgarian politics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u199	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. The word to speak is Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u200	When we think about the veto of this president, we must not forget that he is in an election campaign and relies on the favor of certain social and ethno-religious categories of voters. Only this is enough to question the objectivity of his arguments. By the way, he does not hide them, and if you read his arguments carefully, you will see that there is also such an argument that there should be a balance between citizens' rights and national security. That in which normal country are they in contradiction, so that we balance them and balance them? In other words, President Plevneliev knew very well that it was about a certain category of Bulgarian citizens who are in Turkey and realized that their dress in excessive rights and privileges is a threat to national security and, you see, decided to balance them both to be satisfied, and the others. The veto is badly argued. When we talk about the restrictions imposed in art. 14, on which he vetoed, we mean the following statistics. The fourth century is already the age of Bulgarian democracy and we have rich statistics from which to draw valid conclusions. Two thousand and nine years of 154 thousand. 534 votes cast all over the world outside Bulgaria, 93 thousand. 926 people, i.e. 61,18% were submitted to Turkey. These are the votes for the DPS. In 2013 the participation of Bulgarians abroad fell sharply, although there is already a new Election Code, which is ultraliberal. One hundred and ten thousand six hundred thirty-two valid votes have been cast throughout the world outside Bulgaria. And they say here someone said that more than 2 million citizens lived outside Bulgaria! That's what Mr. Ibryamov said, like, who knows why, said it was social statistics. No, you don't raise half a million! The only survey is the 2011 census, which says that in 25 years Bulgaria has been abandoned by one and a half million citizens. What part of them are no longer citizens of Bulgaria, but have taken foreign citizenship, we do not know. But let us assume that all remaining Bulgarian citizens. Out of a million and a half voted 110,000. 600 people. In 2014, the picture was not very different. 138,000. 121 valid votes outside Bulgaria, 59 thousand voted for DPS. 938 people, that's 43.39%. In other words, when we talk about whether we should respect the right of Bulgarians outside Bulgaria to vote, we should always be aware that we are talking about the citizens of Turkey. They are always the majority, and, as you can see, according to the CEC, up to 61% of all votes. Why can't we look at their so-called rights in the context of the universal Euro-Atlantic rights with which you lie down and become, gentlemen on the right? Because Turkey is not just any country. It's not your United States, it's not Washington, D.C., it's not Dubai, it's Turkey! Turkey is a threat with its very existence and with its Ottoman politics, either neo-Osmanian, or pan-Islamic, or pan-Turkish, it is all about the same thing. It is a threat to Bulgaria and 25 years of experience with this country proved this. Here, literally minutes ago, a person spoke, who, from the moment she ceased to be the leader of a parliamentary group, fled to the Turkish Embassy and hid there! You have Turkish ambassadors such as the current Sulejman Gokce or as the former Burguoglu who are present not only attend party rallies of a particular party, they create a comfortable party for Ankara, pressure the Bulgarian government to give these parties certain privileges and conditions for recruiting a membership table. They serve with racketeering, threaten municipal councils on the ground for accepting, for example, a declaration of recognition of Armenian genocide. This is Turkey's policy in Bulgaria. How many are there, how many will vote there? Someone said 300,000 here. How 300,000, gentlemen?! During the revival process around 280. 300,000 went away, such is the official statistics and again according to the official statistics there was a reverse wave..140 thousand returned after three months. Some of them in front of the cameras of the Bulgarian television told about their horrific experiences in the Turkish police. But that doesn't stop them from pretending. I want, when we talk about Turkey as an existential threat to Bulgaria, to consider what the Turks imagine as a Bulgarian population on their territory and now I will show you facts. On 27 December 2015, Turkish then Prime Minister Ahmed Davutoglu announced support for the demands of someone who is not known in Bulgaria, a Federation of Pomashki companies in the Republic of Turkey.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u201	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u202	On her papers... On the subject? That's on the subject, Mr. Kazak! [[Applause from PF.]] That's the theme! This federation claims that it represented the interests of.. beware, 2.5 million pomats of expatriates established in Turkey. Why is he meeting Davutoglu? Because he wants money to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u203	Let's focus on the Election Code, Mrs. Tasheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u204	He's gonna fix it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u205	He wants money to confirm the thesis that there is a pomach language, culture and history, other than Bulgarian. How did the Turkish Prime Minister react? He promised to finance something called the Bulgarian Cultural School - Bulgaria, especially for pomachers, in which 90 people from Bulgaria were trained in 2015 and 50 will be trained this year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u206	Don't talk about it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u207	I asked the Prime Minister to answer if there was a pomach ethnicity in Bulgaria, but Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva did not allow my question. That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. The extremely liberal Election Code created the conditions for this aggressive anti-Bulgarian policy to participate, to manipulate, to transform Bulgarian political life through the holes and loopholes in the Election Code. What are we trying to do right now? Currently, the Bulgarian Parliament is trying through soft, sparing methods through the Election Code to somehow defend itself against this threat. Some people have seen this very, very scary thing! It violated Euro-Atlantic rights. Yes, with your thesis, you have proved what we in Ataka have been talking about for 11 years: under the so-called Euro-Atlantic values and the rights of the European Union lies Islamization, Turkisation and neo-Osmanist politics! As for the court you're quoting, I'll remind you, Mr. Kazak, the following. You're very fond of talking about this court. It is not an institution of the European Union. He has just as much authority as his previous Eurovision. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. - What's the line? Anyone? Personal explanation please, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I really expected you to interrupt the conversationalist, as she was totally deviant from the subject and was talking some nonsense that had nothing to do with the debate that is being held here. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u210	I, too, would ask you to do no wrongs and such definitions. You're the equivalent of good parliamentary behavior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u211	Dear Mrs. Tasheva, I think it is high time that you disposed of these deposits in your mind that you acquired during your youth and that have nothing to do with today's reality. The Republic of Turkey is a NATO member country, a candidate country of the European Union, a good neighbour of Bulgaria that has never posed a threat to national security. Moreover, they pose a threat to national security the hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens who live permanently in the territory of the Republic of Turkey and are loyal Bulgarian citizens, pay their taxes, come here regularly, spend money here, contribute to the development of the local economy and, above all, feed in their hearts and souls love for the country. They will never, ever allow a bad word to be spoken in relation to Bulgaria. This country, the Republic of Turkey, took them in when they were expelled from the communist regime. This country has never posed any threat to Bulgaria. However, a threat to national security represents your and similar statements, which only sow hatred, enmity and divide the Bulgarian people. This poses a threat to national security. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u212	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. Here you go. There's a word for procedure, Mr. Ivanov. [[National Representative Magdalena Tasheva wants the floor.]] That was a personal explanation, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u213	I want procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u214	I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose a procedure to extend the time until the veto is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u216	I don't understand until the point we're discussing is over?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u217	Yeah, to the point we're discussing the veto.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u218	Until the debate and vote on the veto.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u219	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote what the MP Stanislav Ivanov has just proposed to extend the working time to the vote and accept the point that we are discussing at the moment. They voted 134 MPs: 111, against 16, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Tasheva, in the manner of conduct. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u220	Mr. Chairman, I don't understand is it worth so much effort to interrupt the political propaganda of a tyrannical regime that burned 200 women and children in the city of Jizhur in February? I understand that the spiritual homeland of some MPs here is not in Bulgaria. They are purely mechanistic about their birth on our territory, and their spiritual education is southeast. But there, in the southeast, runs a tyrannical regime, an Asian satrap that doesn't even respect the decisions of its own Constitutional Court. And you see: she was a good neighbor after funding pomach schools and said that Bulgaria had moved 2 million to Turkey. Five hundred thousand. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm If that's not a threat, what's a threat?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u221	You have a procedure in the manner of holding. Please be specific.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u222	That's what I'm saying, that's what I'm saying. He had to go out and talk on the president's veto. I'm out to say the president's veto shouldn't go through.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. Indeed, let it be in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u224	He could have exposed counterarguments, not advertised Erdogan. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u225	Thank you. Your speeches have always been distinguished by particular color and attention. I listened carefully to your note in the manner of keeping, but I really couldn't influence any tyrannical regime, unfortunately, so I take only what you said. The next speaker is the People's Representative of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms Mr. Ramadan Atalay. I don't see him in the gym. I give the floor to the MP from the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u226	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Undoubtedly, the president's veto is loaded with many political expectations. I would say that, to some extent, there are expectations of this political sign, whether the president's veto will be supported or rejected. Obviously this also gives a chance for many political speeches, the repositioned one. There's a presidential election coming up. Everything is seen under a magnifying glass, unfortunately, the importance of a separate vote is also exaggerated. In fact, veto is technology. In this sense, let me say from the very beginning that in the Reformation bloc we will vote on conscience and everyone will decide what is the most sensible solution, because the most important thing is to have a better Election Code! Obviously the veto of the President was provoked and for the reason we look at whether certain details could be refined in order to guarantee the constitutional rights of Bulgarians in Bulgaria and Bulgarians abroad for choice, for free choice. Obviously, however, there are problems that are quite worrying colleagues, and we are also worried about how to vote in certain countries, problems of manipulated choice, probably, evidence that somewhere is voted in 29 seconds, which is obviously five or six times below normal time, to exercise your right to vote. There's no way that doesn't bother us. I mean, to some extent everything that's happening is somewhat overexposed. We voted that there will be electronic remote voting in Bulgaria very soon. This means that with God's help and with our efforts in 2019 there will already be a remote electronic vote, which will give all Bulgarians abroad a chance to exercise their right to vote without any problems, without travel and queues. In these relapses somehow all of this, the most important thing, is sinking. In fact, this is the most important thing for me and for this reason the Election Code has been changed because we are introducing electronic remote voting, which will guarantee the possibility of all Bulgarians in Bulgaria and abroad in an absolutely seamless way to exercise their right to vote. I'm going to continue with the fact that what really matters is that whatever happens and the veto is accepted, and that the veto is rejected, what's next? From then on, there are two approaches. If it is accepted to see only the members by which the veto has been vetoed, which is a slightly more stressful action, a more stressful opportunity for a positive change of the Election Code. If the veto is rejected, this allows for the introduction of a new Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, which gives the opportunity to correct other errors, and other details, to refine other techniques and methodologies with regard to the Election Code. I mean, for me, the most important thing is what the result will be, and that's why I'm looking at the result. I believe that Bulgarian citizens also look at the outcome that is coming and do not look at a simple vote. From a simple vote, the big conclusions cannot be drawn about whether this Election Code will be better and how much better it will be. So it's a question of approach. I am convinced that the ruling majority will make it so that the Election Code will give all Bulgarians in Bulgaria and abroad a chance to exercise their right to vote that the Election Code will be made better and that the Election Code will guarantee honesty and objectivity of the implementation of the elections in Bulgaria one of the most important things, one of the fundamental things for a democracy. I am stopping here and I really call on you to judge wisely and not allow a vote to be loaded with such high expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u227	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. - What's the line? Mr. Lutvi Mestan, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u228	Is there any time?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u229	There is, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Zelenogorski, this statement is difficult to read. However, in me you left the impression that these were many words in an attempt to build a front behind which to hide an agreement the veto of the Head of State would be rejected. We will very carefully follow your own vote whether these doubts of ours are justified or not. If I have been wrong in reading your very complicated statement, please excuse me, but I expect your vote to be against the veto, because ultimately power will be sweeter than principles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u231	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Second line? I won't. For the doppelganger, the people's representative Nayden Zelenogorski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mestan, your words about me talking complicated are a compliment to me, because the person who speaks most complicated in this room and I find it difficult to find out, it's probably you, or at least you're in the top three. But to calm down, I will vote for the rejection of the veto because I believe that a wider opportunity for changes to the Election Code should be given. However, as far as the most dramatic themes that have been put in this House are concerned, you know very well that I have always supported democracy and objectivity. For example: we are against mandatory voting; for example: we are looking for balanced solutions for all Bulgarians abroad. So you don't have to go into conflict with me or people who think like me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u233	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Are there any other MPs who would like to speak on the controversial topic today? Last to make a statement on the list that is in front of me is the People's Representative Krasimir Karakachanov. Mr. Karakachanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the subject of what is called a veto is really fundamental. It shows whether in the Bulgarian Parliament the political formations act by virtue of whether they are in power or in opposition, or they act and will vote by virtue of whether they assess the threats to the Bulgarian national security and put the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria first. Regarding the president's very veto, one of the colleagues said very correctly that this is hypocrisy. Why is it hypocrisy? First of all, because there were many controversial texts in this Law. About three months are being debated on this Law a variety of topics and ideas, some reasonable things were not accepted, but Mr. President concentrated not on the topic of how many residents of a village to choose a mayor, on which there are major disputes in society, he concentrated on only one topic which concerns voting abroad. Why hypocrisy? Because there was a task force. In this working group as a representative of the Presidency was present one of his secretaries. The texts he is now returning were agreed and adopted by the working group in the presence of his secretary by the Presidency. Even one of the colleagues asked a question: Is the text okay, is there any problems? We put this text to the vote 24 hours later. Then there was a group claiming to represent these two million Bulgarians abroad. Believe me, go online, check out these people represent no one but themselves. They are part of a network that in the last few years tries to solve Bulgaria's problems with yelling on the streets, with blowjobs or with attacks on the Internet. There's nothing more that these people represent. In these 10 days before Easter to this day, I have been contacted personally by at least 20 Bulgarians from abroad, people who live in the United States, in Germany, in Greece, who say: These people do not represent us. Well, since I'm an ordinary MP, I can establish by going online that these people represent no one, the Head of State, who has the services available, should know that these people really represent no one. However, he chose to listen to a screaming group, as it was part of a similar scheme, not to make a real debate. I have said this in front of the media, I will say it from the National Assembly stands: I, as co-chair of the Patriotic Front, have asked for a meeting with the President during his secretary, to explain as importers what were the reasons, what are our concerns about what is happening in the Republic of Turkey for the last 15 years as electoral practices. But on the other hand, instead of answering for a meeting, no time on Saturday, 11:00 p.m. Saturday, 11:00! A statement was followed that a veto was to be vetoed. That is, the president, who has been a mediator for five years, who has talked to us for five years about civil society and European values, has failed to respect the most important value in my view, the dialogue between the institutions of which he is called to be a balanceholder. That is precisely why I believe that this veto should not be supported in any way. These are some of the reasons that concern the Head of State's behaviour. It can be qualified as hypocritical and as part of an election campaign and nothing more. Because of stubbornness, without listening to arguments, provided that through all media we have also exposed from the tribune of the National Assembly the arguments that concern Bulgaria's security relating to the policy of the Republic of Turkey towards Bulgaria, the President, who has the reports of these services, which we do not have, and who ten times better than we know what political practice is in the Republic of Turkey with regard to politics and Bulgaria, knows about specific figures, specific amounts, specific names of people with the United Nations and addresses, I do not want to go into details, but he knows them because I know them too, he nevertheless imposed a veto of a Law without respecting the doubts in the Bulgarian society that, through this Election Law, if the adopted texts, the national security of Bulgaria, sovereignty, if you will and the dignity of the Bulgarian people will be harmed. That is why I think only this is why it is even worth rejecting this veto. Secondly, we have nothing to lie to each other, we have said it directly in the adopted text there was a mistake, but she, believe me, was not the fault of Mr. Kirilov, whom I would like to thank for taking over the heavy cross to be spit and hokan without reason from the opposition. It was a mistake from another institution of ours that recommended in the cities where we have diplomatic representations that no other sections were opened. I am talking about the Member States of the European Union. Yeah, it's a mistake and it needs to be straightened out. And he'll be standing up after we reject the president's veto. There are other small things that can be fixed. But there's one thing we can't accept. We cannot accept returning the old situation where the vote in neighbouring Turkey will be out of control. Again! Again! It's always been out of control! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u235	The extended time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u236	I'm graduating, Madam President. I've been fooled by the fact that we have 11 minutes. Dear colleagues, given the interests of Bulgaria, its sovereignty and the threats that stand for its territorial integrity from the policy of a neighbouring country, which does not hide its imperial Neo-Osmanian ambitions, which fund all sorts of organizations and organizations that work against the unity of the Bulgarian nation................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , or for the so-called Pomach ethnicity, or for the establishment of the Muslims of the rest of the people, we must vote to reject this veto! Thank you, Madam President. Sorry for the delay in time. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-18.u237	- What's the line? I won't. Are there any other MPs who wish to take part in the debate? I won't. The debate is closed. I'm inviting all the MPs to the House. There's a vote coming up. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in cases of veto imposed by the President of the Republic pursuant to art. 101, para. 2 of the Constitution The National Assembly is re-accepting the Law and depending on whether it has more than half of the votes of all Members of the National Assembly is deemed to have been overcome. If there are no more than half of the votes, there are two different hypotheses that have been developed in our Rules. I re-vote the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. They voted 165 MPs: 135, against 27, abstention 3. [[Applause from PF.]] In the new vote, the Law has been passed, which means the president's veto has been rejected. Colleagues, in accordance with the decision that today's plenary session should continue until the debate and the vote on this point, which we have already done, I am closing the plenary session. Tomorrow's regular meeting, starting hour 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
