ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. I suggest to your attention the following Project for I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm on the work of the National Assembly for the weather from 20 to 22 January 2016 1. Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. Retire from the National Representative Dimitar Zhelev on 15 January 2016. 2. Projects for decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importer Chetin Kazak. 3. Second vote on the Public Procurement Bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Adopted on 29 October 2015 in the first vote. 4. Draft Decision on the national referendum held on 25 October 2015 at 1st for Thursday, 21 January 2016. 5. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Labour Code. The first draft was submitted by Georgi Kadiev on 19 November 2015. The second was with importers Svetlana Angelova, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Grozdan Karadzhov, Mariana Todorova, Hasan Ademov, Georgi Gokov and Stefan Kenov, 15 January 2016. 6. Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Implementation between the Member States participating in the Cooperation Programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 7. A bill for the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the European Investment Bank on loans to be granted by the European Investment Bank in support of investment projects in the countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific Basin, as well as in the overseas countries and territories and territories and of the Agreement on the administration of the pro-financing between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the EFTA States of Greece, the Republic of Greece, the EFTA States of Greece, the EFTA States of Croatia, the EFTA States of Latvia and the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the Republic of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EEA States of the EEA States of the EEA States of the EEA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EEA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EEA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the EFTA States of the Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly "on his usual day "Friday," and his usual hour "11.00." Please vote. Vote 151 MPs: 127 against 16, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Report the proposal under art. 50, para. 3, and then the shift. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] Here you go. You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I suggest a t. 5 drop out of the program with the following arguments. On Friday, a group of MPs submitted a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, which changed the criteria for representation of employers' organizations and trade unions just before the census began. It remains the feeling that this is being done to direct this process, to create more favourable or less favourable conditions for some or other employers' or trade unions and thus to direct this sector and the government, to direct representation just before the census. I mean, before the contestants get out, the rules change. And the hasty Friday is being brought in, discussing next Friday, shows that there is obviously some purpose to make this quick and not understand exactly what is happening. I suggest dropping out of this week's programme so that these organisations can be consulted on who is affected by who is benefiting and why an attempt is being made to direct this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u3	Is there a reverse opinion, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making a reverse offer. Dear Mr. Mikov, it is nice when you do such a procedure to first get acquainted with the law, in particular.................................................................................... 35, para. 1, t. 1 of the Labour Code. If you do not know, I am informing you that by Constitutional Court Decision No 7 of the Constitutional Court. 1 has been declared illegal, anti-constitutional. That is to say, at the moment all so-called employers' organisations are represented according to an unclear criterion, i.e. without any rules. First, fortunately, after almost one year of talking, there is clarification of these positions and of these parameters. Secondly, for the first time, both small and medium-sized businesses are given the opportunity to be nationally represented in terms of employers. And thirdly, it is finally possible to liberalise these relations, a greater number of people and organizations, both trade union and employers, to be able to be nationally represented. If you want us to act without rules, without legal norm, it is your right. I am making a reverse proposal to include the text because we are legally obliged to regulate these relations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u5	I put to the vote Mr. Mikov's motion to drop the item. 5 - First vote on the two bills to amend and supplement the Labour Code of our weekly programme. Vote 157 MPs: 35 against 79, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. On the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules Mr. Dragomir Stoynev, MP from the group of BSP left Bulgaria, proposes that as a point in our weekly program from January 20th to January 22nd a First reading of the Draft Law for Supplement to the Social Security Code, No 554-01-165 of 14 October 2015, submitted by Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs will be included. Last Wednesday we succeeded in time under art. 50, para. 8 on the agenda to hear the report, and that's all on this bill. Who's gonna introduce him? Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I offer to your attention a Bill of utmost importance and sensitivity in view of our demographic crisis and the undeniable fact that we are disappearing, melting as a nation, and given that the government has not yet presented concrete measures in the short and long term on dealing with our demographic crisis and, of course, a strategy on how to avoid it. Therefore, I propose a Bill whose primary purpose is to regulate the payment of child benefit from one to two years of age. Ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this bill is to bind this payment to the minimum wage. Why is that necessary? Because young families have to plan their expenses. If you reject it, it means that when GERB manages, you freeze this payment, and when BSP manages the payment, you know that we raised the payment twice because we raised the minimum wage twice. That's the truth! Our desire is to take the necessary action so that this compensation is equal to BGN 420. This is not only what BSP MPs want, it is what all young people want, all families who are dealing extremely hard with the difficult situation they are in. When a person is correct to the insurance system, namely this is about these young families, about those mothers who have worked, who have paid their contributions, which have been correct to the tax system, to now take advantage of this right of theirs, the compensation for raising children from one to two years to be equal to the minimum wage. We bind him to the minimum wage,... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u7	It's over.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u8	Wait a minute. ...as, ladies and gentlemen, it is not normal for every government subjectively to determine what this size will be. So let's tie him to the minimum wage so that young people are calm, to be predictable, even more about an increase of 80 BGN, which I do not think is a great burden on the budget. This bill was submitted in October. It is a pity that we are only looking at it now and taking advantage of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u9	You're making a motion under the procedure, and you're essentially defending your own. Two minutes and 45 seconds, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. I understand that you are also thinking about young families and children. [[Shouting from GERB: "Eee! "]] And that's why you gave me more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u11	I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 152 MPs: 68, against 20, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u12	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u13	Re-vote Mr. Stoynev. A minute and 15 seconds, I'm doing an intercept with those 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You can see the speed of billing that concerns employers, trade unions. Here the goal is to watch a bill that concerns young families. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] I don't see what the problem is or why you're running away from this question. Or you want to say to young people: "As you deal with the chaos in health care, as you deal with the chaos in education, so the state does not need you. You are the young families that raise children in an extremely difficult environment... [[GERB noise and lines]] And when GERB rules, that's not a priority?............................................... Look at those bills you brought in yesterday. Madam President, this is a bill that was tabled in October! People are protesting, they were here in parliament! After all, there must be some kind of regulation. Therefore, I turn to all the political forces: nothing prevents us from looking at this Bill. Throw it away, but let there be a clash of ideas, of proposals to find the right solution. [[(Comments from GERB:]] When young families and children are not your priority, this is exactly what a bill was submitted in October cannot yet enter the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u15	Thank you. Revoting, coworkers. Vote 160 MPs: 71, against 24, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 13 January to 19 January 2016: Draft declaration condemning the intervention of the Republic of Turkey in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer "supplier" Volen Siderov and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. Importers "Javor Haytov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Health is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. A bill to amend the Labour Code. Importers Svetlana Angelova, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Grozdan Karadzhov, Mariana Todorova, Hassan Ademov, Georgi Gokov and Stefan Kenov. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A draft decision on a change in the composition and direction of the Committee on Education and Science. Importer Chetin Kazak. Projects for solutions for change in the composition of: the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports; the Committee on Foreign Policy; the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad; the Committee on Environment and Water; the Committee on Agriculture and Food; the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications; the Committee on Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission; the Committee on Energy; the Committee on Culture and Media; and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, all with importer Mr. Chetin Kazak. Honourable Members of Parliament, in accordance with point 1 of the Rules of Procedure adopted for the election of Deputy Ombudsman, the Ombudsman Maya Manolova deposited on 14 January 2016, through the President of the National Assembly to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, a proposal for a candidate for Deputy Ombudsman. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights will hold the hearing of the candidate for Vice-Ombudsman on 21 January 2016, Thursday, at 14.30 p.m. in the Chamber of East. All materials and documents related to the procedure are published in the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, I inform you that according to art. 7, para. 2 of Decree No 3 of the Council of Ministers for the establishment of a Council on the implementation of the updated Strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, promulgated in the Official Journal. 4 of 15 January 2016, when discussing issues requiring changes to the legislation or adoption of a decision of the National Assembly, the President of the Council, and this is the Minister of Justice, invites the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs to the National Assembly and the Chairs of the Parliamentary Groups, who may designate one representative, MP or expert to participate in the Council on the implementation of the updated strategy. Last message: On 14 January 2016 the National Statistical Institute received information about the indexes of consumer prices for December 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Point one for today: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. With an I.V. letter. No 654-00-10 of 15 January 2016 was submitted an application by Dimitar Hristov Zhelev, Member of Parliament from the Twenty-Seven Election Region of Stara Zagorski, saying: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as a Member of the National Assembly elected in the mandate of the Forty-third National Assembly and wish to terminate my mandate as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. On the occasion of this application, I offer your attention, colleagues, a work project of ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED He suspended the authority of Dimitar Hristov Zhelev as a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-Seven Election Region "Stara Zagorski." Is there anyone who would like to take an attitude? I won't. I'm voting on the draft decision. Vote 154 MPs: for 151, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we're going to point two: PROJECTS FOR CHANGES TO RESPONSIBILITIES. This is required by leaving the parliamentary group and excluding the members of the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms of Members of the National Assembly. I am reporting without the accompanying letters which are on the same grounds........................................................................................... 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, straight up the draft decisions. In order to guide fellow Members on permanent committees, some Members who are members of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are exempt from those who are no longer members of a parliamentary group. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Agriculture and Food The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 in relation to art. 14, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Ventzislav Yordanov Kaimakanov as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. 2. He chose Durhan Mehmed Mustafa as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Statements? I won't. We vote. They voted 136 MPs: 125, against 3, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 in relation to art. 14, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Hussein Hasan Hafuzov and Shabanali Ahmed Durmush as members of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. 2. He elected Alexander Hristov Methodiev and Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov as members of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 123 MPs: 110, against 2, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 in relation to art. 14, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Aidoan Mutalib Ali as a member of the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Committee. 2. He elected Ruchen Mehmet Riza as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. We vote. They voted 125 MPs: 113, against 3, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Mithat Sabri Metin and Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov as members of the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We vote. Vote 131 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on changes in the composition and management of the Committee on Education and Science The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 in relation to art. 14, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. 2. He released Lutvi Ahmed Mestan as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. 3. He elected Buniamin Hussein Hassan as Vice-President of the Committee on Education and Science. 4. He elected Petar Pandushev Chobanov as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. We vote. Vote 128 MPs: 121, against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 in relation to art. 14, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. We vote. They voted 122 MPs: 118, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Foreign Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 in relation to art. 14, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Aidoan Mutalib Ali as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. 2. He elected Saliha Hakif Emin as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. We vote. They voted 127 MPs: 122, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Ruchen Mehmet Riza as a member of the Bulgarian Policy Committee abroad. We vote. Vote 127 MPs: for 123, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Energy Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 in relation to art. 14, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov as a member of the Energy Commission. 2. He elected Mithat Sabri Metin as a member of the Energy Commission. We vote. They voted 127 MPs: 121, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Saliha Hakif Emin as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. We vote. Vote 126 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on the Environment and Water The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Durhan Mehmed Mustafa as a member of the Environment and Water Commission. 2. He chose Nevin Halil Hassan as a member of the Environment and Water Committee. We vote. They voted 124 MPs: 122, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Petar Pandushev Chobanov as a member of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. We vote. Vote 126 MPs: 125, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Nevin Halil Hassan as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. We vote, fellow Members. 125 MPs voted: 124, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROMOTIONS. Will you report it, Mr. Kirilov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u16	Mr. Ivo Katsarov, Secretary General of the Public Procurement Agency, Mrs. Galya Manassieva, Director of the Directorate of Metodology, Analysis and Control of Public Procurement, and Mrs. Hristina Deneva Kircheva, Head of the Department of Metodology, Analysis and Law in the same Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u17	We are voting on the proposal made. They voted 111 MPs: 105, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u18	Report on the Public Procurement Bill, No 502-01-69, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2015, adopted at first reading on 29 October 2015. The Public Procurement Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "The first one" is the main one. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part One. ? Chapter one?? Aim and principles? The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Chapter 1 be amended as follows: ? Chapter 1? Subject matter, purpose and principles?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u19	Statements on the name of the Law, of Part One "Basics," of Chapter One? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law and of Part One by importer, and the name of Chapter One in the version of the Law, purpose and principles. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: for 107, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u20	Article 1 shall have the name "Instruction and purpose'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u21	We vote. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u22	Under art. There is a proposal from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs in art. 2, para. 1 t. 3 to drop, etc. 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u23	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw your attention to art. 2 of the proposed Bill, where the principles of this Law are laid down. The principles of every law are extremely important when the court in disputes, in disputes between business and civil entities, must judge the very delicate matter of who is right. Here the principle of proportionality is laid down in....................................................................................... When we talk about the proposed principles, we have a first principle of equality and non-discrimination - something that I am sure is clear to each and every one of you. I believe the court will also interpret it correctly. The same applies to the principle of free competition. The same applies to the principle of publicity and transparency. But is there any possibility that any of you could explain what the claim of proportionality refers to this Law means?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u25	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate on art. Two and we're going to vote. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal of the MP Mr Karadjov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 19 against 13, 70 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 2, supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 94, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u26	..Chapter 2................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. Under art. 3 under the name of the Public Procurement Subjects is proposed by Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs in art. 3, para. 1, t. 2 after the words "supplied through purchase', add the words "supplied'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Metodi Andreyev in art. 3 cancels the numbering of para. 1 and the whole text of para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Public procurement entities Art. 3, para. 1 public procurement sites are: construction, including: (a) execution or design and execution of construction, related to one of the activities referred to in Annex No 1; (b) execution or design and execution of construction; 2. supplies of goods carried out through purchase, leasing, rent or financial leasing, with or without the right to purchase, as well as all necessary preliminary activities on the use of the goods, such as installation or installation, testing of machinery and equipment, etc.; 3. the provision of services. (2) For the construction under para. 1, t. 1 point (b) shall also be adopted to implement a construction for which the contracting authority has a decisive influence on the type or design of the construction, regardless of the form of cooperation and the origin of the resources used.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u27	Statements on Chapter 2 and Article 2. 3? Mr. Karadjov, you have an unsupported proposal as well as Mr. Andreev. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I ask you to really pay attention to what we are going to vote on because my proposal is purely editorial. I apologize, Mr. Kirilov, for not being in the country when the meeting of your Commission took place. What I propose is to make an addition to the current text of art. 3, para. 1, t. 2, where the public procurement sites are mentioned. This is the article in this Law which introduces which objects may at all be subject to public procurement. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, if you open, Mr. Kirilov, you will see that in para. 9 says: "In the case of public procurement for supply through leasing, financial leasing and purchase of payment... " and the text continues. That is to say, here, where the sites of public procurement are explained, this form of acquisition is included, but in the main art. 3, where they're listed, it's missing. My purely editorial proposal is to think about it and if the House agrees, support it. It only fixes the law. We're not changing anything. Take a look at art. 21, para. Nine, and you'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u29	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Andreev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My proposal to release the text of para. 2 of art. 3, it's actually provocative. If you read this text as it was in proposals at first reading Bill, no one could understand what it was about. I found out which text of the corresponding European norm the translation was made from. With what Mr. Kirilov is reading right now, I agree, but I do not agree with one point, and it is this: the contracting authority cannot influence the design. The word design in English has a lot of meanings, such as design, design, idea, intention, concept. There is no way for the contracting entity to influence the design process. Designing is the holy-lighted for the respective rightful persons. The design is based on precise Bulgarian norms, or as the European norms are now entering. The contracting authority may influence the concept, the design, the idea, but the design process itself is nonsense! That's why I'm against it. Therefore, I ask for this editorial change to be written on the concept, layout, and design, but cannot be designed. It's like one of your contracting entities meddling with the lawyer in his direct legal work. Isn't that why a particular person, a lawyer, is hired to protect his interests in front of a court of law?! There's no way the contracting authority can influence me as a designer. This is ridiculous! This means making extremely difficult problems further in the relations of project promoters. Consider this thing. I'm a man who understands that, and that's why I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u31	- What's the line? I won't. Anyone else? I won't. We are going to vote on the name of Chapter 2 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 92, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Grozdan Karadzhov under art. 3 which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 19 against 4, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Metodi Andreev, not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 14 against 8, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 3 which is supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u32	Article 4 shall have the name "Nomenclatures'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. "Nomenclatures" Art. 4. (1) In the case of procurement, the nomenclature codes in the Common Terminological Dictionary adopted by Regulation (EC) shall be used. No 2195/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 November 2002 on the General Terminological Dictionary relating to Public Procurement (CPV) (OJ L 340/1 of 16 December 2002).). (2) Where contracting entities use other denominations in their activities, the award of public contracts must indicate their compliance with the General Terminological Dictionary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u33	Statements? I can't see. Vote art. 4 in the version of the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 78, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u34	Article 5 has the name of the parties to public procurement. There is a proposal from the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5, para. 2, p. 16 the words which more than 50 percent of the revenue for the previous year is from the state and/or municipal budget, and/or from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. suppliers of public procurement Art. 5 (1) Contracting entities shall be responsible for the proper forecasting, planning, carrying out, closing and reporting of the results of public procurement. Contracting entities shall be public and sectoral. (2) Public contracting entities shall be: 1. the President of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. the President of the National Assembly; 3. the Prime Minister; 4. the ministers; 5. The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria; 6. the manager of the Bulgarian National Bank; 7. the President of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, the administrative directors of the judicial authorities, who manage separate budgets, as well as the administrative directors of the prosecutors in the country; 8. the district governors; 9. the mayors of municipalities, of districts, of mayors, and the mayors when they are authorising officers; 10. the presidents of the state agencies; 11. the Chairs of the State Committees; 12. the executive directors of the executive agencies; 13. the heads of state institutions established by law or by a decree of the Council of Ministers, including separate structures of the executive bodies, where they are legal persons and authorising officers; 14. representing public bodies; 15. the heads of the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Bulgaria abroad, as well as of the permanent representations of the Republic of Bulgaria to international organisations; 16. representing the medical institutions "sale companies" under art. 36-37 of the Law on Medical Institutions, owned by the State and/or municipalities, of which more than 50 percent of the revenues are from the state and/or municipal budget, and from the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund; 17. the heads of central purchasing bodies created to meet the needs of public contracting entities. (3) Public contracting entities shall also be the associations of contracting entities under para. 2, p. 1-16. (4) Sectoral contracting entities shall be: 1. representing public undertakings and their associations when carrying out one or more sectoral activities; 2. representing traders or other persons who are not public undertakings where, on the basis of special or exclusive rights, they carry out one or more sectoral activities; 3. the heads of central purchasing bodies created to meet the needs of sectoral contracting entities. (5) Where a public entity performing a sectoral activity awards contracts for the purposes of the sectoral activity, it shall apply the rules applicable to sectoral entities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u35	Thank you. Statements? [[National Representative Grozdan Karadjov wants the floor.]] You want a statement, Mr. Karadjov? There's an unsupported proposal from Mr. Ananiev. Here you are, Lord Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Me and in the order of art. I am making an offer in Art. 80. 5, para. 2, p. 16 words more than 50 percent to be replaced by more than 30 percent of the revenue and the text to go on as it is. In practice, the current Law states that it is 30 percent in terms of medical institutions. With this proposal, we will put private hospitals, private hospitals in a privileged position vis-à-vis state and municipal hospitals. That is, they will not pass under the Public Procurement Act, respectively, and accountability and control afterwards regarding the spending of public funds, part of which they are. That's why I'm offering 30 percent. There will be no control over the other employees. Please accept this proposal and put it to the vote in art. 5, para. 2, p. 16 - 50 per cent to be replaced by 30 per cent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u37	I understand, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Dear colleagues, we will first vote on Mr Popov's editorial proposal in art. 5, para. 2, p. 16 and the expression "50 per cent of the revenue' shall be replaced by "30 per cent of the revenue'. We are voting for an editorial proposal by Mr. Popov of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. They voted 96 MPs: 10, against 44, abstention 42. The motion is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 15 against 25, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 5, supported and edited by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 91 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u38	Article 6 under the name There is a proposal from the MP Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs. Six down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, which is generally supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: "Contributor for a specific case" Art. 6. (1) The rules of this law shall also apply where public funds are financed directly by more than 50 percent of the following activities: 1. construction with an estimated value greater than or equal to BGN 5 000 000• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. services related to construction under point 2. 1, where their estimated value is greater than or equal to BGN 408 762 (2) In the cases under para. 1 the person who awards the contract, whether it is the funding body or the person financed, acts as a contracting entity for the particular case.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u39	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Karadjov, you have an unsupported proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, given the more precise wording made, my objections to this text are dismissed and I would like to withdraw my proposal, not to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u41	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Any other speeches? I won't. Once you withdraw the unsupported proposal, we shall proceed directly to the vote on art. 6 by importer, after version of the Commission. We are voting proposed by the Commission and supported by an edited text. Vote 89 MPs: 85, none, abstention 4. The proposal shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u42	Article 7 under the name: "Delegation of powers." Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1 a new sentence shall be created second with the following text: "The exercise of powers shall be published on the website of the administration of the contracting entity on the internet and in the register of public procurement on the website of the contracting entity concerned.' The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. "Delegation of powers Art. 7. (1) The contracting authority may designate an official to organise and/or award public contracts. (2) Except for the cases under para. 1 in the absence of the contracting authority, its powers relating to the award of public contracts shall be fulfilled by the person replacing it in accordance with a regulatory, administrative or other act determining the representation of the contracting entity. (3) The possibility under para. 1 cannot be used to divide public procurement in order to circumvent the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u43	Statements? I won't. We are voting on a proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 88 MPs: 22, against 7, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the text of the importer, edited and supported by the Commission for art. 7. Vote 91 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u44	Article 8 by the name of: "Communication of public procurement'. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. "Commercial award of public contracts Art. 8. (1) Two or more contracting entities may conclude a joint procurement agreement covering all organisational, technical and financial matters relating to the conduct of the procedure, the conclusion of contracts, the distribution of works, supplies or services covered by the contract and others. (2) In the cases under para. 1 each contracting entity shall be responsible for carrying out its obligations under the law, irrespective of whether the procurement procedure is conducted jointly on behalf and at the expense of all contracting entities or one of the contracting entities performs the technical activities of the conduct of the procedure, representing itself and the other contracting entities at the same time. (3) In the cases under para. 1 where parts of a procurement procedure are not carried out jointly on behalf and on behalf of all contracting entities, each of them shall be responsible for those parts which are carried out jointly. Each contracting entity shall be responsible for fulfilling its obligations under the law in respect of the parts it conducts on its own behalf and on its own account.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u45	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for art. 8 "Commission's text. Vote 84 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u46	Article 9 by the name of: "Communication of public contracts with contracting entities from other Member States of the European Union." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. "Commercial award of public contracts with contracting entities from other Member States Art. 9. (1) Contracting entities shall have the right to award public contracts, to conclude framework agreements or to manage a dynamic purchasing system jointly with contracting entities from other Member States. In the case of joint framework agreements and dynamic purchasing systems, contracting entities may award public contracts on their own. (2) Where matters relating to the joint award are not settled by an agreement concluded between the Republic of Bulgaria and another Member State, the contracting entities concerned shall conclude an agreement setting out: 1. the obligations of the Parties and the applicable national provisions to be laid down in the procurement documents; 2. organisational, technical and financial issues relating to the conduct of the procedure, the conclusion of contracts, the distribution of works, supplies or services subject to the contract and others. (3) Where a contract is concluded on behalf of and on behalf of one of the contracting entities involved in the joint award and another of the contracting entities involved acquires works, supplies or services thereof, it shall be assumed that the latter has fulfilled its obligations under the law. (4) Where a contracting entity establishes an association with a contracting entity (s) from other Member States, including European territorial cooperation groups within the meaning of Regulation (EC) No 1082/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 July 2006 on the European Territorial Cooperation Group (EGTS) (OJ L 210, 19 of 31 July 2006) or other associations established under European Union law, the applicable procurement rules shall be determined by an act of the competent authority of the joint association. Those rules may be the national provisions of the Member State where the headquarters of the association is located or where the association operates. (5) With the act under para. 4 are defined: 1. the period of application of the rules, except where an unlimited period is fixed in the instrument of incorporation; 2. the types or specific orders to which the rules apply. (6) Contracting entities may not use joint procurement with contracting entities from other Member States for the purpose of circumventing the law. Article 10 by the name of: Candidates, participants and performers. Proposal by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: "Candidates, participants and performers" Art. 10. (1) An applicant or participant in a procurement procedure may be any Bulgarian or foreign natural or legal person or their associations, as well as any other entity entitled to perform works, supplies or services under the law of the State in which it is established. (2) Contracting entities shall not require associations to have a certain legal form in order to participate in the award of a contract, but may lay down a condition for the establishment of a legal person where the participant designated as a contractor is the association of natural and/or legal persons, if necessary for the performance of the contract. The need to establish a legal person is explicitly justified in the opening decision. (3) An applicant or participant may not be removed from a procurement procedure on the basis of its status or legal form where he or the participants in the association are entitled to provide the service, supply or construction concerned in the Member State in which they are established.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u47	Statements under art. Article 9 Ten? I can't see. Honourable Members, we are voting on the texts of Articles 9 and 10 by importer and respectively edited and supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 75, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u48	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: supposed public procurement Art. 11. (1) Where the contract includes activities with more than one site under art. 3, it shall be awarded in accordance with the order applicable to the site which characterizes the activities of the main subject-matter of the contract. (2) Where the contract includes services and supplies, the main subject matter shall be determined according to the service or supply whose estimated value is the highest. (3) Where the contract includes services under Annex 2 and other services, the main subject matter shall be determined according to the service whose estimated value is the highest. (4) Where the subject-matter of the contract contains several activities, part of which is subject to the rules on public contracting entities, and for others the rules on sectoral contracting entities, or some of the activities fall outside the scope of the Law, the contracting authority may award separate contracts for individual activities. The rules applicable to the activity concerned shall be followed in the case of self-deployment of the individual activities. Where the contracting authority decides to award the activities to a general contract, the rules applicable to public contracting entities shall apply. (5) No decision to award a general contract shall be taken in order to apply more relaxed rules or to exclude the contract from the scope of the Law. (6) Where the subject-matter of the contract contains objectively indivisible parts, it shall be awarded in accordance with the order applicable to the part which determines the main subject-matter of the contract. (7) In the case of contracts involving a contract and a concession, the contract shall be awarded: 1. under the rules of this Law, when the contracting authority decides to award a general contract; 2. under the rules of this Law, where the subject matter is objectively indivisible; 3. under the rules applicable to each of the activities in all other cases. (8) In the case of a contract involving activities to which the rules for sectoral contracting entities and activities for which the rules of the Law are not applicable and which are not subject to concession and if it is objectively impossible to determine which of the activities is the main subject of the contract or the contracting entity decides to award a general contract, it shall be awarded under the rules of sectoral contracting entities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u49	Statements under art. 11? I won't. We vote on the name and art. 11 in the version of the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 79, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u50	Art. 12 has the name: saved public procurement. There is a proposal from the MP Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12, para. 8 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: Everywhere in the Bill and the expression "Rule of Law/The Law of Implementation of the Law" to be replaced by the words "This Law." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs: Art. 12, para. 4 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Public procurement reserved Art. 12 (1) The Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, shall determine by decisions: 1. a list of goods and services according to the General Terminological Dictionary which are intended to award specialized undertakings or cooperatives to disabled persons or to economic operators whose main purpose is social and professional integration of disabled or disadvantaged persons; 2. programmes to create protected jobs within which contracting entities have the right to maintain contracts. (2) When drawing up the list and defining the programmes under para. 1 account shall be taken of the national policies carried out, the strategies and programmes implemented, as well as the capacities and nomenclature of the goods and services provided by undertakings or persons under para. 1, as appropriate, the list and programmes shall be updated. (3) In the notice announcing the opening of a tender procedure under para. 1, the contracting authority shall indicate that the contract is reserved. (4) Central purchasing bodies shall not be obliged to retain contracts falling within the scope of the list under para. 1, t. 1. (5) In the event of the award of public contracts under para. 1 persons may participate provided that at least 30 per cent of their staff is of disabled or disadvantaged persons. In the case of para. 1, t. 1 persons must be registered as specialised undertakings or cooperatives of disabled persons at least three years before the date of the opening of the specific procurement procedure. (6) Specialized enterprises or cooperatives of persons with disabilities may participate in a contract under para. 1, t. 1, provided that they can fulfil at least 80 percent of its object with their own machinery, equipment and human resources. In order to fulfil the condition, they may use subcontractors or refer to the capacity of third parties if subcontractors or third parties are specialised undertakings or cooperatives of disabled persons. (7) Other interested parties may take part in a procedure for the award of reserved contracts, but their tenders shall be considered only if no tenders have been made by the persons under para. 1. (8) The terms and conditions of participation, examination of tenders, classification and conclusion of a reserved contract shall be governed by the Rules of Application of the Law. (9) The Public Procurement Agency shall make public the list and the programmes under para. 1 through its website within 7 days of the promulgation of the decisions under para. 1 in the Official Journal and provides a link to the register under art. 29 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u51	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw your attention to art. 12, para. 8. With the proposed text, the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, lays down the terms and conditions for participation to consider the bids for classification and conclusion of a contract for reserved contracts, i.e. for those of undertakings or cooperatives of people with disabilities and provides for them to be governed by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these are public relations which are subject to a lasting settlement, and such a lasting settlement is settlement only by law. If this matter, as proposed here, is to be governed by the Rules of Procedure of this Law, this will lead to instability and ambiguity because of the possibility very often and in a very easy way, without public discussion, to change on the part of the Council of Ministers on the proposal of the social minister of these very important issues on the terms and conditions of participation in the respective competitions of undertakings whose main purpose is social and professional integration or of undertakings and cooperatives of people with disabilities. I ask you to look carefully at this issue and if my proposal is accepted and dismissed. 8, with additional texts in this Section, we will be able to complement precisely these terms and arrangements for participation in the competitions so that they become permanently governed by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u53	Any lines to Mr. Karadjov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Karadjov and a group of MPs for the removal of para. 8 in art. 12, the Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 85 MPs: 14 against 4, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Karadjov and a group of MPs everywhere in the Draft Law and the expression "Manufacturer" for the implementation of the Law to be replaced by the words "this law." The Commission does not support the proposal. 90 MPs voted: 24, against 13, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs for the removal of para. 4 in art. 12, the Commission does not support the proposal. 90 MPs voted: 20, against 4, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 12 in the version of the Commission on its report. Vote 95 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u54	? Chapter 3???? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. Article 13 by the name of the General Exemptions. Proposal by the MP Rumen Zhelev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Svetlana Angelova and Galya Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u55	We're pulling him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u56	Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1, t. Five down. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1, t. 7, b. I'm going to get it. I'm going to get it, I'm The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: General exceptions Art. 13. (1) The law shall not apply: 1. for procurement and design contests to be awarded under rules established in an international agreement concluded under the provisions of the TFEU between the Republic of Bulgaria and one or more third countries or their autonomous areas for supplies, services or construction of sites intended for joint implementation or exploitation by the signatory parties; 2. for procurement and design contests awarded under the rules of an international organisation or an international financing institution where they are fully funded by the organisation or institution concerned; in the case of procurement and design contests co-financed by more than 50 per cent by an international organisation or an international financing institution, the Parties shall agree on the applicable procurement procedures; 3. for procurement and design contests awarded in accordance with procurement procedures established by an international organisation in its rules; 4. when acquiring or hiring, by whatever means, on land, existing buildings or other real estate, or standing on them; 5. in the case of orders for the purchase of programme time or provision of programmes to be awarded to media service providers; 6. in the case of arbitration and conciliation services; 7. for legal services related to: (a) representation of a client by a lawyer or a lawyer in an arbitration or conciliation procedure in a Member State, third country or before an international arbitration or conciliation instance, or in proceedings before a court, jurisdiction or public authority of a Member State, or a third party, or before an international court, jurisdiction or institution; (b) the provision of legal advice by a law firm or by a lawyer in the preparation of proceedings under (a) and the provision of legal advice on matters which may become the subject of proceedings under (a) and (b) the preparation of proceedings under (a) and the provision of legal advice on matters which may become the subject of proceedings under (a); (c) verification and validation of documents which must be carried out by a notary; (d) providing them by persons designated by a court or competent authority, or by law, with the execution of the services under the supervision of the court or competent authority; (e) the exercise of governmental functions, including judicial performance services provided by a bailiff; 8. in the case of financial services related to the issuance, sale, purchase or transfer of securities or other financial instruments, including services provided in connection with the taking and management of public debt, services provided in connection with the management of the system of a single account and the fiscal reserve, services provided by the Bulgarian National Bank, operations carried out with the European Financial Stability Facility and the European Stability Mechanism; 9. for loans, whether related to the issue, sale, purchase or transfer of securities or other financial instruments; 10. in the case of employment in accordance with the meaning of § 1, t. 26 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals; 11. in the case of civil defence, civil protection and the prevention of hazards provided by non-profit legal entities falling within the scope of codes of the General Terminological Dictionary 75250000-3, 75251000-0, 75251100-1, 75251110-4, 75251120-7, 75252000-7, 75222000-8, 98113100-9 and 85143000-3 with the exception of ambulance services for the transport of patients; 12. in the case of public passenger transport services by rail or by subway when awarded in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1370/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2007 on public passenger transport services by rail and road and repealing Council Regulations (EEC) No 1191/69 and (EEC) No 1107/70 (OB, L 315/1 of 3 December 2007).) 13. in the case of public contracts and project contests relating to the areas of defence and security to which the provisions of Part Four do not apply: (a) the award of which is related to the provision of information whose disclosure is contrary to the essential interests of the security of the Party, according to art. point (a) of paragraph 1 (b) is replaced by the following: (b) where the contracting entity is obliged to award and/or organise the contract under specific procedural rules under international agreements or contracts concluded under the provisions of the TFEU, between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and one or more third parties, or their autonomous regions, of the other part, for supplies, services or works intended for joint implementation or exploitation by the signatory parties; or (c) entrusted to undertakings of a Member State or to a third party in accordance with an international agreement or contract relating to deployment of troops, or (d) where the contracting entity is obliged to award or organise them in accordance with rules established by an international organisation; or (e) awarded under the rules of an international organisation or an international financing institution where they are fully funded by the organisation or institution concerned; in the case of procurement and design contests co-financed by more than 50 per cent by an international organisation or an international financing institution, the Parties agree the applicable procurement procedures; or (f) where the protection of essential security interests of the Party cannot be guaranteed by setting requirements aimed at protecting the information to be provided by the procuring entity in the course of a procurement procedure under that Law or by other measures with a lesser degree of interference; or (g) the implementation of which is accompanied by special security measures in accordance with the legislation in force with a view to protecting the essential security interests of the country; 14. in the case of public service contracts awarded by a contracting entity to a public entity or to an association of such contracting entities which have exclusive rights to provide the relevant services under a law compatible with the provisions of the TFEU, a regulatory act or an administrative act published; 15. for research and development services contracts where any of the following conditions are not met: (a) the benefits arise entirely for the contracting entity to use them in carrying out its activities; (b) the service provided shall be fully paid by the contracting entity; 16. for compulsory social security services; 17. for insurance contracts covering nuclear damage in accordance with the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage, which was drawn up in Vienna, Austria on 21 September 1988. (Rated by law............................................................................................... 64 of 1994), (prom., SG No. 76 of 1994; p.o.b., p.o. 91, 1994.), and the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy. (2) The Council of Ministers shall, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Interior, adopt a regulation governing the criteria and order for determining the existence of essential interests related to the security of the country in the cases under para. 1, t. 13 letters (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s)), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s)), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s)), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s)),), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s)), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (s), (
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u57	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, speeches? Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In here with art. 13, para. 1, t. Five jobs is very thick! And I turn to the gentle standing on the left-hand side so-called position. Colleagues, pay attention to this Law! I hear from you the term "light opposition" and so on, and here there are things that are direct conductors of corruption and the worst trends in our society, namely the trend without applying the Public Procurement Act, without auctioning or contesting to buy media services, that is to say, accept it as media comfort and do so without publishing anywhere. We are all aware that this practice of paying literally under the table with public funds of the media comfort of the so-called entities exists in Bulgaria for quite some time. Even when we signed the joint management agreement, honourable colleagues from GERB, we were very sharply separated. We were very different from the model we call the model "Who?" The model of the hoops from the media. The main recipients of these hidden public procurements for the purchase of media services, this is done mainly with this round, a hoop of media. You know very well who they are. Therefore, I do not turn to the DPS, because obviously their role here will not be in any way opposition, but rather support the distribution of money under the table for such media services. However, we are hard opponents for the media to become hostage to hidden payments, and we want them on top of the table and we really want them under the Public Procurement Act. In the current text of art. 13 However, contracting entities are proposed not to apply the Public Procurement Act to contracts for the purchase of programme time or provision of programmes to media service providers. It's really a money handout, götere. I ask you to support this proposal of mine in order to put an end to this wicked practice once and for all. My second proposal relates to another, no less vicious practice, which has been written repeatedly in the media, and this is the distribution of money, I think, up to 500 thousand. BGN, of legal companies without any contract. According to the reference I made, there have been over 100 contracts signed over the last few years. Over 100 contracts with legal entities up to the amount of 500 thousand. lv. Each is concluded outside the rules of the Public Procurement Act. And if the Law here is in point. 7 says that this is for representation and for conciliation procedures, and for arbitration, in the letter "b" of this. 7 The doors open wide, and it is practically said that there is no such door. It says so: the provision of legal advice by a law firm or by a lawyer in the preparation of proceedings under the letter.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. How does the contracting entity understand that one thing could become the subject of a procedure? He can imagine that absolutely any legal council could then be subject to such a procedure and accordingly distribute 500 thousand to a kaplak. lv. all those law firms that can do him any good may not do him any good, but there will be no market gauge at which the price paid to them will be determined anyway. So I'm asking you to do these two texts. Art. 5 of art. 13 and the end of the sentence of the letter "b" to art. 13, p. 7 down. And let us make it clear once and for all that for buying media comfort or for fictitious orders of law firms literally for analyzing the legal status that every minister in the ministries can do to you, millions will not be wasted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u59	Any lines to Mr. Karadjov? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Karadjov, we will support your proposals, but here we have also put the principle question that this Bill in practice as a whole confuses the procedures of the Law. And if you were so concerned about compliance with these procedures and opposition, I don't know how you voted on our proposal under art. 5 as regards the conduct of procedures for private hospitals. I don't know if you supported him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u61	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u63	Second line? A hole, Mr. Karadjov? You won't use it. To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u64	Thank you, Madam President. What is proposed, honourable Members, in art. 13, p. 5, first of all, and here I would correct my colleague Karadjov because he spoke very softly, in fact, is a blow to freedom of speech. You know that Bulgaria, sadly, has been under reasonable criticism for years of lack of freedom of speech, but when you give the opportunity through this procedure to buy influence, to manipulate society with public funds, it is now unacceptable. Dear colleagues from GERB, from the Reformation bloc and from all other political parliamentary groups, we have no right to become accomplices in this case. I don't know which mind, which expert and working group has created this text, but in this text with large letters the word "lo-bi-zum" pops up. What the citizens were protesting, what they were protesting. 2013 has public intolerance, has been pushed through with the text in art. 13, p. 5. We have no right to give such an opportunity, no matter who is in power today and who will be tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and so on. The media must be equal. They must have the same opportunity to access such a resource and not preferentially through e.g. 5 to give this opportunity. As for the second proposal of colleague Grozdan Karadjov, perhaps he from being a lawyer, softened the tone, but I will say something more serious. This is also about purchasing with public resources of a legal lobby which a legal lobby influences on some or other laws as it happens in respect of art. 417 of the Civil Procedure Code, as has happened in many other laws. And not just for a lobby, but for countering public interest. The most serious example is the case of the unaccepted proposals in the Energy Act, which are damaging at this time hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens of the nonsense, which require them to pay non-existent bills. Here is a drastic example against public opinion and in particular against every Bulgarian citizen. We will therefore support the proposals made by fellow Member Grozdan Karadjov and I hope that after these examples I have given you, we will support them all because, again, we have no right to become accomplices in lobbying texts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u65	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the name of Chapter Three "Exhibitions" and the name of art. 13 "General exceptions". Only the name of art. 13, then we will vote on the content. We vote on the name of Chapter 3 and Article 3. 13. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We are voting on the proposal of Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support these proposals. We vote. Vote 92 MPs: 35 against none, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to address you once again because I do not know if you are aware of how sensitive people are to these particular two issues. On the one hand, buying influence with such strong lobbying text in the Law will not go unnoticed, and tomorrow, when the media asks you, you will somehow have to answer. Please, think about this in no way is it going to violate either the business turnover or the contracting procedure, rather to refine them. And to my fellow Members on the left, I thank you for your speech and for your support, but count it. [[Elevator bell dings]] Count yourself in. Is that your concern for people's problems? Can't you call more of your colleagues to rewrite this text? Or you just don't want to. [[Replications by National Representative Chavdar Georgiev]] Or rather, you have at least one foot inside of this job, Mr. Georgiev, perhaps for law firms.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u67	Please don't enter into a personal debate. You have a re-election procedure, Mr. Karadjov. It's a re-vote. They voted 106 MPs: 43, against 4, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 13 in its version of the Commission report. We vote. They voted 100 MPs: 69, against 13, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Revoting Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for giving me the floor. I didn't expect such kindness.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u69	You asked for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u70	I would like to call for you to vote against this text, because those of you who are voting against it by name will be those who say 'no' to the shopping of media influence, 'no' to the shopping of lobby companies without there being a law on lobbying in the country, that is to say, illegal interference in legislative activity. Please be against it and show that you do not support this mafia model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u71	It's a re-vote. They voted 107 MPs: 70, against 22, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Article 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u72	Mrs. Chairman! Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14, para. 1 t.1 to fall. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: "Exhibitions applicable to public entities' Art. 14. (1) Public contracting entities shall not apply the law: 1. where a public entity carrying out activities relating to postal services, awards contracts or conducts a design contest in relation to the performance of any of the following activities: (a) services awarded for the purpose of making profit in connection with electronic means and provided entirely by such means (including the secure transmission of encrypted documents by electronic means, address distribution services and transmission of registered e-mail); (b) postal transfers and transfer operations carried out in connection with financial services covered by codes 66100000-1 to 66720000-3 under the General Terminological Dictionary and with services under art. 13, para. 1, c. 8; (c) philanthropic services; (d) logistics services which reconcile physical supply and/or storage with other non-structural activities; 2. for contracts and design contests supporting the activities of a public entity relating to the provision or operation of public electronic communications networks within the meaning of § 1, item 2. 39 of the additional provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications, or the provision of one or more public electronic communications services within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 40 of the additional provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications; 3. in the case of acquisition, development, production or joint production of transmission material intended for audiovisual media services or radio services to be awarded by radio or audiovisual media service providers; 4. for services falling within the scope of codes 79341400-0, 92111230-3 and 92111240-6 under the Common Terminological Dictionary and related to political campaigns when awarded by a political party in the framework of an election campaign. 5. in the case of public contracts awarded by a public entity, including when performing a sectoral activity, to a legal person if the following conditions are met at the same time: (a) the contracting entity shall exercise control over the legal person similar to that which exercises control over its own structural units; (b) more than 80 percent of the activity of the legal person shall be formed by the performance of activities entrusted by the contracting entity or its separate bodies or by other legal entities controlled by the contracting entity; (c) in the contractor legal person, there shall be no direct private capital participation, except for one that is not linked to control or blocking powers and does not have a decisive influence on the activities of the legal person; 6. where a legal person subject to control within the meaning of point 6. 5 (a) The contracting authority which controls the contract or another legal person controlled by the same contracting entity and for which the conditions of the contract are fulfilled. point 5 (b) (ii) is replaced by the following: 7. in the case of public contracts awarded by a public entity, including when performing a sectoral activity, to a legal person if the following conditions are met at the same time: (a) the contracting entity shall exercise, jointly with other contracting entities, control over the legal person similar to that which exercises control over its own structural units; (b) more than 80 per cent of the activity of the legal person to be formed by the implementation of activities entrusted by the contracting entities controlling it or by other legal entities controlled by the same contracting entities; (c) no direct private capital participation in the legal person, except for one that is not associated with control or blocking powers and does not have a decisive influence on the activities of the legal person; 8. in the case of contracts concluded between two or more public contracting entities, including when performing sectoral activities, where the following conditions are met at the same time: (a) establish or cooperate between them in order to ensure that their public service obligations are met with a view to achieving common objectives; (b) the implementation of cooperation shall be governed solely by public interest considerations; (c) in the last three years the contracting entities involved have carried out less than 20 per cent of the cooperation activity on the free market; (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. The entity shall exercise control over a legal person similar to that which exercises control over its own structural units where it has a decisive influence on the strategic objectives and significant decisions of that legal person. Such control may also be exercised by another legal person controlled in the same way by the contracting entity. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 7 contracting entities shall exercise joint control over a legal person where the following conditions are met at the same time: 1. the management and control bodies of the legal person shall consist of representatives of all contracting entities involved in the control, and the individual representatives may represent several or all contracting entities involved; 2. those contracting entities may jointly exercise a decisive influence over the strategic objectives and significant decisions of the legal person; 3. the legal person has no interests which are contrary to the interests of the controlling contracting entities. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 5-8 when determining the percentage of activity, the average total turnover or other appropriate indicator shall be taken into account, which shall measure the performance of the activity over the last three years. (5) In the cases under para. 1, t. 5-8 where, due to the date of establishment or the start of the activity of the legal person or contracting entity or because of its reorganization, there is no record of turnover or where those data are no longer relevant, it is sufficient to demonstrate that the method of measuring the activity is credible, in particular through its business programme. (6) The methodology for determining the price of the contracts under para. 1, t. 5-7 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. (7) Where any of the conditions necessary for the conclusion of a contract under para. 1, t. 5-8, the contract shall be terminated by the law of a new contract with the same subject matter. In that case, the contracting authority shall open the award of the new contract within one month of the withdrawal of the relevant condition. (8) The law shall not apply to contracts concluded by the National Health Insurance Fund with medical aid contractors within the meaning of art. 58 of the Insurance Act. In para. 7 is displayed when one of the conditions is dropped. I think it's when one of the conditions comes in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u73	Statements, coworkers? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Karadjov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. 90 MPs voted: 20, Against 9, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of art. 14 together with its version on the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 90, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u74	Article 15 under the name The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15. Article 16 under the name "Application of the........................................................................................................... The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: 'Applying exceptions Art. 16. Contracting entities shall not rely on the exceptions under art. 13-15 to circumvent the law. The Commission notes that, in the light of the above considerations, the Commission considers that the aid The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part Two. "Chapter 4" - Procurement procedures. Value thresholds. Estimated value of the contract. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. Article 17 under the name Proposal by the National Representative Desislava Atanasova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: "Improvement to be implemented" Art. 17. (1) Contracting entities shall be obliged to apply the order of procurement provided for in the law where there are grounds for doing so. (2) The commissioning of activities in forest areas for the creation of forests, timber extraction and non-woody forest products shall be carried out under the order of the Forest Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u75	Are there any speeches, colleagues, on the reported texts? I won't. I shall put the name and article to the vote. 15 by importer, supported by the Commission, art. 16 Name, as amended by the Commission, Part Two Name, Chapter Four Name, and art. 17 in the version of the Commission. We vote. Vote 95 MPs: 91, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted. Article 18 "Speeds" procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u76	Under art. 18 "A proposal from Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. The Commission does not support it. Proposal by Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u77	Report unsupported proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u78	Proposal by Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1 to drop points 3, 4, 8 and 9. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 18 para. 1 is amended as follows: The procedures under this law are: 1. open procedure; 2. restricted procedure; 3. competitive procedure with negotiation; 4. negotiating with prior invitation to participate; 5. a negotiated procedure with a notice or invitation; 6. negotiation without prior notice; 7. negotiation without prior invitation to participate; 8. negotiation without notice or invitation; 9. direct negotiation. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: Types of procedures Art. 18. (1) The procedures under this Law shall be: 1. open procedure; 2. restricted procedure; 3. competitive procedure with negotiation; 4. negotiating with prior invitation to participate; 5. negotiating with publication of a contract notice; 6. competitive dialogue; 7. Innovation Partnership; 8. negotiation without prior notice; 9. negotiation without prior invitation to participate; 10. Negotiation without publication of a contract notice; 11. competition for a project; 12. public competition; 13. Direct negotiation. (2) An open procedure and a public competition shall be procedures whereby all interested parties may submit an offer. (3) A restricted procedure shall be a procedure whereby tenders may submit only candidates who have received an invitation from the contracting authority after prior selection. (4) In the procedures under para. 1, t. 3-5 the contracting entity shall negotiate with candidates who have received an invitation after prior selection. As the basis for conducting the negotiations, the candidates shall submit initial offers. (5) A competitive dialogue shall be a procedure whereby the contracting authority conducts a dialogue with candidates admitted after pre-selection in order to determine one or more proposed solutions meeting its requirements and then invite the candidates proposed to submit final tenders. (6) An innovation partnership is a procedure whereby the contracting authority negotiates with the candidates admitted after pre-selection in order to establish a partnership with one or more partners to carry out certain research and development. (7) In the procedures of negotiation under para. 1, t. 8-10 and 13 the contracting entity shall conduct negotiations to determine the terms of the contract with one or more specific persons. (8) A project contest shall be a procedure whereby the contracting authority acquires mainly in the areas of urban and urban planning, architecture, engineering or data processing a plan or project chosen by an independent jury on the basis of a competition with or without awards. The project contest may be open or restricted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u79	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the current Public Procurement Act there are, I think, six or seven procedures described. Even with this option, it is complex enough and gives rise to quite controversial caselaw. There is continuous training of the administration that applies the Public Procurement Act, and yet, you know the mistakes, the scandals that are being made there. The search for loopholes to circumvent the Public Procurement Act is too, too much. In the present proposal made by the contracting authority, I, Madam President, I would like to ask you here on some issues which we, the MPs, are asking, in some natural way we expect and the contracting entity to justify here, otherwise they are...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u81	The contractor or the importer? The importer, you mean.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u82	The importer, I apologize! The contracting authority under this Law is an error.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u83	It's gonna be hard to find the contractor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u84	That's right. I apologize for the mistake, but the importer should be making some kind of explanation. This vicious practice of standing simply as witnesses to what is happening in this Chamber, without explaining why production was introduced as an exception, for example, provided that there is no such requirement. Now I would like to clarify my proposal. I propose that procedures that do not exist in the Public Procurement Act and which are not explained well enough in this text. That is to say, nowhere in this Law can you find very clearly and precisely what a competitive procedure is with negotiation or negotiation with a prior invitation to participate, or a negotiation without a pre-supplier? The name itself already smells of corruption and negotiation without a prior invitation to participate, i.e. simply negotiating with whomever you want. Besides, there are two other procedures that are hidden under the mask of art. 20, I think it was al. 3. In para. 3 is said: Contracting entities shall apply the order of award by collecting tenders with an advert or invitation to certain persons where public procurements have corresponding estimated values of more than 50 thousand, more than 70 thousand and so on. Apparently 13 procedures plus two more, as I told you in art. 20, there are too many, and I ask you to be reasonable and optimize this Law by reducing it to the current state. The European directive does not say to rewrite it all. It says that any national legislation should choose what is most relevant to the conditions in the country concerned, and we simply translate directives, we bring them here in this room, we vote them more or less machinely, and then we introduce chaos that we wonder why there is it. Let's have some sense now, let's drop these four procedures I'm offering you, and let's leave the public procurement relations in the relative stability they're in right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u85	Any lines to Mr. Karadjov? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we were a little provoked because the debate was naturally conducted in the Legal Commission. If Mr. Karadjov had attended, I regret that he had been absent from the country, perhaps all the questions he raised before the National Assembly could have been overlooked. We are transposing a European directive anyway. There are listed all procedures and in the same way they are applied in the Law so that we do not enter into criminal proceedings by the European Commission. It's the simplest thing I can explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u87	Second line? A hole, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u88	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will repeat once again: yes, I regret that when this article was discussed, I was not in the country, and I would like to clarify. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Whether I was on the Commission or not, Mr. Kirilov, I'm sorry, but since you're taking some attitude from the point of view, I have to tell you. Whether I have come to the Commission or not, because I have come to the Commission because, imagine, my time intercedes in some other committees, that is, I cannot be anywhere, I have the right in this House to express my opinion. So don't make comments from the place, it's not right what you're doing. I mean, the directive is the framework, it is not mandatory. The right of you as National Assembly as legislators is to choose those of the ways proposed in the directive, types of public procurement that are best applicable to our legislation and the conditions in Bulgaria. All these 15 procedures do not have to be included in our Law. This is misleading information. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u89	A statement, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u90	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u91	Personal explanation, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u92	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Karadjov, since two or three times you mentioned my name in your backside, which definitely affected me because this is an incorrect factual explanation, I specify the following. The working group on this bill started in mid-December, not to mention the beginning of December. It's hard to say how many dozens of meetings the task force has had. The Commission met one week last week, colleague Karadjov. The meeting of the working group was attended by a young lawyer colleague who was authorized by the Reformation Block Group. He represented, as far as he could navigate, your suggestions. In the Commission's debates, your proposals have been defended, I say again, as far as my colleague could have been able to navigate, by my colleague Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u93	Colleagues, please no assessment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u94	Nothing appreciated.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u95	Whether he or she is or not, he is a member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u96	Well, he's protecting someone else's offer. That's what I meant. [[Arrival in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u97	Okay, I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u98	But I admit that the Commission sometimes had to guess the motives, and here are the representatives of the Public Procurement Agency, they participated very detailedly, we have wasted a lot of time. Once again, if you had set aside 5 minutes, you would have been aware of the whole argument why it is so strictly insisted on following the directive in the types of procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u99	A statement, if you like, you can proceed as a statement. I also expect you to explain in plenary why the directive is so clear and that these are precisely the types of procedures. For a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u100	My fellow Members, I have not been present in a working group, nor in the committees in which I am a member have passed these texts, but I believe that I have the right to understand the answer to the simple question that is being asked in this House: is it obligatory to rewrite all the texts of this directive and as a body of national law, we can assess which texts remain? I am a contracting entity for eight years and I cannot explain these texts, which we are currently voting with a prior notice, without prior notice, with a preliminary invitation, without a prior invitation and so on. Let's get a single answer from someone to the question that's being asked here. I am convinced that 99% of the people present in this Chamber also do not grasp all these types of procedures described in the Law. I really appeal to someone to explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u101	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u102	Madam President, honourable Members! Colleague Markov, I think you know the answer and you're wrong in this way to slip your colleagues. You know very well that Bulgarian legislation can be stricter than the framework which the European directive sets out, and therefore you know very well that the proposal of my colleague Karadzhov is precisely in this direction. The Bulgarian Public Procurement Act should be stricter than the European directive for the simple reason that Bulgaria has a much heavier problem with corruption in public procurement than the average for Europe, which means that we cannot only be obliged in our legislation to narrow down the opportunities for corruption, to foresee stricter and more difficult procedures. We must cease to be the institutional pilgrims of the European Union by using every loophole for corruption, which some omission in European legislation does. Our law is always the softest possible against the authorities and their chances of arbitrary spending public funds. We go through the narrowest door, we take every opportunity, and this thing has to stop. I believe that is an answer, Mr. Markov, which you, as a longtime contracting entity, know very well. I would like to point out here that the answer to your question is somewhat contained in the lapsus that made Grozdan Karadzhov. Mr. Karadjov, the mistake was correct. You said it very well at first. The problematic texts of this Law are written not by importers but by contracting entities and in the interests of contracting entities and not in the public interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u103	Second line? Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u104	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Markov, I would also like to hear the answer to the question you have asked, but you should have stated precisely and specifically. Let our colleagues from the Public Procurement Agency come out and answer to the plenary of your question. I think that's why they're in the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u105	Third line? A hole, Mr. Markov? You won't use it. I expect someone from the Agency to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u106	On the issue of whether all procedures in the directive are mandatory, I would like to make an explanation. Yes, it is not really absolutely necessary to introduce all the procedures of the Directive. In this case, the proposal concerns the removal of three procedures which, although they have different names, are an analogue of the negotiated procedure in force in this Law without notice. It's about a direct negotiation. We have introduced it because it is required in the implementation of the Law. The absence of this procedure may lead to blocking the application of the Law in certain cases. For example, a negotiated procedure without a notice in the current Law and this project is provided for in the case of a force majeure when the contracting entity does not have time to comply with any deadlines. I guess everyone knows what a force major is - when he doesn't have the opportunity to meet absolutely no deadlines and has to act in an extreme situation. In this case, it is only possible to apply the negotiation without notice. Moreover, another case where we have copyrights and the only possible contractor of the order is the author. Then it is also pointless to run an open procedure, because another law will be violated. I mean, in these negotiated procedures without a notice, the cases in which they are applicable are fully settled, and they are from practice. If we do not accept these procedures, we will not, in fact, be able to implement the Law. You'll have to look for ways to break it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Manassieva, you have answered the specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u108	I just want to say that these complex titles have been raised because the question is: Why are there so many? The amount to be reported in this row shall be reported in column 060 of this row. They are European and they are by regulation. In order not to confuse the contracting entity, since the Law is framework and includes different groups of entities.... and public and sectoral, we have placed the same name of the procedure as is the name of the model to be published on the European market in..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u109	Thank you. Are there other MPs to speak? After the break, Mr. Kanev. I'm announcing a 30-minute recess until 12:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u110	Honourable Members, we shall continue the sitting with discussions on art. 18. There is a statement from the MP Radan Kanev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Indeed, this presence in this House on this particular text, which we are about to vote on, is more than worrying. We are currently voting at second reading the most important paragraph of the most important Law, which is coming in the calendar for this parliamentary session, and perhaps for the entire term of office of this Parliament, because a new Public Procurement Act is not voted every day, and there is hardly any law that has a more serious impact on the way budget funds are spent, which means at the same time on corruption in a country, on opportunities for public investment and on increasing the welfare of its citizens. Specifically. With regard to Bulgaria, this Law is of particular importance given the long-standing chronic problems with corruption that our country has and the long-standing problems with the non-financing of major public sectors at both state and municipal level. I would like to point out that in the diversion of public funds, according to data from the economic forum in Davos, Bulgaria ranks 104th from 144 countries observed. That is to say, we are far behind all the other Member States of the European Union, but far behind all the other observed rich and right-wing countries by overtaking only Middle East countries, Central Africa and some of the most troubled countries in South America. I repeat, 104th place out of 144 observed countries. When voting on this text, if we accept the offer of an importer or, as Mr. Karadjov rightly misjudged, the proposals of the contracting entities, we will open new doors for corruption and for the diversion of public funds. Instead of closing those doors that exist so far, we will create new prerequisites for corruption practices, new prerequisites for diverting public funds and respectively for wasting the taxpayer's money and ultimately continuing failure to finance the public services provided by the Bulgarian State. We have just learned from the experts that we are not obliged under the European directive to open all these doors. The expert opinion has been made clear. It supported the position of all MPs in the Reformation bloc who supported the proposal, part of these potential opportunities for abuse, to be suspended by voting on an edited version of this text. I would like to say two words about the consequences if we make it worse, instead of improving our public procurement legislation by voting on such a text. First of all, we will not move from this 104th place from 144 countries, and perhaps we will sink further down, which is a nightmare signal to any potential internal or external investor. Bulgaria will continue to be unattractive to its own citizens and foreign investors. The trend will deepen, under which in Bulgaria the main investor is the state and municipalities, i.e. the main investor is the taxpayer to whom we mistake in one pocket to provide public services with a 30% reduction from the other pocket. For this one hundred and four hundred and forty-four places, said in the simple language in which people speak, is a diversion between 10 and 30% commission from public procurement. The second consequence is the inevitable tax hike, which the Finance Minister is already talking about. With the vote on this Law, the Bulgarian Parliament will create a prerequisite very soon to vote on an increase in national taxation, just as the Bulgarian municipalities dominated by GERB and DPS are already starting to vote on an increase in taxation in the local authorities. In relation to everything set out and with the position that the experts have taken before us, I propose by procedure a delay of this text, while a sufficiently responsible representative of the executive authority I think that only the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister Donchev is responsible enough to explain the need to open all these doors to corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u112	Replices to Mr. Kanev? I won't. Any other MPs? [[Reply from MP Grozdan Karadzhov.]] Didn't you speak, Mr. Karadjov? I think you spoke. [[Noise and lines. A line from the MP Grozdan Karadzhov.]] There is no possibility of a second speech. You asked a question, they answered and there was no other procedure. You used your five minutes in the debate on art. 18. [[Reply from MP Grozdan Karadzhov.]] That's not an option. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Before we proceed to the vote, honourable Members, I would like to inform you that on the balcony of the National Assembly are children who are guests of the National Assembly at the invitation of Mr. Bajraktarov from the initiative: "Children for peace around the world." Let's welcome them. [[Applause.]] Mr. Glauchev as Vice-President took part in the meeting that was held with them during the holiday on today's plenary day. First, I put to the vote Mr. Kanev's procedural proposal to postpone the vote on art. 18. I invite the Quaestors to ask the MPs to enter the Chamber, there is a second reading of the Bill. They voted 93 MPs: 22, against 38, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr Karadjov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. [[Noise.]] We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Karadjov and a group of MPs. They voted 98 MPs: 22, against 23, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kadiev, which the Commission does not support. Vote 95 MPs: 12, against 40, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 18 by its name in the version of the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 80 against 8, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u113	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: supposed procedures Art. 19. (1) In the case of public procurement, public contracting entities shall apply the procedures under art. 18, para. 1, t. 1-3, 6-8 and 11-13. (2) In the case of procurement, sectoral contracting entities shall apply the procedures under art. 18, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 9 and 11-13. (3) In the case of procurement in the fields of defence and security, contracting entities shall apply the procedures under art. 18, para. 1, t. 2, 5, 6 and 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u114	Statements? I won't. Dear colleagues, we are voting Art. 19 by importer after version of the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u115	Under art. 20 has a proposal from the MP Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: seventy thresholds Art. 20. (1) The procedures under art. 18, para. 1, t. 1-11 shall apply where: 1. public contracting entities as well as their associations shall award public contracts with an estimated value greater than or equal to: a) BGN 5 000 000 supposed for construction; b) 264 033 BGN For supplies and services; c) BGN 500,000 For Annex No 2 services: 2. public entities working in the field of defence shall award public contracts with an estimated value greater than or equal to: a) BGN 5 000 000 supposed for construction; b) 264 033 BGN For services and supplies which include products referred to in Annex 3; c) 408 762 BGN For deliveries involving products outside the scope of Annex 3; d) BGN 500,000 For Annex No 2 services: 3. Sectoral contracting entities shall award public contracts with an estimated value greater than or equal to: a) BGN 5 000 000 supposed for construction; b) BGN 817 524 For supplies and services; c) BGN 1,000 000 For Annex No 2 services: 4. public and sectoral contracting entities award contracts in the fields of defence and security with an estimated value greater than or equal to: a) BGN 817 524 For supplies of military equipment, including parts, components and/or fittings thereof, including equipment included in the list of defence-related products adopted on the basis of art. 2, para. 1 of the Law on export control of defence products and dual-use products; b) BGN 817 524 For supplies of sensitive equipment, including parts, components and/or mountings therefor; c) BGN 817 524 For services directly related to the equipment referred to in points (a) and (b) for each and all elements of its life cycle; d) BGN 5 000 000 For construction directly related to the equipment referred to in points (a) and (b) for each and all elements of its life cycle; e) BGN 817 524 For services for specific military purposes or for sensitive services; (f) BGN 5,000 000. For construction for specific military purposes or for sensitive construction; 5. Contracting entities shall conduct a project contest of a value greater than or equal to 70 000 BGN. (2) Contracting entities shall apply the procedures under art. 18, para. 1, t. 12 or 13, where public procurement has an estimated value: 1. in the case of construction of 270 000 leva. up to 5 000 000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. in the case of supplies and services, including the services of Annex No 2 of 70 000 BGN. to the relevant threshold under para. 1 depending on the type of contracting entity and the subject matter of the contract. (3) Contracting entities shall apply the order of award by collecting tenders with an advertisement or invitation to certain persons where public procurement has an estimated value: 1. in the case of construction of 50 000 leva. up to 270 000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. in the case of supplies and services, with the exception of the services of Annex No 2 of 30 000 BGN. up to £70,000. (4) Contracting entities may award directly contracts with an estimated value of less than: 1. £50,000. in the case of construction; 2. £70,000. In the case of Annex No 2 services, 3. £30,000. In the case of supplies and services other than those referred to in points (a) and (b) of paragraph 1, the following shall apply: 2. (5) In the cases under para. 4 t. 2 and 3 contracting entities may only demonstrate the cost of primary payment documents without the need to conclude a written contract. (6) Public procurement under para. 1, t. 4 of a value less than the relevant threshold may be awarded directly, but contracting entities shall be obliged to conclude a written contract. (7) Contractors under art. 5, para. 2, p. 15 apply the order of award by collecting tenders with an advertisement or invitation to certain persons where public procurement has an estimated value: 1. in the case of construction of 270 000 leva. up to 5 000 000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. in the case of supplies and services of 70 000 leva. to the relevant threshold under para. 1 depending on the subject matter of the order. (8) Contracting entities under art. 5, para. 2, p. 15 may award directly public contracts with an estimated value below the thresholds under para. 7, and in the case of supplies and services can only prove the cost with primary payment documents without the need to conclude a written contract. (9) Contracting entities shall have the right to award a specific contract in order applicable to higher values, in which case they shall be obliged to apply all the rules applicable to the order chosen by them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u116	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. Vote art. 20 by importer after version by the Commission. We are voting in favour of the Commission, honourable Members. Vote 94 MPs: for 85, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u117	Under art. 21 has a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports it in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21: For the calculation of the estimated value of public procurement Art. 21. (1) The estimated value of the contract shall be determined by the contracting entity and shall include all payments without value added tax (VAT) to the future contractor of the contract, including the envisaged options and renewals of the contracts explicitly mentioned in the terms of the contract. Where the contracting entity provides for prizes or payments to candidates or participants, they shall be included in determining the estimated value of the contract. (2) The estimated value of a contract shall be determined at the date of its opening decision. (3) Where there are separate units of territorial, functional or other principle in the structure of the contracting entity which are not separate contracting entities, the estimated value of a specific contract shall be determined on the basis of the needs of all separate units. (4) Where the contract includes several lots, each of which is the subject of a contract, the value of the contract shall be equal to the sum of the values of all the positions. (5) Where a separate item is awarded on its own, the order applicable to the total value of the entire contract shall be observed. (6) Contracting entities may assign lots according to the order valid for the individual value of each of them, provided that the value of the individual position concerned does not exceed BGN 156 464. for supplies and services and 1 000 000 leva. for works and the total value of the lots thus awarded shall not exceed 20 per cent of the total value of the contract. In such cases, regardless of the residual value of the contract, it shall be awarded in accordance with the order applicable to the total value of the entire contract. (7) When determining the estimated value of a works contract, it shall also include the value of all supplies and services provided by the contracting authority to the contractor, provided that such are necessary for the performance of the works. (8) In the case of procurement for supplies or services which are regular or renewable within a given period, the estimated value shall be determined on the basis of: 1. the actual total value of contracts of the same type awarded during the previous 12 months, adjusted by any changes in the quantity or value that could occur for a period of 12 months after the award of the contract; or 2. the total estimated value of contracts awarded during the 12 months after the first delivery or service. (9) In the case of procurement for supply by leasing, rent, financial leasing or purchase of payment, the estimated value of the contract shall be determined as follows: 1. in the case of public contracts with a fixed duration, where that period is shorter than or equal to 12 months, the total estimated value for the duration of the contract or if the duration of the contract is longer than 12 months, the total value including the estimated residual value; 2. in the case of public contracts without a fixed time limit or whose period cannot be determined, the monthly value multiplied by 48. (10) In the case of public service contracts, the basis for calculating their estimated value is as follows: 1. in the case of insurance services, the insurance premium paid and other remuneration; 2. in the case of bank and other financial services, the fees, commissions payable, interest and other payments; 3. in the case of orders for the design of the fees, commissions due and other payments. (11) In the case of public service contracts without a total price, the basis for calculating the estimated value is as follows: 1. in the case of contracts with a fixed term, if that period is shorter or is equal to 48 months, the total value for the full term; 2. in the case of contracts without a specified time limit or with a period longer than 48 months, the monthly value multiplied by 48. (12) Framework agreements and dynamic purchasing systems shall take into account the maximum estimated value, excluding VAT, of all procurement contracts provided for for the entire duration of the framework agreement or dynamic purchasing system. (13) In the case of an innovation partnership, account shall be taken of the maximum estimated value, excluding VAT, of the research and development activities to be carried out at all stages of the envisaged partnership, as well as of the supplies, services or works to be developed and delivered at the end of the envisaged partnership. (14) The choice of method for calculating the estimated value of the contract must not be used for the purpose of applying a lower award order. (15) No division of procurement into parts shall be allowed for the purpose of applying a lower award order. (16) The award shall not be considered to be split within 12 months into two or more contracts: 1. with the site of construction or design and execution of construction; 2. with an identical or similar object which were not known to the contracting authority at the time when they launched actions on the award of a previous contract with such an object. (17) When determining the value of a construction contract, the inclusion of supplies or services not necessary for its performance shall not be permitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u118	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Dear colleagues, we are voting Art. 21 by importer, edited and supported by the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 87, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u119	? Chapter 5?????????????????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. "Department I........................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u120	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of Chapter 5 and Section I, supported by the Commission as a text of the importer. Vote 96 MPs: for 86, no objection, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u121	Article 22. A proposal from MP Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22, para. 4 the words shall be inserted after the word "educated by the Minister of Economy" by an order published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: "Destructions" Art. 22. (1) Depending on the type and stage of the procedure, contracting entities shall issue the following decisions: 1. for the opening of the procedure; 2. approving a notice of amendment or additional information; 3. approving the invitation to confirm interest; 4. for preliminary selection; 5. for the conclusion of the dialogue; 6. for the designation of a contractor; 7. for the ranking of the participants in a project contest and/or award of prizes and/or other payments in a project contest; 8. for termination of the procedure; 9. to establish a qualification system for the inclusion or refusal to include interested parties in the dynamic purchasing system or in the qualification system; 10. to terminate participation in a dynamic purchasing system or in a qualification system of persons included in it. (2) With the decision under para. 1, t. 1 The contracting authority shall approve the notice announcing the initiation of a procedure and in the procedures referred to in Article 1. 18, para. 1, t. 8-10 and 13 The call for participation as well as the documentation to the notice or invitation, where applicable. (3) With the decision under para. 1, t. 3 The contracting authority shall also approve the documentation where it is not approved by the opening decision. (4) The decisions under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 shall be drawn up in a sample. (5) The decisions under para. 1 contain: 1. name of the contracting entity; 2. number, date and legal basis for issuing the act; 3. indication of the type of procedure and subject matter of the contract; 4. the estimated value of the contract 5. reasons.. in cases where they are required; 6. an authorising officer whose content depends on the type and stage of the procedure and includes: (a) approval of the relevant documents relating to the conduct of the procedure; (b) approval of the amendment notice and additional information; (c) the results of the preliminary selection, including the reduction in the number of candidates, the results of the dialogue or the ranking of participants; (d) the candidates or participants removed and the reasons for their removal, including those related to the non-acceptance of tenders under art. 72 where applicable; (e) the name of the participant selected as contractor and, where applicable, the name of the sub-contractor and the share of the contract contract or framework agreement to be executed; (f) the conflicts of interest identified with regard to candidates or participants and the measures taken, where applicable; 7. to which authority and within what time limit may be appealed; 8. the three names and signature of the person who issued the act with the meaning of his office. (6) A decision to appoint a contractor shall not be issued in the case of contracts awarded after the conclusion of a framework agreement with a single contractor where it lays down all the conditions. (7) Contracting entities shall not be permitted to pre-execute decisions under para. 1. (8) Except in the cases referred to in art. 202, the contracting authority may amend or revoke any of the decisions under para. 1, t. 4-10 until entry into force. (9) The decisions under para. 1 are individual administrative acts which are issued in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u122	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Dear colleagues, under art. 22 we are voting on the proposal by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 25, against 6, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the whole text of art. 22 by importer after the version of the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 87, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u123	Article 23. Proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: "Preliminary notices" Art. 23. (1) Contracting entities may disclose their intentions to award public contracts or to conclude framework agreements over the next 12 months by publishing preliminary notices which, depending on the type of contracting entity, are: 1. a notice of prior information for public contracting entities; 2. the periodical statement of interest for sectoral contracting entities. (2) Where contracting entities disclose their intentions for the award of public service contracts under Annex 2 the term under para. 1 can be up to 18 months. (3) For limited procedures and competitive procedures with negotiation of public contracting entities under art. 5, para. 2, p. 8, 9, 14 and 16 may use the prior disclosure notice to initiate the procedure. (4) For restricted procedures and for negotiated procedures with a prior invitation to participate, sectoral contracting entities may use a periodic indicative notice for disclosure of the initiation of a procedure. (5) In the cases under para. 3 and 4 notices must: "1." published between 35 days and 12 months before the date of dispatch of the invitation to confirm interest, and 2. contains all information: (a) Part A of Annex 4 (b) Part A of Annex No 5 to Sectoral Contracting Parties. (6) In the event of the announcement of procedures under para. 3 or 4 for the award of public service contracts under Annex No 2 contracting entities may use a notice under para. 1, t. 1 or 2 for disclosure of the initiation of a procedure. (7) In the cases under para. 6 the notice must: 1. has been published between 35 days and 18 months before the date of dispatch of the invitation to confirm interest, and 2. contains all information: (a) Part B of Annex 6 (b) Part B of Annex No 7 (8) In the cases under para. 3, 4 and 6 in the relevant advance notice shall specify a period for the request of interest by interested parties which may not be less than 30 days from the dispatch of the notice of publication. In such cases, no contract notice shall be published. (9) In open procedures, contracting entities may use the notice under para. 1 only for shortening the time limits for receipt of tenders.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u124	Statements? I can't see. Vote art. 23 by importer after the version of the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: for 85, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u125	Under art. 24 "Announcement for a public procurement" "A proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: "The contract notice shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and in Art. 24. By means of a contract notice, contracting entities shall disclose the opening of a procurement procedure in the cases laid down by law. Under art. 25 "Announcement for amendment or additional information" "A proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25: "Improvement notice or additional information Art. 25. By means of an amendment notice or additional information, contracting entities shall disclose changes in notices, invitations and public procurement documents and in the descriptive document. Under art. 26 "Announcement for the award of a contract" a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26: "Administrative notice Art. 26. (1) Contracting entities shall send for publication a contract award notice within: 1. 30 days after the conclusion of a contract or framework agreement; 2. 7 days from the entry into force of the decision to terminate the procedure. (2) Contracting entities may publish the notice under para. 1, t. 1 and when entering into contracts in application of the exceptions under art. 13-15. (3) Where the relevant prior notice is used to disclose the opening of a procurement procedure and the contracting authority has decided not to award other contracts during its period of operation, this shall be explicitly indicated in the contract award notice. (4) In the case of contracts awarded on the basis of a framework agreement or a dynamic purchasing system, as well as for services referred to in Annex No 2, contracting entities shall send for publication a notice of ) (a.k.a. 1, t. 1 which contains information on all contracts concluded during the relevant quarter. The notice shall be sent within 30 days of the end of each quarter. (5) Where a sector entity completes a contract award notice relating to research and development (R & D), information on the subject matter and quantity of services may be limited to: 1. The suppliers... when the contract is awarded after a negotiated procedure without prior invitation to participate on the basis of art. 138, para. 1, t. 1; 2. information as detailed as that contained in the notice, which is used as an invitation to participate in a procedure. (6) Information from the notices under para. 1, the disclosure of which is contrary to a law, as well as one in respect of which the participants have rightly invoked confidentiality in relation to the existence of commercial secrecy is not published. (7) Information provided by a sectoral contracting entity in the contract award notice which is not to be published shall be taken into account in the summary of the information for statistical purposes. (8) Where a contracting entity is a contracting entity which is not a legal entity, the contracting entity shall indicate in the contract award notice the name of the participants that are included in it. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27 "Announcement to amend a contract or framework agreement within its period of validity." Under art. 28 "Announcement of Violent Transparency" "A proposal from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28: ? Announcement for voluntary transparency Art. 28. (1) Contracting entities may publish a notice of voluntary transparency when applying the exceptions under art. Art. 13-15 149. (2) The notice of voluntary transparency shall be an individual administrative act. (3) In the cases under para. 1 Contracting entities may not enter into a contract before 10 days after the publication of the notice of voluntary transparency or where an appeal has been brought against it until the entry into force of the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u126	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members, according to Articles 24 to 28? I don't see anyone who wants to. We vote anblok from art. 24 to 28 including by importer, edited and supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 79, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u127	Under art. 29 "Announcement for the conclusion of a contract for public procurement " " a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29: "Advocacy notice for the conclusion of a contract for public procurement Art. 29. (1) Contracting entities shall publish a notice of the conclusion of a contract indicating information on the performance or termination of the contract. (2) The notice under para. 1 shall be drawn up on a template and sent within 30 days of the execution or termination of the contract. Under art. 30 "Announcements in a project contest" a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30: supposes in a project contest Art. 30. (1) A contracting entity holding a design contest shall disclose its intention by means of a notice of a design contest. (2) A contracting entity which has conducted a design contest shall send a notice of the results of the contest within 30 days of its completion. (3) Information contained in the notice under para. 2 and whose disclosure is contrary to a law or public interest, as well as that in respect of which participants have rightly invoked confidentiality in relation to the existence of technical or commercial secrets, shall not be published.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u128	Thank you. Statements under Articles 29 and 30? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the texts proposed by the importer, edited and supported by the Commission, for Articles 29 and 30. Vote 88 MPs: 79, against 3, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u129	"Department II" "Publishing of information". Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes that the name of Section II be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u130	Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote on the name of Section II proposed as a text by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 79, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u131	"Publishing in the Journal of the European Union." 31. A proposal from Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 35. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 31 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as art. 35. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 31: "Content of documentation" Art. 31. (1) The procurement documents shall contain: 1. the technical specifications; 2. investment and other projects where required for the preparation of the tender; 3. the methodology for determining the complex evaluation of the tender, where applicable; 4. samples of documents, as well as an indication of their preparation; 5. Draft contract. (2) In the case of the design contest, the documentation shall contain: 1. the project task and instructions for its implementation; 2. all technical data necessary for the implementation of the project; 3. the criteria for evaluation of the project, their relative weight and the way to determine the complex evaluation of the project. (3) The documentation may also contain other documents which the contracting authority provides or to which it refers to in order to determine the characteristics of the contract or project and the order for the conduct of the procedure or which are necessary for the preparation of requests for participation, tenders or projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u132	Statements? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, the Commission's proposal to reject art. 31 by importer as it is reflected in its systematic place as art. 35 and the Commission proposes the creation of a new art. 31. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 85 MPs: 78, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u133	Article 32 "Publishing in the public procurement register." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 32 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as art. 36. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 32: "Access to documentation by electronic means' Art. 32. (1) Contracting entities shall grant unlimited, complete, free and direct access by electronic means to the procurement documents from the date of: 1. publication of the notice in the................................................................................................................................................................ 2. publication of the notice in ROC where it is not subject to publication under point 2. 1; or 3. sending the invitation for confirmation of interest. (2) The notice or invitation to confirm interest shall indicate the internet address at which the procurement documents are accessible. (3) In the cases of art. 39, para. 3 in the notice or invitation to confirm interest the contracting entities in accordance with art. 39, para. 4 specify the conditions and manner in which the procurement documents can be obtained. In such cases, the time limit for receipt of tenders shall be extended by 5 days. (4) In the cases referred to in art. 102, para. 3 in the notice or in the invitation to confirm interest, contracting entities shall indicate measures to be taken to protect the confidential nature of the information and the conditions and manner of access to the documentation. In such cases, the time limit for receipt of tenders shall be extended by 5 days. (5) In the cases under para. 3 and 4 contracting entities shall not be obliged to extend the time limit for receipt of tenders where it is shortened due to the need for urgent award. Sectoral contracting entities shall not be obliged to extend the period either where it is determined by mutual agreement between the contracting entity and the selected candidates. supplies of contracting entities in relation to the publication of the information. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 33 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as art. 37. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 33: "Instructions under the terms of the procedure Art. 33. (1) The persons may request in writing clarification of the decision, notice, invitation to confirm interest, procurement documents and descriptive document within 10 days of the expiry of the time limit for receipt of requests for participation and/or tenders and where the time limit is reduced under art. 74, para. Art. 2 or art. 133, para. 2 or, if necessary, an urgent award within 7 days. (2) The contracting authority shall provide the explanations within 4 days of receipt of the request, but no later than 6 days before the deadline for receipt of requests for participation and/or tenders, and where the time limit is reduced under art. 74, para. Art. 2 or art. 133, para. 2 or due to the need for urgent procurement.. up to 4 days before that deadline. The clarification shall not indicate the person who made the request. (3) The contracting authority shall not provide any clarification if the request has been made after the period under para. 1. (4) Explanations shall be provided by publication of the buyer profile.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u134	Statements on the two proposed new members? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, for the Commission's proposal to reject by importer Articles 32 and 33 as they are reflected in their systematic locations and, accordingly, we are voting on the proposed new Articles 32 and 33. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 91 MPs: for 82, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u135	Terms and order for sending and publishing of information 34. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 34 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as art. 38. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 34: Invitations to candidates Art. 34. (1) In the case of a restricted procedure, competitive dialogue, innovation partnership, competitive procedure with negotiation or negotiated procedure with a prior invitation to participate, contracting entities shall send simultaneously written invitations to the selected candidates for submission of tenders or for participation in negotiations or dialogue. The invitation shall be approved by the prior selection decision or the closing decision of a dialogue and shall contain at least the information on: 1. Section I of Annex No 8 to public contracting entities; 2. Section I of Annex No 9 to sectoral contracting entities. (2) Where the procedure is opened by a prior information notice or a periodic indicative notice, the contracting authority shall simultaneously send a call for confirmation of interest to the persons already interested in participation. The invitation shall contain at least the information on: 1. Section II of Annex No 8 to public contracting entities; 2. Section II of Annex No 9 to sectoral contracting entities. (3) Where unlimited, complete, free and direct access is not provided by electronic means and the documentation is not otherwise provided, it shall be applied to the call. "Department III" "Public Procurement The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose that the name of Section III be amended as follows: "Department III" "Publishing of information". "Intents" "Art. 35. Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov. The Commission supports it and reflects it in its systematic place in art. 31. A proposal from Daniel Kirilov. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 31. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 35 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as art. 31. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 35: "Publishing in the Newspaper" of the European Union Art. 35. (1) Information relating to the award and execution of contracts of value under Article shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 20, para. 1 as follows: 1. The notices referred to in art. 23, para. 1, including where they are used to disclose the initiation of a procedure; 2. the public procurement notices; 3. notice of amendment or additional information; 4. the award notices; 5. notices in a project contest; 6. notices amending public contracts and framework agreements; 7. the notices of voluntary transparency; 8. Notifications of qualification systems. (2) The notices under para. 1 shall be drawn up on samples validated by an act of the European Commission and shall contain at least the information referred to in Annexes No 4-7, depending on the type of contracting entity, type and stage of the procedure and, where applicable, the subject matter of the contract. (3) For each of the notices under para. 1 The contracting entity must demonstrate on which dates they were sent by confirmation of receipt of the notices received by the Publications Office of the European Union. (4) Public procurement notices which are not subject to the publication requirement may be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, provided that such notices are sent to the Publications Office of the European Union in accordance with para. 2. (5) The notices under para. 1 shall be sent to the Publications Office of the European Union through the Public Procurement Agency. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 36: Publishing in the Register of Public Procurement Art. 36. (1) In the Register of Public Procurement shall be published: 1. the decisions referred to in Article 1. 22, para. 1, t. 1 and 2; 2. the notices referred to in art. 35, para. 1; 3. notices relating to the conduct of the procedures under art. 18, para. 1, t. 12 and 13 for disclosure of the opening, changes, award of contracts and amendment of contracts; 4. Notices of the conclusion of the public contracts. (2) The decisions and notices under para. 1, t. 2 and the information contained therein shall not be published in the POP prior to the publication of the relevant notices in the Publishing Journal of the European Union. (3) The decisions and notices para. 1, t. 2 may be published in the POP after 48 hours after the confirmation of receipt of the notices by the Publications Office of the European Union, whether or not they have been notified of their publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Notices may be published before that time limit if they have been notified of their publication in the............................................................................................................................................. (4) The notices published in the POP under para. 1, t. 2 may not contain information which differs from that which has been sent for publication to the Publications Office of the European Union. Notices sent to the OCS and published on the buyer profile shall indicate the date on which they are sent to the Publications Office of the European Union. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 37: supplies of contracting entities in relation to publication of information Art. 37. Contracting entities shall send the decisions and notices referred to in Article. 36, para. 1 by electronic means to the Public Procurement Agency. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 38: Terms and procedure for sending and publishing information Art. 38. The conditions, procedures and technical arrangements for sending to the Public Procurement Agency and publication of information in the Official Journal of the European Union and in the Public Procurement Office, as well as the circumstances which are entered into the Public Procurement Office, shall be determined by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. "Department IV............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u136	That's it. Statements, colleagues, on the proposed new members, plus the name of the two sections? I can't see. We vote on the new texts proposed by the Commission and the creation of new members, respectively 34 to 38 plus the name of Sections III and IV. They voted 83 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u137	Rules for the transmission of information. Under art. 36 has a proposal from the MP Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36, which becomes art. 39: Rules for the transmission of information Art. 39. (1) The exchange of information when awarding public contracts shall be carried out by electronic means of communication. The tools and devices used and their technical characteristics shall be non-discriminatory, accessible and interoperable with the most common market products of information and communication technologies for general use and shall not restrict access by interested parties. (2) Contracting entities may, where necessary, require the use of tools and devices which are not publicly available, provided that they offer other appropriate means of access. The means of access proposed by contracting entities shall be appropriate where: 1. ensure unlimited and complete direct free access by electronic means to those instruments and devices from the date of publication of the notice or from the date of dispatch of the invitation to confirm interest, and indicate in the notice or invitation the internet address at which these instruments and devices are accessible; 2. persons who do not have access to the relevant tools and devices or who are unable to obtain them within the relevant time limits for reasons beyond their control shall be granted free online access to the procurement by generating single access codes, or 3. maintain another way for electronic submission of documents for participation in the procedure. (3) Contracting entities shall not be obliged to apply the requirements under para. 1 where: 1. because of the specialized nature of the procurement, the use of electronic means of communication would require specific tools, devices or file formats which are not publicly available or not supported by publicly available applications; 2. applications supporting file formats that are suitable for the description of tenders shall use file formats which cannot be processed by other freely accessible or generally available applications or which are included in a copyright licensing scheme and cannot be provided for withdrawal or use remotely by the contracting entity; 3. the use of electronic means of communication would require special office equipment which the contracting authority does not have; 4. The procurement documents shall require the presentation of samples or models which cannot be transmitted by electronic means. (4) Where electronic means of communication are not used, the exchange of information shall be carried out by means of a postal or other appropriate courier service or a combination thereof and electronic means. (5) When submitting documents for participation in the procedure, contracting entities shall not be obliged to require the use of the funds under para 1, where the application of funds other than electronic is necessary: 1. to prevent a security breach of electronic means of communication; 2. in the case of particularly sensitive information the protection of which cannot be provided when using publicly available electronic tools and devices and those under para. 2. (6) In each case, the transmission, exchange and storage of information shall ensure the protection of the integrity of the data and of the confidentiality of the documents for participation in the procedure until the time of their opening and examination, which is after the expiry of the period for their receipt. (7) In the case of works contracts and design contests, contracting entities may require the use of special electronic means such as electronic information modelling tools. In such cases, contracting entities shall provide other means of access under para. 2, until these instruments become publicly available under para. 1. (8) The instruments and devices for electronic submission and receipt of tenders and requests for participation, as well as plans and projects in design contests shall ensure by means of technical means and appropriate rules, at least that: 1. the date and time of receipt of tenders, requests for participation and submission of plans and projects may be specified; 2. there is no access to the data submitted before the deadline; 3. only authorised persons may determine or modify the dates for the opening of the data received; 4. at the different stages of the procurement procedure or of the design contest, access to all data provided or parts thereof shall be possible only for authorised persons; 5. only authorised persons must give access to the data transmitted and only after the scheduled date; 6. the data received and opened in accordance with the requirements must remain accessible only to persons authorised to familiarise themselves with them; 7. violations or attempts to violate the ban on access or the conditions under point 7. 2 "6" can be easily identified. (9) In addition to the requirements of para. 8 as regards instruments and electronic transmission devices and receipt of documents for participation in the procedure shall: 1. provide the stakeholders with the necessary information on the specifications for these tools and devices, including by encryption and providing a time-certification service; 2. specify the necessary level of security of electronic means of communication at the different stages of the specific procurement procedure; the level must be proportionate to the risks involved. (10) In the cases referred to in para. 9, p. 2 where it is assessed that the level of risks requires the use of advanced electronic signatures under the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature, contracting entities shall accept advanced electronic signatures provided by a certification-service-provider which is included in the Commission's trust lists (OB, L 4, 07.01.2011).), provided that they have identified the formats for advanced electronic signature on the basis of those established by Commission Decision 2011/130/EU (OB, L 53, 26.02.2011) and have put in place the necessary measures for the technical processing of these formats. (11) Where the offer is signed by an electronic signature provided by a supplier which is included in a trusted list under para. 10, contracting entities shall not lay down additional requirements to make it difficult to use these signatures by participants. (12) Where a candidate or participant uses an electronic signature format other than those defined by the contracting entity, it shall provide the contracting entity with information on the existing possibilities for validation of the electronic signature. These options shall allow the validation of the received electronic signature as an advanced electronic signature for which there is a qualified certificate to be carried out online, free of charge and in a manner understood by the persons for whom the language concerned is not born. (13) As regards documents used under a procurement procedure which are signed by a competent authority of a Member State or by another author, the competent authority or the other author of the documents may determine the form of the advanced electronic signature in accordance with the requirements of art. 1, § 2 of Decision 2011/130/EU. The electronic signature or electronic document shall contain information on the validation possibilities to enable the electronic signature received to be validated online, free of charge and in a manner understood by the persons for whom the language concerned is not born.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u138	That's it. Statements on the proposed art. 36? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to amend art. 36 by importer and renumbering it as Article 39. We are voting on the proposed by the Commission art. 39. Vote 78 MPs: 72, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u139	Public procurement through a centralized electronic platform.............................................................................................. 37. Proposal by Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 37, which becomes Art. 40: suppliing public procurement via a centralised electronic platform Art. 40. (1) Contracting entities shall use a single national electronic web-based platform when awarding public contracts. (2) Contracting entities shall use the platform under para. 1 and procurement through a dynamic purchasing system, a framework agreement and a qualification system. (3) The platform under para. 1 provides an opportunity for: 1. publication of decisions and notices in the Register of Public Procurement and Public Procurement Documents; 2. receiving inquiries and providing clarification; 3. sending invitations; 4. submission of requests for participation and tenders; 5. evaluation of tenders; 6. conclusion of a contract; 7. submission of applications under contracts; 8. billing; 9. payment; 10. exchange of other information and documents. (4) The conditions and arrangements for the use of the platform under para. 1 shall be governed by a regulation of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. "Electronic platforms of central purchasing bodies'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 38, which becomes art. 41: Art. 41. (1) Central purchasing bodies may use electronic platforms for centralised procurement other than the platform art. 40, para. 1, provided that technical compatibility and connectivity are ensured. (2) The central purchasing bodies shall meet the requirements of art. 35 and 36 before publishing the relevant information on their platforms.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u140	Statements on the proposal two texts? I can't see. We are voting proposed by importers and supported by the Commission, edited respectively, Articles 37 and 38, which shall be renumbered as Articles 40 and 41 respectively. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission for Articles 40 and 41. 84 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u141	Proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs: A new article is being created. 38a titled: "Acceptance of electronic communication systems. Control and the following content: Art. 38a. (1) Prior to putting into service the single national web-based public procurement platform, the electronic platforms for centralised procurement and other computer programs for electronic submission and receipt of tenders and requests for participation, plans and projects, they shall be checked for compliance with information security requirements and restricted access by authorised persons, as well as with the other requirements of the law on procurement procedures. (2) The check under para. 1 shall be carried out by a committee composed of an official of the Public Procurement Agency, three persons appointed by the Minister of Economy and three persons appointed by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. At least four members of the committee must have higher education in the field of information technology or computer networks, and at least one of the members of the committee must have higher legal education. (3) The Commission shall draw up a report on the compatibility of the relevant computer programmes with the requirements of the law, which shall be forwarded to the Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency. In the event of a negative opinion of the committee, the Executive Director shall refuse, by reasoned decision, the introduction of computer programs and platforms into service and shall give their authors a one-month period to remedy identified irregularities. After the expiry of the deadline, a new report shall be drawn up by the Committee under para. 2. (4) In the case of a positive opinion of the Committee under para. 2 The Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency shall, by decision, allow the use of approved computer programmes and platforms in procurement procedures. The decision is not subject to appeal. (5) The check under para. 1 shall also be carried out in any subsequent modification of computer programs or platforms. (6) The report of the Committee under para. 2 shall be kept in the Public Procurement Agency for a period of 50 years. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u142	That's it. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Delchev. This is an unsupported proposal to create a new art. 38a.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u143	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the last half hour we voted to create a single web-based platform for public procurement. We also voted on certain conditions for this single web-based platform, so that the security that is being introduced is secure so that it is accurate and so that in the most objective way to protect those who apply for public procurement. Such an example of such a condition is, for example, that the web-based platform does not allow any information on price offers to be disclosed before a certain period of time. This proposal, which we have made with colleagues from the Reformation Block, aims before this platform is introduced, that is, after it is created, but before it is integrated and implemented in Bulgaria, a commission of seven to specify whether the requirements of the law are met, to test the system so that we know for sure that it is secure enough and once released, then not to spend additional money and to award new public contracts so that this system can be corrected. This committee is intended to consist of seven people: three spokes by the Minister of Economy, threes designated by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and one of the Public Procurement Agency, which should be experts. And inside the provision it is detailed how exactly they evaluate the single web-based platform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u144	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, which is rejected and not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 88 MPs: 21, against 4, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u145	Article 39 "Access to documentation by electronic means'. Proposal by Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 32. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 39 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as art. 32. "Instructions under the terms of the procedure'. Proposal by Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 33. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 40 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as art. 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u146	That's it. Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject the text of the importer for Articles 39 and 40 as they are reflected in their systematic locations in other Members. We are voting for an enblock proposal from the Commission to reject Articles 39 and 40. They voted 91 MPs: 84, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u147	Art. 41 "Invitations to the applicants". Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in art. 34. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 41 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as art. 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u148	Statements? I can't see. We are voting, honourable Members, the Commission proposal art. 41 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as art. 34. Please vote on a proposal from the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u149	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 42: supplier profile Art. 42. (1) Contracting entities shall maintain a buyer profile which is a separate part of their websites or other internet address for which publicity is provided. (2) The buyer profile shall be published in the form of electronic documents: 1. all decisions, notices and invitations relating to the opening, award, execution and termination of public procurement; 2. the procurement documents, except where, for technical reasons or those relating to the protection of information, it is not possible to provide unlimited, complete and direct access by electronic means; 3. the explanations provided by the contracting entities in relation to public procurement; 4. the minutes and final reports of the committees for carrying out the procedures; 5. procurement contracts and framework agreements, including the annexes thereto; 6. the additional agreements for amendments to public procurement contracts and framework agreements; 7. notices of collection of tenders and invitations to certain persons; 8. the opinions of the Public Procurement Agency in relation to its ex ante controls. (3) The documents under para. 2 for each contract shall be identified in an electronic file. (4) In the case of the exception under para. 2, p. 2 the buyer profile shall disclose the way, place and order of receipt of documents which are not accessible by electronic means. (5) When publishing the documents under para. 2 is deleted in respect of which the participants have rightly invoked confidentiality in relation to the existence of commercial secrecy, as well as information which is protected by law. The location of the deleted information shall indicate the grounds for deletion. (6) The order and time limits for the publication of documents in the buyer profile shall be laid down by the Rules implementing the Law. (7) The publication of the documents of the buyer profile assumes that the interested parties, candidates and/or participants are informed of the circumstances reflected therein, unless otherwise provided for in this Law. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 43: supplier of the decisions Art. 43. (1) The contracting authority shall send the decisions referred to in Article 1. 22, para. 1, t. Three days after they are issued. The decisions shall indicate a link to the electronic file in the buyer profile where the reports and final reports of the committee or jury are published. (2) The decisions under para. 1 shall be sent: 1. at the address indicated by the applicant or participant: (a) to e-mail, such as the communication by which they are sent, shall be signed by electronic signature or (b) by mail or other courier service with a recommended consignment with a return receipt; Two by fax. (3) The method chosen by the contracting authority shall allow verification of the date of receipt of the decision. (4) Where the decision has not been received by the applicant or participant in any of the ways referred to in para. 2, the contracting entity shall publish a message to it in the buyer profile. The decision shall be deemed to have been served from the date of publication of the communication. "Chapter 6" is the preparation of the procedure. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. Section I...................................................................................... The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u150	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I can't see. We are voting together on the Commission's proposal for amendments to Articles 42 and 43, respectively, and on the name of Chapter Six and Section I. Please vote on the proposals made by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u151	Vote 98 MPs: 92, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u152	Art. 44 "Market consultations and external participation in the preparation of the documentation. Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov............................................................................................... 44 drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 44 a new para is created. 10 with the following content: The Participant shall declare the persons and their competence involved in the preparation of the relevant documents relating to the announcement and conduct of the procurement procedure. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u153	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u154	Madam President, colleagues, I have proposed this text because many times when making documents for public procurement, there are visible gaps and inaccuracies, especially when drawing up the technical part of the documents, the contracting entities and different specialists with different qualifications are made. Many of you who have had business and outside the parliament have dealt with such a business, have also dealt with public procurement, participated in public procurement and know this problem. There is nothing easier and more logical here for the people who have written these documents and behind whom a contracting entity has signed to be disclosed with their qualifications. Only in this way can we guarantee a transparent procedure and that these documents, for which many nerves and funds will be spent, are written by competent people. That's the point of the proposal, nothing more. Just because there is no such text in the European directives does not mean that we do not have this problem in Bulgaria. Many things in Europe are not problems, but in Bulgaria are problems. This is a serious problem and those of you who know what this is about understand what I want to propose. Especially in the technical part of the orders becomes insane, things happen in which one cannot make an offer. That's my offer. Think about voting on it. There's no politics in this thing, there's no behind-the-scenes arrangement. This is a common step towards full transparency of the process.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u155	Any lines to Mr. Andreev? I won't. To speak, Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in art. 44 We are told that when preparing for public procurement, the contracting authority can conduct market consultations, whatever the need for market consultations is, with an attempt to explain what this is, namely... to seek advice from independent experts or bodies, or from other market participants. Further down into al. 3 an attempt has been made not to encourage independent experts or market participants in a more favourable situation with regard to the procurement carried out. However, the measures provided for in art. 3 and down, in no way can guarantee the transparency and justice of this procurement. With regard to Mr. Andreev's proposal, I do not think that by announcing the competence and qualification of the experts we will get to greater transparency in the procedure, so I join and appeal to the entire article. 44 drop out and be rejected by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u157	Any lines to Mr. Popov? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. Switching to vote. I put to the vote Mr. Karadjov's motion to drop out of art. 44 by importer which the Commission does not support. They voted 94 MPs: 24, against 13, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 89 MPs: 25, against 12, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 44 by importer, supported by the Commission, together with its name. Vote 96 MPs: 84 against 8, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u158	Article 45 and its name "Requirements in determining the time limits for receipt of tenders and requests for participation' shall be supported by the Commission. The Commission shall support the name and text of the importer for art. 46. Under art. 47 a proposal has been received by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 47: Special terms and conditions for the execution of contracts Art. 47. (1) Contracting entities may include special conditions relating to economic or social aspects of performance, innovation, environmental protection or employment in the performance requirements of the contract. (2) The conditions under para. 1 must relate to the subject-matter of the contract and be indicated in the notice announcing the opening of the procedure or in the procurement documents. (3) The contracting authority shall require participants to declare that their tenders are made subject to obligations relating to taxes and social security, environmental protection, employment protection and working conditions in force in the country or in the country where the construction or services are to be provided and which are applicable to the works or services provided. (4) In the cases under para. 3 The contracting entity shall indicate in the notice announcing the opening of the procurement procedure or documentation the bodies from which candidates or participants may obtain the necessary information on the applicable rules and requirements. Section II "Technical specifications." Markings. Test reports............................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48 by its name "Determining technical specifications'. The Commission shall support the text of art. 49 by importer with the name of the applicant for the definition of the technical specifications. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50 under its name "Removements." The Commission shall support the importer's test for art. 51 under the name of Markings. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 52: supplies from testing, certification and other evidence Art. 52. (1) Contracting entities may require participants and applicants to submit a test report by a conformity assessment body or a certificate issued by such body as evidence of compliance with the requirements or criteria relating to the performance of the contract. (2) Where contracting entities require the presentation of certificates drawn up by a specific conformity assessment body, they shall also accept certificates from other equivalent bodies. (3) Contracting entities shall accept other appropriate evidence of compliance with the requirements or criteria relating to the performance of the contract where the participant for reasons beyond its control is unable to provide the certificates or test reports under para. 1 and 2 or not able to obtain them within the relevant time limits and provided that the participant proves that the works, supplies and services meet the requirements or criteria relating to the performance of the contract. (4) The competent authorities entitled to issue documents under para. 1 and 2 shall provide information to persons from other Member States on request within the scope of their competence, unless a regulatory act contains a prohibition on the provision of such information. (5) Contracting entities may require samples, description and/or photographs of the goods to be delivered and whose compliance with the goods must be demonstrated at the request of the contracting entity. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 53 under the name of it "Variants".
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u159	Statements? I won't. We vote on the reported texts, together with their names, from art. Art. 45 to art. 53 including as well as the name of Section II. Vote 97 MPs: 91, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u160	"Chapter 1 - Requirements for applicants and participants." There is a proposal from MP Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. "Section I "Personal status of applicants and participants ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u161	We vote. Vote 92 MPs: 86, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u162	Under art. 54 has a proposal from the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 54 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The contracting authority shall remove from participating in a procurement procedure a candidate or participant where: 1. has been convicted by an effective sentence, unless rehabilitated, for: (a) participation in an organized criminal group under art. 321 and 321a of the Criminal Code; (b) bribery under art. 301-307 of the Criminal Code; (c) a criminal offence against the financial, tax or insurance system, including money laundering, under art. 253 260 of the Penal Code; (d) crime against the holding under art. 219-252 of the Penal Code; (e) a crime against property under art. 194-217 of the Penal Code; (f) crime under art. 108a of the Penal Code; (g) crime under art. 159a-1959, Criminal Code; (h) crime under art. 192a of the Penal Code; 2. there are obligations within the meaning of Article 2. 162, para. 2, p. 1 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code to the State and/or to the Municipality and similar obligations for taxes or social security contributions under the law of the State in which the applicant or participant is established, unless the time-limit, deferral or guarantee of obligations is allowed; the type and extent of the obligations should be established by an act of a competent authority entered into force or proved by the contracting authority by appropriate means; 3. is declared bankrupt or in insolvency proceedings or is in liquidation or has concluded an out-of-court agreement with its creditors within the meaning of art. 740 of the Commercial Law, or has ceased its activities, and in the event that the applicant or participant is a foreign person, the person concerned is in a similar situation resulting from a similar procedure under the national laws and regulations of the State in which it is established; 4. is deprived of the right to pursue a particular profession or activity under the law of the State in which the infringement took place; 5. have concluded an agreement with other persons to distort competition where the infringement has been established by an act of a competent authority; 6. he has been found to be guilty of the failure to comply with a contract or a contract for a concession for works or for a service which has resulted in his early termination, payment of benefits or other similar penalties; Seven has tried: (a) affect the decision taken by the contracting authority relating to the removal, selection or award, including by providing false or misleading information; or (b) obtain information which may give it undue advantage in the procurement procedure. 8. there is an inequality as a result of a violation of the principle of free competition in the cases referred to in Article 8. 44, para. 5; 9. it has been established that: (a) has submitted a false document relating to the verification of the absence of grounds for the removal or fulfilment of the selection criteria; (b) have not provided any required information relating to the verification of the absence of grounds for the removal or fulfilment of the selection criteria; 10. it has been established by an effective judgment that the applicant or participant has failed to comply with applicable obligations in the field of environmental, social and labour law or international environmental, social and labour law provisions arising from the acts referred to in Annex 10; 11. there is a conflict of interest that cannot be eliminated. 2. Paragraph 2 shall be completed as follows: The requirements of para. 1, t. 1, 4, 7 and 11 refer to persons representing the participant or the applicant and to persons who are members of management and supervisory authorities and to other persons who have the power to exercise control over the decision-making by those authorities. 3. Alinea 4 is canceled. The proposal under para. 1, t. Seven is withdrawn. The Commission does not support the proposal in its remaining part. A proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev, which is supported by this point. 1 and not supported in the remainder, namely: "2." In para. 1 t. 2 of art. 54 the text of the municipality (s) is replaced by the municipality (s) in which it is registered and/or the municipality in which the applicant or participant develops its activity. 3. In para. 1 t. 4 (b) the text 4. In para. 1 is created a new t. 7 with the text: "7." is declared bankrupt, either in liquidation or has concluded an out-of-court agreement with its creditors within the meaning of art. 740 of the Commercial Act, or has ceased its activities, and in the event that the applicant or participant is a foreign person,.. is in a similar situation resulting from a similar procedure under national laws and regulations of the State in which it is established.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 5. In para. 2 the texts to other persons who have the power to exercise control over decision-making by those authorities shall be deleted. 6. Al. 3 is canceled. 7. Al. 4 is renumbered as para. 3 and more than 1 per cent of the text shall be replaced by "67 per cent of the text'. Proposal from the National Representative Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 4 and does not support it in the remainder, namely: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 54, para. (1) t. 1 the following additions are made: 1. in p.r.s. (c) after the word "codex" the expression "and crimes against the labour rights of the citizens under art. 172 of the Criminal Code. 2. the following new p.r.s. are added.Subcutaneous or intravenous use , (i) a crime against the political rights of citizens under art. - you are taking or have taken certain other medicines (e. g. medicines, medicines, medicines, medicines, medicines, medicines, medicines, ) (a.k.a. (1) para. (2) para. (3) and para. (4); (j) a criminal offence against intellectual property under art. Article 172a 172b; (k) crime against creditors within the meaning of art. Art. 227b, Art. Art. 227c, Art. Art. 227d, Art. Art. 227d. 227f of the Penal Code; (l) crime against the customs procedure under art. 242a. 3. create new t. 7, p. 8 and so on. 9 containing the following: ,7. has obligations within the meaning of art. 245, para. 1 of the Labour Code to employees employed by it; 8. there is an effective judgment that, in the performance of a contract for a public contract, according to art. 3, para. (1) no contractual payment has been made to a sub-contractor claimed under the requirement of art. 66, para. (1); 9. in the course of its commercial activity; the applicant or participant has failed to comply with applicable obligations in the field of labour and social security legislation, including under working conditions, established by a declaration or acts of the authorities of the General Labour Inspection. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, which is generally supported. A proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev, which is generally supported in accordance with the letter (s) and not supported in the rest of it, namely: (b) in paragraph 1, a new point 8 is inserted with the following text: It's 8 o'clock. have established by an effective judicial decision obligations towards its workers or employees within the meaning of art. 245, para. 1 of the Labour Code which has not been paid out. (c) in paragraph 4, in the main text after the words. The following shall be added to the list: (d) in point 2 of paragraph 4, the Union shall be replaced by a comma after the word "taxes" and after the words "social contributions" shall be added to the workers or employees. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 54: supposes for mandatory removal Art. 54. (1) The contracting authority shall remove from participating in a procurement procedure a candidate or participant where: 1. is convicted with a valid sentence, unless rehabilitated, for a crime under art. Art. 108a, Art. 159a " 159d," art. Art. 172, Art. Art. 192a, Art. Art. 194-217, Art. Art. 219-252, Art. Art. 253-260, Art. Article 301-307, Art. 321, 321a and art. 352-353f of the Criminal Code; 2. is sentenced by the effective sentence, unless rehabilitated, for a crime similar to those in point. 1 in another Member State or third country; 3. there are obligations for taxes and compulsory social contributions within the meaning of art. 162, para. 2, p. 1 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code and the interest on them, on the State or on the municipality at the headquarters of the contracting entity and of the applicant or participant, or similar obligations established by an act of a competent authority, under the law of the State in which the applicant or participant is established, unless deferred, deferred or guaranteed by the obligations or obligation is subject to an act which has not entered into force; 4. there is an inequality in the cases referred to in Article 4. 44, para. 5; 5. it has been established that: (a) has submitted a false document relating to the verification of the absence of grounds for the removal or fulfilment of the selection criteria; (b) have not provided any required information relating to the verification of the absence of grounds for the removal or fulfilment of the selection criteria; 6. has been established by an effective criminal decree or judgment that, in the performance of a contract, he has infringed art. Art. 118, Art. Art. 128, Art. Art. 245. 301 - 305 of the Labour Code or similar obligations established by an act of a competent authority, in accordance with the law of the country in which the applicant or participant is established; 7. there is a conflict of interest that cannot be eliminated. (2) The grounds under para. 1, t. 1, 2 and 7 shall apply to persons representing the participant or the applicant, members of management and supervisory bodies and other persons having the power to exercise control over the decision-making of those bodies. (3) Alinea 1, t. 3 shall not apply where: 1. special state or public interests must be protected; 2. the amount of unpaid taxes or social security contributions shall be no more than 1 per cent of the amount of the annual total turnover for the last completed financial year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u163	Statements? Mr. Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u164	This text is extremely important "the text of art. 54, para. 1, since it is the first time that qualities are listed, which, if a company owns them, cannot be admitted to participation in a public procurement. However, we are somehow very shyly limiting these conditions. For example, I cannot understand for what reason, speaking, of course, of honest and honest elections, we do not hold back or accept the proposal if a firm has actively participated in the formation of a vote, which means it has committed a crime under the NK against the political rights of citizens. There are many cases in the last and previous elections when this. There was even an investigation into famous television stations for such companies. I cannot understand why we tolerate companies that use their monopoly position in a given area and influence the vote of citizens in this way!? I can't understand the reason why this thing was rejected as a condition that a firm should not participate in a public procurement contract! Then, when we talk about crimes against intellectual property, these are some of the most serious crimes in the modern world. It is no secret that many companies in our arms industry use intellectual property without owning it, and thus compete the state enterprise and the state makes for them closed public procurements in which they participate with not their intellectual property. This is a fact, and there are people here who know about this fact. I cannot understand why, for example, this article has been rejected when there is a crime against intellectual property. 172 b?! I don't understand. It's not normal! Are we a modern state, or are we going to stimulate intellectual property theft and public procurement in this way?! Then: crimes against the customs regime. And we're talking against smuggling, when it comes to what we're talking about, to limit the possibility of companies involved in this kind of activity not participating in public procurement, are we rejecting it? That's what I can't figure out. From what the Commission supports, I have not been able to understand whether there is a clear text in the Commission's edited proposals to put an end to the non-payment of obligations to the delegate. This has become a pandemic in Bulgaria. A mass of companies fail because large, powerful corporations that enjoy political support win public procurement, then subcontractors don't get paid money. It's been a known fact for years. If this is not written accurately and clearly in the conditions for a firm that has allowed such a thing to be unable to participate in public procurement, then we protect and stimulate non-payment to subcontractors. These are extremely important facts to me that we should not ignore if we make a modern law. I believe that this Law has the ambition to be a modern, really European law, but without these things somehow does not work. We know these things, and if we haven't stopped them now, there's no other way to stop them. Therefore, I ask you to support these proposals because they concern precisely this kind of criminal activity!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-20.u165	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group in its unsupported part of the Commission. We vote. Vote 92 MPs: 26, Against 6, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Kadiev's proposal in his unsupported part of the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 11 against 31, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Nastimir Ananiev and a group in the part where the Commission does not support him. They voted 98 MPs: 14 against 10, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal in the unsupported part of the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 25, against 10, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the name of art. 54 and its version in accordance with the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 91, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here we will interrupt the second reading of the Public Procurement Bill due to the expiry of the time scheduled for today's plenary session. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session starting at 9:00 p.m. Adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
