ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. Abort registration. Next attempt to reach the "11:15 p.m. Opened at 11:16 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u2	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. Colleagues, today's extraordinary meeting, according to last week's decision of the National Assembly, has a two-point programme: 1. Second vote on the Public Procurement Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was adopted in the first vote on 29 October 2015. It's a follow-up from last week. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was adopted in the first vote on 26 November 2015. Before we begin, I will make two announcements: The national statistical institute received information on the business climate in industry, construction, retail and services in January 2016, and a general index of producer prices in industry, and indexes of producer prices in the internal market for December 2015. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 28 January 2016, the National Assembly received for information a Report on the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process in the European Union during the Luxembourg Presidency of the Council of the European Union, July The materials are provided to the MPs of their e-mails. On behalf of the Group of the Reformation
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u3	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Yesterday was February 1st. The day of honor to the victims of the communist regime. On this day 71 years ago was killed most of Bulgaria's elite ministers, MPs, doctors, military. Killed and buried in an unknown grave are part of the tens of thousands of victims of BCP terror. Seventy-one years later, the killers haven't been punished yet. Seventy-one years later, the killers haven't even repented yet, but 71 years later, memory is still alive. In 2000, the National Assembly of Bulgaria passed a law declaring the communist regime criminal. In 2015, the National Assembly voted to waive the limitation period for the crimes committed during the years of management of the BCP. On this date in 1945, the First Chamber of the People's Court announced the death sentences of 67 MPs, 22 ministers, headed by the prime ministers Akad. Bogdan Filov, Ivan Bagryanov, Dobri Bozhilov, of the governments from 1941 to 9 September 1944, 47 generals and senior officers, eight royal advisers, and the regents of the juvenile king. Only the last prime minister, Konstantin Muraviev, escapes death with a sentence of 15 years in prison. Death sentences were executed on the night of February 1st against February 2nd. For the record, the Nuremberg trial of the Nazi Party's elite has sentenced 24 people to crimes against humanity in total, and many of those convicted are justified. The construction of a fairer one, according to the victors, a more social society, the communist one, is connected with the People's Court, with the construction of new concentration camps in the type of Soviet, with the crushing of the insurgents, and the change of morals, and the values of an entire nation. Let's put aside ideological controversy about how to determine what happened on this date September 9th as a coup, rebellion, occupation or revolution. The question is: how do the so-called revolutionaries act, the so-called liberators? There are many questions that we sweep away in the hope of forgetting the darkness that lasted 45 years. Who is responsible for the killing of the intellectuals in Bulgaria, for the killing of the comedians, for the killing of the officers? Who gave power to forgiveness not justice, but revenge and plunder? What is the number of victims after the arrival of the new power? 2700 or 180,000 people? How many guerrillas were there, a thousand or 14 thousand? An innocent victim defines the so-called People's Authority as a dark-bessed, and the innocent victims are much more. No one should justify the victims before September 9th, they died as illegal guerrillas, Yahtahs, involved in battle groups from 1941 to 1944. 2380 people. The death penalty was 68, and the number of victims after the 9th September coup speaks for themselves - eight thousand criminal prisoners were put on the street to help the new power, then became active members of the BCP. Thirty thousand doctors, priests, mayors, teachers, intelligents, killed during the hundred days of the Red Terror, immediately after 9 September 1944. Two thousand Bulgarian officers repressed immediately after their return from the front. Two hundred and twenty thousand people who passed through concentration camps in Belene, Sunny Beach, Scravena, Bogdanov Dol; two thousand Goryans, most shot without trial and conviction; 11 thousand people convicted by the People's Court, of which 1500 were already killed and 300 executed death sentences, violent Macedonianization of 310 thousand Bulgarians in the Pirin region; destruction of the opposition and hanging of its leader Nikola Petkov. The People's Court legalized the left-wing red terror in Bulgaria and sold it to the Soviet Union. The court was set up by Decree on 4 October 1944 and is ahead of almost a month of the Moscow truce signed on 28 October 1944. No one foresees the nearly three thousand death sentences, nor does it suggest the nearly two thousand life sentences as a result of this tribunal. The People's Court has been ahead for several years and the provisions of the Paris Peace Treaty and this document, signed by Bulgaria, does not justify the red terror, the killing without trial and sentence of thousands of Bulgarians, nor the legal arbitrariness of the People's Court. Let's bow our heads and keep our mouths shut. Everyone with their memories of loved ones, friends and great Bulgarian men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u4	On behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group, Dr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u5	Madam President, honourable Members! The ABB parliamentary group condemns the taking of innocent victims, regardless of which party, from which government and during which period of our history. Unfortunately, our Balkan mores have contributed to this quite a bit, starting with the government of Stambolov, Stamboliiski, the Nine-June coup, the attack on St. Sunday, the period 1939 and 1944 and the period thereafter of the People's Court. We believe that we must honor all innocent victims, no matter when they are given, at which government................... it was monarchic, Republican, Communist,....... because they are people who have lost their lives without having any guilt.... at best for having some ideological views and ideas. We must not push a new dividing line into our society, which is already divided. We must be tolerant of all those who have died for their ideas, for our thoughts, for our views. We always say that we strive for Europe. Give in this regard an example from a European country. Near Madrid is the so-called Valley of Death (Valle de los caidos). There in a huge rainbow basilica on the left are buried all the victims of the Republicans of the Civil War, on the right, all supporting Franco, and the center is buried Franco himself. I've been there, and I can tell you there are flowers everywhere. The Spanish have shown that in Europe we can not spend dividing lines but remove these dividing lines. I therefore propose, on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group, that we honor all the innocent victims of terror, regardless of when they were given. Thank you. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u6	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! History must not be forgotten, however, along with this we cannot live with only history. The attempts today to explain Bulgaria's problems mainly by what happened and did not happen in the previous decades or in the past years sound like self-righteousness from everyone who wants to find the main explanation in them. What Mr. Kuchukov said a little while ago, in a similar way was said by this tribune back in 1990, but then, from this tribune, the President of BSP Alexander Lilov said: "Let's close the page of the past. "The then leader of the opposition Jelyu Zhelev said: "We must first read it. " This reading has been going on for 25 years now, but reading should not be an excuse for what pages are written in the present reality of Bulgaria because it is strange that today the new wave of anti-communism is stronger than ten years ago. The attempts of a controversial right-wing formation to find legitimization, constantly dealing with history, also show the inability to respond to today's problems. Yes, there have been victims, but here we have to say that not all the victims are innocent, because when you talk about anti-fascist resistance from 1941 to 1944, you should not miss that this period starts back in the 20s and when it comes to the People's House of Violence, it should be borne in mind that this house, which was confiscated by those who built it with their own funds, was then the place where many of them were tortured, beaten and killed. This civil war in Bulgaria lasts about a quarter of a century and its accounts cannot be made in this way.. how many are condemned by the People's Court in Bulgaria and how many in other countries, because in other countries the sentences of those who are guilty of involving their peoples in the war against the united nations are not limited to these forms, there and the general justice in some countries is concerned with this topic. I really want us to stick to the principles of fair justice and let it come when the time is right, not when the story has passed. I regret that today we pay so much attention to these issues because, I say again, in many cases they are an attempt to create new biographies by people who have not shown such enviable empathy and desire to oppose the injustices or unjustified repression, and some of them have conveniently resided under the wing of their parents, relatives and families, who then have been much more anxious to point out themselves as empathetic to the people's lowlands, to the resistance of the Bulgarian people against fascism, and once their relatives have made their successful career more or less, they have hurryed to wear the democratic mantle after the changes, some of them to change into several parties, to have any current incarnations and always be in a place closer to power. These are today a large part of the moral judges of Bulgarian history. Therefore, using the fact that fewer and fewer are those who have the opportunity and the right to speak on this subject, as really victims, as people who have consistently maintained behavior that has cost them not only hardships but sometimes severe losses, they are the new moralists of the Bulgarian society. Without denying all the pages of Bulgarian history, including the acts of unfair and illegal violence, we need to understand that marking such dates cannot be used as an attempt to further divide the Bulgarian nation. If we continue on this path, in Bulgaria it seems that two monuments will have to be erected in the center.. one monument of stupidity and the other even bigger one....................................................................................... We want to be one of those who will raise the creation that will really give due respect to all people who have fought for their ideas, who have consistently defended them and who have contributed to the welfare and independence of the Bulgarian people. This is today the great lesson of all historical dates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u8	Mr. Rosen Petrov from the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Bulgarian history is history cruel, tragic, full of aggression and death. After the collapse of the national ideal in the wars for national union, we Bulgarians take on a disastrous thing for us to hate ourselves more than anyone else. I listened to the previous speakers, and they were all right. We've heard of the September riots and the September uprising. There was then a voivod who entered the villages and said, "Don't be afraid, children, grandpa Kolyo, light cars. The same happened after 9 September, when Dragov's son, the great Bulgarian Colonel Kiril Dragov, was killed by the DHS services in front of his children. You can ask Raina Dragova, she's still alive. The fate of the four sons of Raina Knyaginya is similar to that of the Bulgarian heroine, all killed after 9 September, in camps. For me, if dates such as 1 February and 9 September matter, it really is the meaning of the national union, which is written on our crest, because on the Greek crest it says "Death or freedom" and on our crest it says "unity makes the force." I'm going to give you a simple example of how when the left and right come together, great things have been created. Ivan Minkov, major, hero of the Balkan War, member of the military organization of the BCP, is the author of the music of the Trauma March of the Bulgarian Army. The new cemetery over Slivnitsa. You know who is the author of the text Ivan Vazov. So when Vazov and Minkov united, they created something great and respectable. So, in spite of all the aggression and cruelty we've experienced today, let's not really draw, as our colleague at ABB said, dividing lines, let's look forward and know that what can lead us on a better path, what can give us a more decent life indeed, despite the whole cliché of these spoken words, is that the Union makes the force. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u10	On behalf of the DPS parliamentary group, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we would like to present to your attention a Declaration on the occasion of the Day of Appreciation and Honor to the victims of the Communist regime. However, we are in a hurry to make the clarification that the declaration does not have the claim to judge, mentor or reproach. The only purpose of this declaration, as well as of many others of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, is to remember, to honor and not to fall victim to the old traps of the past, but not to fall into new ones. The movement for rights and freedoms as part of the democratic community in Bulgaria, of course, joins the pain and gratefully honors the relatives and victims of the communist regime and all other anti-democratic regimes, including totalitarian, fascist and national socialist. To us, honor and gratitude are not just a matter of political self-determination, much less a question of demarcation. On the contrary, for the DPS it is a matter of national self-consciousness and is an important part of political and civic memory. We believe that this memory defines the future behavior of the Bulgarian nation and is a reperer of democracy and normality in Bulgaria at all. To be sincere about the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the subject of crimes of anti-democratic regimes is particularly sensitive, especially against the backdrop of the so-called revival process. Yes, a large number of elderly DPS sympathizers know what is unfair and undemocratic attitude through their own backs, and many young DPS sympathizers understand these lessons precisely through the power of memory of this part of the Bulgarian society and appreciate the problems in the Criminal Code, which we have recently adopted together with you, in order to carry on personal, I repeat, personal responsibility for the crimes committed under the principle of rule of law. But, honourable Members, these elderly and young people know a valuable lesson. No, democracy is not defeated by aggression, but only with more democracy and memory. Since the time of the Liberation we have seen how totalitarian attitude in combination with the lack of memory quickly causes the victims and the bullies to change their roles and the elite of the Bulgarian nation to be cyclically subjected to repression and rematchism, which brings only new sufferings and more, and more divisions and contradictions in the Bulgarian society. The examples are numerous and we do not have the claim to list them, but it is worth mentioning one, unfortunately, especially relevant, which illustrates how the lack of memory allows each year the so-called "Lukov March" to take place. Dear colleagues, as we promised at the beginning of this declaration, we will not judge or mentor, but we believe that it is healthy for society and memory to hear more voices and opinions. I also have a special call from the young people of the DPS. As young people, we address young people from all parties and parliamentary groups here in the Chamber and outside it with a call to keep the memory and to promote civil and democratic education, including at school, but not because the DPS has such a bill, but because young people are tired of divisions and contradictions in society caused precisely by the lack of memory. We believe that today young people do not want sharp oppositions and bans that reflect extreme positions, but want discussions and debates that will free them from feelings of guilt and revenge and will make them free with their eyes to analyze and remember. And here, in this Chamber, we are obliged to have eyes, ears and a sense to stop any beginnings of totalitarianism in Bulgarian politics. We therefore call for celebrations such as to be noted in unity by all of us. Once again, we bow our heads to the victims of totalitarian regimes with gratitude, honor and memory. Only the truth will make us free, colleagues. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u12	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. We can start with: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROMOTIONS I recall that on Friday, the texts of Section IV and Articles 206 to 210 by importer, which become 207, 211 by report, respectively, have been reported, including. We are in a debate mode. A statement was made by Mr. Grozdan Karadzhov under art. 208. Here you are, Mr. Karadjov, you have the floor. You have a two-letter proposal. [[Reply from MP Grozdan Karadzhov.]] One of you made a statement. [[Reply from MP Grozdan Karadzhov.]] Under art. 208, yes. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 208, para. 1 and para. 2 the words "the watcher' shall be replaced by the word "the seer'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Here, unlike our previous discussions, there is already a political person who will answer a number of questions, unfortunately, too late. And it is too late because the vote on the law to promote corruption in public procurement is almost over and we have not received a political response to this: why would media, electronic media continue to be financed and the creation of programmes for them without the application of this Law? We will also not get a political answer to this: why, for example, should the Commission for Protection of Competition be turned over with the hatar outside and become a single body, rather than collective, as is the intention of the Constitution and of the Law for Protection of Competition, a collective regulator? I'll remind you that art. 206, on which I had the opportunity to speak, also raises the interesting question as to why case studies should be carried out by employees, provided that, for this purpose, all of us, the Members of the Commission for Protection of Competition vote on this. The employees are working in law with the President of the Commission. No matter how objectively they carry out their research, they are still on the payroll of this chairman, and apparently their appointment and dismissal depends on this man as well. This dependence will make the research of employees extremely non-executive. The commissioners are therefore elected by us to know that there are people when a particular case is being developed, a particular case, there will be a real person in charge, or as was previously called the rapporteur, in this case. Now, in practice, rapporteurs become employees, and for the convenience of the audience and to blindfold you, it is written that commissioners can be observers. Yes, monitoring the corruption actions of the President, of this sole ruler of corruption in public procurement. All these findings we made in the Law so far have received a clerical response. This clerical answer is that the directives, you see, oblige us to translate them word by word, mot-a-mo and introduce them into our law, no matter what zulus will become of them and what corruption will develop, and that in fact this Law, instead of achieving its goal It's not going to increase it, it's going to multiply it! We have no political response so far. And we don't, because the debate couldn't be held, Madam President, in front of a political person. You, as President of the National Assembly, as the first among equals, had to provide the person from the executive power, who is empowered here by us... the MPs, as Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, who will give us these political answers. So far, these political answers are missing. This is why in art. 8 We find again the so-called watcher member. Ladies and gentlemen, a monitoring member is like sitting in front of a waterfall of corruption that just watches him and there is no way and no power legally to stop him. Therefore, if there is political will, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, because I am certain [[the President signals that time has run out]] That you didn't even read it! [[Voices "Eee! " by GERB!]] And I'm sure you haven't read it because I know you. Your natural origin is from non-governmental organizations where people are extremely sensitive against corruption. [[Reply from President Tsetska Tsacheva.]] If Mr. Deputy Prime Minister had read the Law, he wouldn't have let him in this room! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u14	- What's the line? Mr. Bayraktarov, first line. Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Karadjov! Once again, you tried to get the debate back on track like it didn't end on Friday. In fact, it was, it is good that the Deputy Prime Minister is here today, but we had to get a first response to a few extremely important things that you did not pay attention to here in your speech. First of all: art. 13, para. 1, t. 5. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Karadjov! How will media with public resources be bought without holding a public procurement? Whose great mind has decided to introduce this text into the Law, something to which we have not received an answer to this day?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u16	Mr. Bayraktarov, I remind you that the debate is under art. Art. 206, Art. 210!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u17	Okay. I know exactly where the debate is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u18	Then respect it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u19	Don't interrupt me! I'll take 40 seconds of what you took from me. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u20	I'll give you a minute and forty, but by the lyrics.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u21	Okay. Thank you. From there, Mr. Karadjov, we must pass through art. 61 and 62 to the two second paragraphs and to get to today's debate, which deals with several texts from art. Article 206 to Art. 210, but which are linked in the first place to art. 200. How is it that some common sense, Mr. Karadjov, something that you didn't pay attention to, decided to avoid the random principle of distributing these complaints? Another point is that in addition to avoiding this random principle, which we are fighting for to be introduced into the judiciary and you know what scandals have arisen, on top of all this, the dependence of the experts' expertise and complaints, you see, should be checked by employees who are directly dependent on whether by service or by employment. That is to say, this servant, even in the Law, is clear that he will do what his superior has commanded him to do. There will be no verification, and the outcome of the complaint is known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u22	Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u23	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members, Mr. Karadjov! I don't agree with you continuing your manipulations and your suggestion. Unfortunately, for the second week we have been breaking parliamentary time to wonder how and in what way you can invent an interpretation that will subdue your pre-prepared thesis and your preconceptions. I appeal to you to introduce the Members of the National Assembly, and subsequently the media with the exact text you are commenting on. When it comes to two hypotheses in terms of distribution, you should also clearly specify that there is a line for two separate hypotheses because different rules apply, Mr. Karadjov. Then, when mentioning a commissioner who is monitoring the waterfall, as you say, the rules are for internal distribution in the Commission and they depend exactly on the Commission itself, as the Commission did. According to the second hypothesis, who to prepare, to start preparing the study, this is already about organization and internal administration of the organizational resource, that is, the study and the research expert, of course, will be determined according to competence. However, in the proposed version of an importer, the aim is precisely to have maximum transparency in the study phase, to have one or probably several Commissioners to control administration and expertise. I do not see in this double leadership the basis for your abducted and fictional statements. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I conclude with this, Madam President: please from now on any statement by colleagues Karadzhov and others under this bill to be accompanied respectively by a declaration under art. 143 of the Rules of the National Assembly. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u24	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u25	Third line? There's no third line. [[Heckling]] The Minister does not replicate, he takes attitude after the procedure is completed. A hole, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u26	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Kirilov! I don't know these rules so well, Mr. Kirilov. I'm addressing you. Can you tell me what kind of statement you want from me?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u27	A conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u28	Am I in conflict of interest under this Law?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u29	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u30	I declare that I have no conflict of interest under this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u31	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u32	In this regard, however, I declare that the Center for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption and Organized Crime has submitted a letter to Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Vice Prime Minister, indicating a number of opportunities for corruption and subjective decisions of contracting entities of any category under this Law. That is why I do not accept your accusations, Mr. Kirilov, that we are almost here referring to some political arguments. We are talking about specific articles and texts and we are talking about many such cases. I will quote you: there is no definition of the concept of a sub-contractor, which enables decisions to be taken subjectively by contracting entities; it creates an opportunity in the norm to determine subjective decisions by different contracting entities and thus influence the estimated value. We believe that an opportunity has been created which will lead to compensation and permitted legalisation of poor administrative management and omissions in public procurement planning. If I go to read to you those so-called substantial amendments to the Law, if you remember, which, here with colleagues, we were trying to draw your attention and drop out as an opportunity for the entities to assess what changes are essential, Mr. Kirilov, are these the things abducted? Or the opinion of the Commission, which prevents corruption and organised crime, because these gangs for robbing public procurement, which you further legitimize with this project, call them politics! I don't call them corruption, and I call them theft of public funds!? And this is the Law on Corruption and the theft of public funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u33	And they have their politics, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u34	He has the floor, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I want to apologize for my absence last week. A person can't be in two places at once, although quantum physics claims something else. Before we get to BORKOR and his position, let me make a few more comments. The first is related to a certain dose of misunderstanding why did you decide precisely on the Public Procurement Act to fight the big battle against corruption? Why? Sun Tzu had once said that the great warrior finds the battle that will make him great, and then participates in it and it makes him a great warrior. Only you've confused the battle, the tactics and the opponent. Before we get into the specifics, let me make one more point. I have extremely diverse experience related to public procurement and as a candidate ten years ago, and as a contracting entity, and as a reviewer. Yeah, I have experience as a monitoring expert. I also have experience in improving the entire control system. Dear colleagues, as a rule, the problem of the Public Procurement Act is not the Law but the failure to comply with the Law. Disobedience of the Law! This one, first. Secondly, it's a law, it's not a procedure, it's a manual. It will be followed by Rules of Procedure. There are a number of internal documents that at the level of detail will arrange his work. Do not expect all answers to the most detailed questions from a law that is by definition a framework. Separately, corruption does not fight ideological clichés or spells. My experience shows that corruption is fighting apart from good legislation and working institutions. In the not infinite time that I have, even retrospect, given my inability to participate in the debate last week, I will draw attention to some of the main reproaches that have been made. By the way, I have always welcomed the sharp debate in this House, let it even be emotional, but let it be with arguments. First, directives were transposed verbatimly and directly, and that was not mandatory. Guys, this isn't serious. Public procurement is one of the Community policies and therefore there is a reason. It is related to the common market. It suggests that everywhere, in each Member State, when a firm applies for a company, not only in its home country, but in others, there are the same rules to be followed. It is for this reason that, in this particular area, the implementation and transposition of the directives is mandatory. Yes, with attention to detail. There are several categories of case studies that are 100% mandatory for transposition, literally and verbatim, and those that allow a dose of interpretation, and we have literally complied with this possibility. I heard a comment about an illiterate or a bad translation of the directives. Colleagues, this is not serious and slightly offensive. The directives are not translated for one simple reason. They come out in Bulgarian, which is an official language of the European Union as a Member State. So this comment probably does not need further analysis and clarification. The officials had signed the Law voluntarily without any control. This Law has been written for 6 months by a working group involving more than 40 experts, practically from all departments. He went to public discussion, received more than 700 proposals not only from ministries, from agencies, but from all the participants in the process, associations of municipalities, professional chambers, and we have made it possible for those of them who are reasonable and good to be put into the Law. Forgive me, after such a long period of preparation, after looking at committees, it is seen at first reading, it is difficult for me to understand this emotional hysteria at the last moment in terms of the texts of the Law. Let's get into the anti-corruption theme a little bit. Preliminary market surveys were a corruption enterprise defined as: "Hello, corruption! " This is an extremely strange and illogical interpretation of the texts of the Law for a simple reason These studies not only come to the use of expertise, consultations by engineers, by lawyers, it has come to the point that external experts have sometimes done the paperwork. I don't understand, after we've regulated the process, who's been informal so far, we're opening a door to corruption?! And here is my favorite award in the case of extremely urgent practice, which is now being introduced and opens the doors for abuse. It's very strange to see new things where they're not there. I'll start there. Of course, the extreme urgency arises from texts in the directives and is not national fiction, and it has also been applied since 2006. Besides that. Do you know how many cases we have in 2015 for accelerated procedures? In total, 11 thousand public contracts were awarded for 2015. Do you know how many of them are accelerated? Seven out of eleven thousand, and the reason is very easy to understand. In the hypothesis, it is much easier for contracting entities to organise a negotiated procedure that is not competitive and not so transparent. How can a corrupt public procedure be, given that without this opportunity you are going directly to negotiation, where publicity is reduced? And the most interesting one, the one declared by some for corruption text, is actually anti-corruption, and the one announced by others new approach actually turns out to exist for about ten years. The removal of prerequisites for non-compliance. The removal of prerequisites for non-compliance has been assessed and commented as a possible corruption risk, which is, of course, an absolute misunderstanding. To return to the procedure a candidate or participant for whom there have been grounds for exclusion, but they have been removed cannot be corruption! Colleagues, I've read more audit reports than a literature teacher, verses. Corruption in public procurement comes not from greater competition, not from the admission of more participants! Corruption comes from the removal and malicious contracting entities are using this technique, namely the uncomfortable candidates, those who generate real competition that would give better conditions, including a better price, to be removed prematurely. Failure to release, removal generates corruption. As regards the proposal, all optional exclusion rules should become binding and new grounds should be added, such as the violation of civil and political freedoms. I am giving you a specific example of the requirement that the company is not in bankruptcy. If you have a single supplier of drinking water, only it is bankrupt, how exactly will you provide water if this norm is listed as imperative and applied to any order? One particular example, and there are others, regarding the proposal to place the selection criteria mandatory by each contracting entity for each order as described in the Law. Yes, you can oblige contracting entities to always use all the criteria, but this is illogical, to a large extent it is not necessary and does not correspond to the approach to seek to reduce the administrative burden. For example, why would you want turnover or liquidity if you were making a subscription order for newspapers, for example? Or: why do you need a list of contracts or persons exercising control in the procedure for the delivery of tomatoes? Isn't it, among other things, that we have to keep tabs on the chances of small and medium-sized businesses and on the administrative burden of reducing which is an undisputed priority? With regard to the opinion of BORKOR. When it's read, it's good to read to the end. There is indeed a long comment received, an opinion from BORKOR. Much of the questions they have raised are resolved with the necessary level of detail from the Rules of Application of the Law. However, what is the general opinion of BORKOR? Why, when the question is raised and when passages are drawn from the report, is not read what the general opinion is? You don't have to look for him, I'll supply you with him. The project contains a number of novelties that enhance the quality of the legal act. The proposed norms comply with relevant European legislation and alleviate, accelerate and optimize the procurement process. Administrative formalism has also been significantly reduced, which makes the procurement process more transparent and more understandable. In view of the above, we support the positive changes proposed, moreover, that these are largely in line with the proposals made by BORKOR in our report. With regard to all comments and proposals that have been made in relation to the functioning of the KPC. They sound good. However, one very important detail is missed. The first, pό insignificant, is that we assume that the expertise of all members of the KPC is not universal because the KPC does not concern itself, as a first instance, only with the appeal of public procurement. In this sense an accidental distribution could give a defect, but this is not the most important. The decisions, unlike the court where they are taken by the judge, shall be taken by the entire composition of the Commission. In this sense, the random distribution does not make much sense and is largely pointless. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] Last comment in my attempt to be brief about the procedure for direct purchase of air time. By the way, it is appropriate to clarify that when you comment on the new Law, you should also consider the old one, where such an opportunity exists. Such an opportunity exists in both the old and the new directive. We have used the text of the directive, designing the domestic legislation. The legislation at European level meant that the electronic media, unlike all other "printed" and so on, function in the hypothesis of a limited market. In order to have an air media with national coverage, it is necessary to go through many modes, including licensing and so on. The market is essentially not free and is not liberal here, therefore it is considered that in many cases the direct competitive procedure is not the most appropriate mechanism to assign only the purchase of air time. The production, production of transmission and whatever else is already a service and it would be right to be a procedure under the Public Procurement Act. Finally, in the late 1990s, the late Alexander Bozhkov had written an article in a journal entitled Democratic Review, which said why the state should not fight corruption. In it he developed the version that the efforts of the state to fight corruption led to new corruption. And then I was, and now I'm very disagreeable with him. Honourable Members, let us, with the debate in this House, make sure that we convince everyone otherwise. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u36	There's a word for a statement, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u37	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The formal reason to take the floor on these members we are considering are the proposals of the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs who have been systematically rejected and I strongly support. They are rejected systematically because they are logical and consistent exposure to another philosophy rejected by the majority. And it is the rejection of this other philosophy that warrants colleagues who spoke before me to make serious qualifications for the Law that it is corrupt. I asked to take the floor right after the Deputy Prime Minister, because you can't ignore the statement you started and the statement you ended with. He wonders why in this Law you have taken up fighting corruption, and the subtext is: why don't you leave this work for the next Law which Mrs. Kuneva is preparing so hard to fight corruption?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u38	She's going to do the education now!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u39	I take that joke. Inappropriate... [[Replications from the MPs Hamid Hamid and Tuncher Kardzhaliev.]] Pretences... [[Executive lines from the MPs Hamid Hamid Hamid and Tuncher Kardzhaliev.]] Question, but he received an answer with the ambiguity.....the deputy prime minister is gone, the presence of two opposing ones and disagreement with Mr. Alexander Bozhkov, rest his soul, and consent with him. It's this dualism in the quantum area he started talking about at the beginning. What's my opinion? My opinion is that the law is corrupt. The law makes the President, as the speakers before me said, a single and sole body and thus the Commission for Protection of Competition ceases to be a collective and a sole body. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as this Law is passed, a new political trustee of the Commission for Protection of Competition will be elected to materialise the corrupt potential of this Law, and you will be witnesses and participants in this management act, if not in the coming weeks, in the coming months. Members eliminated. The President becomes the most informed person in Bulgaria for the guarantor, performer, patron and recipient of the corrupt remuneration. With this Law, the President of the Commission for Protection of Competition becomes dispatcher of the authorized by law and the corruption conducted by the authorities in Bulgaria. All the talk of Mr. Deputy Prime Minister was inconclusive and unacceptable. I'm moving on to his joke that fighting corruption leads to new corruption. Remember this sentence of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen! You had trouble with the Corruption Act. First of all, you rejected it because you didn't accept anonymous information. Secondly, because you could not understand how the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau will be elected. Mr. Donchev hinted. Don't take it as a joke! This authority, the head of the Anti-Corruption Office in Bulgaria, the new chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition, is best to make him the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. [[Noise and lines.]] Don't be so quick to raise your hand! Listen to me till the end! So, this guy who knows who the guarantor is, who's gonna be the contractor to go to him, who's the patron of this trial, and where they're going, there won't be any need, colleagues, anonymous signals. He knows everything. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Knowing everything, and you know that he knows that he knows what you're doing. [[noise and lines]] You will sustain the majority because this man will know what power and those who support it. This will be the safest way to sustain the majority, with the fight against corruption leading to new corruption, as the Deputy Prime Minister said, and building on this basis the power in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u40	Time has stopped, Mr. Bojinov, but you've delayed it anyway. A line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bojinov, I will not object to all your arguments, only to what is right and contrary to law. The competition law was adopted in 2008. Since then, according to art. 9, the President of the Commission shall represent the Commission or empower persons to represent it; organise and manage the Commission's activities; schedule and manage the Commission's meetings; approve the establishment plan; conclude, amend and terminate employment contracts; organise and implement the Commission's decisions; validate the Commission's acts; implement the budget and so on without reaching the international commitments under a conventional regime of the President of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Mr. Bojinov, the powers of the so-called one-person chairman of the collective body, they are not future, they are active. If there's any mistake in the deputy prime minister, it's that he's in line with the current text, which he's bound to do. It is required to comply with the Law on Protection of Competition, because also on Protection of Competition we comply with mandatory instructions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u42	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Bojinov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Kirilov, I am pleased to accept your agreement with much of my speech, and with regard to the disagreements and the arguments you have put forward, it is true that it has been recorded so far. It is true that this is how the Commission's activities have been regulated. It is true that more than 90% of public funds pass through public procurement. But it is true that as a result of this practice Bulgaria is at the bottom of the negative practices of corruption. The question is: Do you want to confirm and regulate it to benefit from the new power, or do you want to deny it and ban it by law? That's the dilemma. You also add one more rule to it to determine which of the members of the Commission and not with lots, that is to say you confirm the negative practice and that is the basis for my protest, for my alternative proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I shall put to the vote a proposal under art. 206 by importer made by the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 99 MPs: 30, against 13, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. On the same article, we have a proposal made by MP Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 107 MPs: 30, against 35, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs under art. 207 by importer not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 103 MPs: 32, against 18, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal of the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs under art. 208 by importer not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 28 against 17, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. On the same article, we have a proposal made by Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 99 MPs: 28 against 34, 37 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. And another proposal under art. 208 by importer from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev, which is also not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 99 MPs: 18, against 47, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs, according to art. 209 by importer. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: 35 against 20, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Finally, a proposal on the texts reported by the rapporteur under art. 210 by importer, of the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 102 MPs: 33, against 13, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of Section IV by importer, supported by the Commission, as well as members from 206 to 210, including by importer, who, following support and appropriate amendment by the Commission, become members from 207 to 211 including in its report. We vote on the name of Section IV and Articles 207 to 211 on the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: 83, against 12, abstention 13. The name of Section IV and Articles 207 to 211, including the Commission report, have been adopted. Mr. Kirilov, please report to Art. 211 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, art. 211 by importer has the name of the applicant's Rules of Procedure. Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: Art. 211 is amended as follows: Art. 211. (1) The Supreme Administrative Court shall rule on the appeal within one month of the opening of the public procurement proceedings for a value under art. 20, para. 1 and, in other cases, within 15 days of the initiation of the proceedings. (2) The decision together with the reasons shall be drawn up and published on the website of the court at the latest within 7 days of the decision on the complaint. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 211, which becomes Art. 212. Article 212, by importer, is the name of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: "Article 212' is amended as follows: 1. In the title of art. The Court of Justice is hereby replaced by the following.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Article 212, para. 1 is amended as the "Competition Protection Officer' is replaced by the "High Administrative Court' and accepts the following version: Art. 212. (1) The Supreme Administrative Court shall, by order, terminate the proceedings. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 212, which becomes art. 213, as in para. 2 words.............................................................................. 203, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 204, para. Five o'clock. Article 213 by importer shall have the name of the Subsidical Application. Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: Art. 213 acquires the following version: Art. 213. For all outstanding issues concerning the appeal procedure before a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court, the order for appeal of individual administrative acts under Section I, Chapter 10 of the Administrative Procedure Code shall apply. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 213, which becomes art. 214.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u46	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs, according to art. 211 by importer not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 92 MPs: 33, against 14, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs, according to art. 212 by importer. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 75 MPs: 15 against 11, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs, according to art. 213 by importer. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: 20, against 13, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote articles 211 to 213, including by importer, which are supported by the Commission and, after its amendment, become members from 212 to 214 in its report. We are voting from 212 to 214 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 81 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 5. Articles 212 to 214 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u47	The Commission's decisions on the protection of competition and the protection of the interests of the Member States of the Commission of the European Union and of the Commission of Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: In the title of Section V, the Protection of Competition is replaced by the Court of Justice. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u48	Statements? There are no speeches. Do you want a procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose a roll call procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u50	There's nothing left for me but to give me the list. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - here Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - absent Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - absent Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - here Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here We have a quorum, we can proceed. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov for the name of Section V, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 75 MPs: 18, against 10, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Section V, supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 78, against 2, abstention 13. The name of Section V of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u51	Article 214 by importer shall have the name of Under art. 214 has a proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 214 the following amendments are made: 1. Al. 1 is removed. 2. Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 respectively become paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, respectively, as the Competition Protection Commission is replaced by the Supreme Administrative Court. 3. Al. 9 is removed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 214, which becomes art. 215: "Definition of decisions" Art. 215. (1) The Commission for the Protection of Competition shall take decisions and determine the designated by a clear vote and by a majority of 4 votes. (2) The Commission for Protection of Competition at an indoor meeting shall lay down a decision by which: 1. leaves the complaint without respect; 2. revokes the unlawful decision to initiate a procurement procedure; 3. revoke the decision and return the file for the continuation of the procurement procedure from the last lawful decision or action or for the termination of the procedure; 4. establish the unlawfulness of the decision and impose the penalties provided for under para. 5 and 6; 5. declare the contracting authority's decision null and void; 6. revoke the unlawful act or establish unlawful inaction and return the file for the continuation of the procurement procedure from the last lawful decision or action or for the termination of the procedure; 7. revoke the decision when it finds that the contract has been concluded in violation of Article 7. 112, para. 6 or 8 and when it finds a breach of the law affecting the possibility of the person making the complaint to participate in the procedure or to be designated as a contractor. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 3 and 6 The Commission for Protection of Competition may issue binding instructions under the procurement procedure. (4) When the contracting entity enters into a contract before or during the proceedings, it shall immediately notify the Commission of the protection of competition by sending a copy of the contract. (5) The Commission for the Protection of Competition shall establish the unlawfulness of the decision and impose a penalty of up to 10 per cent of the value of the contract concluded when it has granted prior execution, but when the decision is given it shall find a breach of the law affecting the possibility of the person who lodged the complaint to participate in the procedure or to be appointed as contractor. (6) When the contract has been concluded in violation of art. 112, para. 6 or 8 but no infringement of the law affecting the possibility of the person making the complaint to participate in the procedure or to be designated as a contractor, the Commission for Protection of Competition imposes a sanction of three per cent of the value of the contract concluded. (7) In the cases under para. 5 and 6, where the value of the contracts is not specified in them, the specific amount of the penalty shall be imposed by the Commission for Protection of Competition on the basis of an assigned expertise on the expected value of the contract concluded. When appointing experts, the costs of the expert's remuneration shall be paid by the contracting authority. (8) The Commission decision on the protection of competition shall be written and shall contain: 1. date, place of issue and number; 2. the factual and legal grounds for granting it; 3. the decision to be appealed and the name of the authority which issued it; 4. the names and names of the parties respectively; 5. what is decreed; 6. burden to whom the costs are awarded; 7. to which authority and within what time limit the decision may be appealed. Article 215 by importer shall have the name of the Appeal of the Commission's decisions on the protection of competition before the Supreme Administrative Court. There is a proposal from Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 215 the following amendments shall be made: 1. The title of art. 215 accepts the following version: 2. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The decision of a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court shall be subject to a cassation appeal before a five-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court within 14 days of its notification to the Parties. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev in art. 215, para. 2 the words "three days' shall be replaced by "three working days'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 215, which becomes 216.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u52	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u53	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, in art. 215, as amended by the Commission. 1 is written: the competition authority takes decisions and gives the definitions by a clear vote by a four-vote majority. My question is: isn't a majority of five votes a majority? Why should it be fixed to exactly four votes, given that these four votes are an even number? What would happen if two of these voted against, or with a particular opinion, and two voted for, the defined definition or decision? Next, the entire bill gives the Commission the power to protect competition as a first instance. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 203, slightly further back in the same Law, it is stated that the Commission's definitions are appealed by a private complaint. It is further stated that the cases which have not been settled in this Law are subject to subsidiary APCs, and the APC states that a subsidiary BPC is also applicable. Only in art. 274 of the Civil Procedure Code it is stated that a private appeal is subject to the definitions that block the further development of the case. So far, everything is great, only the difference with the appeal in court and what you have recorded here is that there the composition is at random and not indicated by a Commissioner to monitor and take opinions on the particular case. Next, in art. 215, para. 2 It is well written that the time limit for the removal of irregularities in the complaint lodged before the Supreme Administrative Court is three days from receipt of the communication. It is strange why you have correctly written here from receipt and a little further in the same Law, as the legal relevant moment is recorded by sending the invitation or sending the notice to run a 30-day period. The internal contradictions of this Law are fracking. That is why I call again for these articles to be corrected.. we have already voted them, but further in the Law there are also such inaccuracies leading only... because the Minister here also talked about the end of corruption....................................................................................... Small companies will not participate when a legally relevant moment is the sending of the invitation or the sending of the notice and not their knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Popov! A line mainly and only for the sake of correctness. In accordance with art. 4 of the Competition Act, the Commission shall consist of seven members, including a Chair. That is, the indication of the majority of four members makes sense and meaning that these four members are the majority, that is, decisions are made by majority. With regard to your other note, which concerns the time limits and the call, the reference is made public, and the time limit is not three days, but, as you yourself pointed out, thirty days. With regard to the partition, I do not fully support your arguments for random selection. These are Commission decisions as a collective body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u56	Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Popov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u57	I agree that the majority should be of four people in a seven-member committee, but this is how the majority is recorded. It's misspelled. It should be fifty plus one or not less than four, which is the same thing. That's how you fix it to four people. Could be five, could be six, could be seven. That's in terms of the first line. As regards the sending of the invitation or the sending of the request for the various recipients, it will run from a different period because it depends on when the invitation was sent and depends on when the notice was sent and not when the recipient received the invitation or found out about the notice. By presumption, it should have understood from the date of the notice or from the date of receipt of the invitation and not from the dispatch. Sending is a process until the invitation is sent hypothetically, until it arrives, it may not arrive, it may not be sent to the right address, but it starts to run for 30 days. Respectfully, until he receives the invitation, the 30 - day period can be ten days, for this invitation can travel twenty days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I put to the vote a proposal from the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs under art. 214 by importer not supported by the Commission. They voted 87 MPs: 21, Against 17, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal from the MP Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs under art. 215 by importer not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 15 against 20, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Kadiev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 17 against 38, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote Articles 214 and 215 by importer, which shall be supported by the Commission; art. 215 was edited by it, and found a place in its report as art. Art. 215, Art. 216. Vote art. Art. 215, Art. 216 on the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: 71, against 10, abstention 5. Article 215 and Article 215 216 accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u59	"Division VI" "Distributions." Indemnifications. In this case, the Commission The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI. Article 216 by importer with the name of "Distinguish'. Proposal by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs in art. 216 all over the Court of Justice is replaced by the Supreme Administrative Court. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 216, which becomes art. 217. Article 217 by importer with the name of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 217, which becomes Art. 218. Article 218 by importer with the name of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 218, which becomes art. 219, and in it the words.............................................................................................. 214, para. 5 and 6 and 6 shall be replaced by the following: 215, para. Five and six. Article 219 by importer with the name of the State Fees. Proposal by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs in art. Paragraph 219. 1 is amended as follows: For the proceedings under this Chapter, state fees and expenses are due to the Supreme Administrative Court. The state fees shall be determined by a tariff approved by the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 219, which becomes Article 219, shall be replaced by the following: 220.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u60	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs for art. 216 by importer not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 15 against 19, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs for art. 219 by importer not supported by the Commission. They voted 82 MPs: 19 against 12, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer on the name of Section VI, Articles 216, 217 and 219, which shall be supported by the Commission, as well as art. In parallel, supported by the Commission and edited by the same. The same members find their place in the report as members from 217 to 220 inclusive. We are voting on the name of Section VI, as well as Articles 217 to 220 on the Commission report. Vote 79 MPs: 70 against 1, abstention 8. The name of Section VI and Articles 217 to 220 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u61	"Chapter twenty-something": "Instructions established by the European Commission." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Twenty-Seven, which becomes Chapter Twenty-eighth. Article 220 by importer with the name of the institution for the identification and removal of the debtors. Proposal by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs in art. 220, para. 6, p. 1 "Competition Protection' is replaced by "the Court'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 220, which becomes art. 221: ? Order for the identification and removal of infringements Art. 221. (1) The Permanent Representation of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union shall forward on the day of receipt or at the latest on the following working day to the administration of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and the Public Procurement Agency the notification received by the European Commission of any infringement of the contracting entities established by it in the course of a procedure pending the conclusion of the contract for the award of a contract. (2) The Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency shall send the notification under para. 1 to the relevant contracting entity, which shall provide a response within 5 days of receipt. (3) With the answer under para. 2 the contracting entity shall notify the Public Procurement Agency and apply the relevant evidence where: 1. accept as justified the claims of the European Commission and remedy the infringement; or 2. the infringement referred to in the notification is already subject to appeal. (4) Outside the cases under para. 3 where the contracting authority finds that there is no infringement, it shall send a reasoned opinion to the Public Procurement Agency and shall apply evidence. (5) The contracting authority shall suspend any action relating to the conduct of the procedure or the conclusion of a contract from the moment of receipt of the notification under para. 1 until the final settlement of the dispute. (6) In the cases under para. 4 the Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency within 10 days of receipt of the reasoned opinion: 1. lodge a complaint with the Commission for Protection of Competition where the infringement referred to in the notification under para. 1 is the result of an act of the contracting entity; 2. shall refer to the competent State authority where the infringement arises from the application of a regulatory act which is not in accordance with European Union law. (7) The authority under para. 6, p. 2 shall, within 5 days, notify the Public Procurement Agency with a reasoned opinion and indicate appropriate measures where it provides for such measures. (8) The Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency shall draw up a reply to the European Commission containing: 1. confirmation that the infringement has been removed in the cases under para. 3, p. 1; 2. information on the existence of appeal proceedings against the infringement in the cases under para. 3, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. information about the measures taken in the cases under para. 6, p. 1 and para. 7. (9) The answer under para. 8 with the evidence attached to it shall be sent to the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union, the administration of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the Ministry of Finance within 17 days of receipt of the notification under para. 1. (10) The Permanent Representation of the Republic of Bulgaria to the European Union shall provide the European Commission with the answer under para. 8 no later than the expiry of 21 days from the date of receipt of the notification under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Article 221 by importer with the name of Proposal by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs in art. 221, para. 1, t. 1 "Competition Protection' is replaced by "the Court'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 221, which becomes Art. 222, as in para. 1, t. 1 words.............................................................................. 220, para. 3, p. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 221, para. 3, p. In para 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 words.............................................................................. 220, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 221, para. Mr. Chairman, I am also making an editorial proposal in art. 221, which becomes Art. 222, para. 1, t. 2 words.............................................................................. For the purpose of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: OJ L 248, 16.9.2002, p. [[The reporter shall submit the proposal to the President.]] Article 222 by importer with the name The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 222, which becomes art. 223, and in it the words.............................................................................................. 220 and 221 221 and 222.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u62	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov for art. 220, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 16 against 18 abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs for art. 221 by importer. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: 15 against 16, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Danail Kirilov on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, namely: 221 by importer, in para. 1, t. 2 words.............................................................................. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 221 (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No Vote 80 MPs: 73, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Twenty-Seven by importer, Articles 220, 221, 222 by importer, as in art. 221 we have already accepted a proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Danail Kirilov. We are voting Chapter Twenty-Seven by importer, as well as Articles 221 to 223 by Commission report, as in art. 222 we already have an editorial proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. Please vote. Vote 84 MPs: 70 against 2, abstention 12. Chapter 27 and Articles 221 to 223, including the Commission's report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u63	"Chapter twenty-eighths" Destroying contracts or agreements. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Twenty-eighth, which becomes Chapter Twenty-ninth. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 223 by importer with the name of the Member of the National Assembly, there is a proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of Members of the National Assembly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 223, para. 2, p. 1 "Competition Protection' is replaced by "the Court'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 223, which becomes Art. 224, as in para. 2, p. 1 words.............................................................................. 214, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 215, para. Five o'clock. Dear Mr President, and under this provision, I am making an editorial proposal to correct the accuracy of the references: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the 1. in t. 1 words.............................................................................. 119, p. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 119, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 2. in t. 2 words.............................................................................. 119, p. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 3. ct. 3 words.............................................................................. 119, p. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 119, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 224 The term and order which becomes art. 225. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 225 "Consequences" which becomes art. 226.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u64	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov under art. 223 by importer not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 72 MPs: 12, against 16, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Tribune by the MP Danail Kirilov, as it was read. Vote 79 MPs: 73, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the name of Chapter Twenty-eighth by importer, members 223 to 225 by importer are all supported by the Commission, in art. 223 we have a newly accepted proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov. We are voting on Chapter Twenty-eighths and Articles 224 on the Commission's report to 226 including, under art. 224 we have a proposal made and accepted by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: 69 against 6, abstention 4. Chapter 20 and Articles 224 to 226, including the Commission's report, have been adopted. It's 13:30. I'm calling a half-hour break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u65	We shall proceed with the plenary sitting. Part seven, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Management and Control." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part Seven. Head of the Twenty-nineth Offices. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Twenty-nine, which becomes Chapter Thirty. Article 226 "Introduction of state policy in the field of public procurement'. Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 226 words to be replaced by the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 226, which becomes Art. 227. Article 227 "Agency of public procurement'. Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission may, by way of derogation from Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 227, which becomes Art. 228. Article 228 "The power of the agency'. Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 228, para. 1, t. 11 and so on. The Court of Justice is hereby replaced by the Court of Justice of the European Union by the Court of Justice of the European Union, and the Court of Justice of the European Union, and the The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Desislava Atanasova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 228, which becomes art. 229: The power of the Agency shall be exercised in accordance with the Art. 229. (1) The Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency shall: 1. develop draft legislation in the field of public procurement; 2. provide methodological assistance to contracting entities related to the application of the law by: (a) issuing general methodological guidance based on monitoring and aggregation of practice; (b) making observations on requests to contracting entities; (c) direct consultations. 3. promote good practices in procurement, including related to the implementation of environmental, social, innovative requirements and others; 4. organise and manage the process of preparing, preparing and publishing standardised requirements and documents; 5. exercise control by random selection of procurement procedures; 6. control of negotiated procedures under art. 18, para. 1, t. 8 and 9; 7. exercise control over contracts awarded on grounds of exceptions from the scope of the law; 8. exercise control over amendments to public procurement contracts on the basis of art. 116, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 9. shall refer to the competent authorities for the exercise of ex post control of compliance with the law; 10. appeal before the Commission for Protection of Competition the decisions of contracting entities with which infringements have been committed in the conduct of a procurement procedure established by the European Commission until the conclusion of the contract and specified in the notification under art. 221, para. 1; 11. maintain and manage a single centralised platform for the award of electronic procurement and public procurement; 12. develop and validate documents and rules for the use of the centralised platform; 13. provides technical opportunities for use in the platform under point 13. 11 models of documents relating to procurement; 14. monitor public procurement on the basis of the information published in the ROC and by collecting and generalising the practice of implementing the law; 15. issue a monthly newsletter with indicators that characterize the main elements of the public procurement market; 16. maintain lists of contracting entities under the law and inform the European Commission of changes to the lists; 17. establish, maintain and update a list of external experts with professional competence relating to the items of public procurement that contracting entities may use in the preparation and conduct of procurement procedures; 18. maintain and update a list under Article 18. 57, para. 4; 19. cooperate in the field of public procurement with other bodies, as well as with branch and other organisations; 20. provide summary information from the Public Procurement Agency via the website of the Public Procurement Agency; 21. participate in the international cooperation of the Republic of Bulgaria with organizations in the field of public procurement from other countries; 22. direct the activities of the Methodical Board for Coordination of Control Activities; 23. cooperate with the European Commission, including sending information to it relating to: (a) the cases of application of art. 13, para. 1, t. 1 as well as under Art. 13, para. 1, t. 13 point (b) when requested by the European Commission; (b) legal or factual problems in the participation of Bulgarian persons in procedures for the award of public service contracts in third countries; (c) legal or factual problems in the participation of Bulgarian persons in procurement procedures in third countries due to non-compliance with the provisions of international labour law. 24. draw up and send to the European Commission annual statistical reports, as well as the definitions of pre-execution under art. 205, para. 3 and related decisions under art. 215, para. 5 of the Commission for Protection of Competition; 25. maintain and update the information collected and stored in the electronic database of the European Commission (e-Certis) established by the European Commission; upon request provide other Member States with clarification of the information in e-Certis; 26. Upon request provide other Member States with information related to the application of art. 48, 51, 52, 54 "59," art. 64, para. Art. 3, Art. 7, Art. 72, para. 7); 27. present to the Minister of Finance an annual report on the activities of the Agency. (2) With the control of para. 1, t. 5 s 8 provides methodological aid for the legality of the award of public contracts. (3) The Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency shall have the right to request from contracting entities and from competent authorities or persons the necessary information relating to the exercise of its powers under this law, including in relation to the preparation of the standardised requirements and documents under para. 1, t. 4. (4) The persons shall comply with the request under para. 3 within the time limit and in the manner defined by the Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency. (5) The models of decisions under art. 22, para. 1, t. 1 and 2, notices to be sent to ROC, including under art. 29, para. 2, and the information referred to in Article 2. 230, para. 4 shall be endorsed by the Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency. (6) The website of the Public Procurement Agency shall be published: 1. the information under para. 1, t. 2 (a), (b), (c), (d), (d), (e), (e), (e), (e), (f), (f), (f), (g), (g) and (f), 16, 17 and 18 and the newsletter under para. 1, t. 15; 2. the established specimens under para. 5; 3. the general terminological dictionary; 4. other information defined by the Rules of Law Enforcement. (7) State experts of the Public Procurement Agency involved in the conduct of public procurement policies must have an educational and qualification degree. (8) The arrangements for the issuance of standardised requirements and documents under para. 1, t. 4 and for the establishment and maintenance of the list under para. 1, t. 17 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. Article 229 "Securities of the entities'. Proposal by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 229, which becomes art. 230, as in para. 1, t. 1 words................................................................................. The following are replaced by the following: 13 (b) and 13 (c) (c) 6 words................................................................................. 54, para. 1, t. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes in Chapter 30 to create a new art. 231: supplied to apply standardised requirements and documents Art. 231. (1) Contracting entities shall apply the standardised requirements and documents referred to in Article. 229, para. 1, t. 4. (2) Contracting entities may not apply para. 1 where this results from the nature of the contract but are obliged to state written reasons which apply to the file referred to in art. 121.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u67	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Grozdan Karadjov under Article. 226 by importer not supported by the Commission. Vote 72 MPs: 4 against 17, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Grozdan Karadjov for art. 227 by importer not supported by the Commission. 70 MPs voted: 11 against 15, 44 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote a proposal made under art. 228 by importer from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 15 against 13, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the name of Part-Supposed "Management and Control". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part Seven. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: 69 against 6, abstention 3. The name of Part Seven is adopted on the Commission report. I vote on the name of Chapter 29, Articles 226-229 by importer, which are supported by the Commission, edited by the same and found place in its report as members of 227-230 including, as well as the creation of a new art. 231, according to the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 71, against 3, abstention 4. Chapter 29 and Articles 227-231 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u68	..Chapter 30....control. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 30, which becomes Chapter 30 first. Section I - External control carried out by the Public Procurement Agency. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. Art. 230. Prior control of orders financed by funds provided through European funds and programmes. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs: It's a random choice. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 230, which becomes 232: A random choice is what you're talking about. Art. 232. (1) Random control shall be carried out on the procedures to be published in the Public Procurement Register, with the exception of those carried out in accordance with art. 148-175, or covered by the control under art. 229, para. 1, t. 6. (2) The procedures under para. 1 shall be determined by random selection using a methodology that takes into account the level of risk. (3) The control under para. 1 takes place in two stages: 1. prior to the initiation of the procedure, the opening of the draft decision, notice, technical specifications, and where the award criterion is not the lowest price, the draft assessment methodology; 2. after disclosure of the initiation of the procedure, the decision and the notice published in the Procurement Register, the evaluation methodology and the technical specifications. (4) The control of the technical specifications shall cover verification in respect of compliance with the requirements of art. 49, para. 2 as well as compliance with established type-approval specifications, where applicable. (5) When the opening of the procedure shall be made public by prior notice, the control under para. 1 shall also cover the invitation to confirm interest before and after its dispatch to the persons who have expressed interest. (6) The control under para. 1 ends after the implementation of the stage under para. 3, p. 1 for procedures where the time limit for receipt of requests for participation and/or tenders is reduced: Article 1 74, para. Art. 2 or art. 133, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. due to the need for urgent award under art. 74, para. Art. 4, Art. 75, para. 5, 133, para. Art. 4, Art. Art. 134, para. 3, art. 135, para. Art. 3, Art. Paragraph 136. Art. 3, Art. 137, para. Art. 4 and art. 178, para. 3. (7) In the event that the contracting authority fails to comply with the recommendations in the opinion of the first stage of ex ante control, at the same time as the sending for publication in the Procurement Register of the opening decision and the notice announcing the initiation of the procedure, it may send written reasons to the Procurement Agency. (8) The Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency may appoint observers to follow up on the work of the Committee on Art. 103 when the control under para. 1 assess the risk of error and infringement as significant. (9) Where the contracting entity does not take into account the findings of the ex ante control carried out under para. 1, it shall apply written reasons to the file referred to in Article 1. 121. (10) The Public Procurement Agency shall forward the opinion on the results of the second phase of control of the Court of Auditors and the State Financial Inspection Agency. (11) The conditions and procedures for carrying out the ex ante control under para. 1 shall be determined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. Proposed by the order of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Art. 230, which becomes Art. 230. 232, as amended by the Commission, in para. 6, p. 2 words.............................................................................. 75, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 75, para. 7 (c) and 7 (c) shall be added after them. 76, para. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No ??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? 231. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs: ?......?.................................................................................................. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 231, which becomes 233: ?................................................................................. Art. 233. (1) The Public Procurement Agency shall exercise control under art. 229, para. 1, t. 6 on negotiated procedures opened by public and sectoral contracting entities on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1, t. Art. 3, 4, 6, 9 and 10 and art. 182, para. 1, t. 1, 4 and 5. (2) The control under para. 1 covers: 1. procurement procedures whose values are equal to or greater than: (a) 5 million lv. supposed for construction; (b) the value threshold under art. 20, para. 1, t. 1 letter (s) (b) and (c), i.e. 2 letters (b) and (c) 3 letters (b) and (c) 2. procurement procedures whose values are below the thresholds under point 2. 1 determined by random choice according to the methodology under art. Pursuant to Article 2 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, any aid granted by a Member State or through State resources in accordance with Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be compatible with the internal market within the (3) The control under para. 1 shall include a verification of compliance of that legal basis with the reasons in the opening decision and the evidence submitted by the contracting authority and shall be carried out after publication of the decision initiating the procedure in the ROP. (4) The Public Procurement Agency shall draw up an opinion on the results of the control to be published in the Public Procurement Office. (5) The conditions and procedures for carrying out the control under para. 1 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. Article 232?............................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 232 to be rejected: Art. 232. (1) Control under art. 228, para. 1, t. 7 shall be conducted for the legality of procurement procedures for public contracting entities not covered by other types of ex ante control under this Law. The opening decision and the announcement of the initiation of the procedure following their publication in the ROC shall be subject to verification. (2) The control under para. 1 shall be carried out on the basis of a random selection methodology in such a way as to enable the control sample to fall into any announced procedure at a value greater than: 1. £270,000. supposed for construction; 2. £70,000. For supplies and services. (3) The control sample shall cover 5 percent of the published procedures under para. 2 but not more than 3 procedures per day. The control sample shall not include defence and security contracts, contracts awarded under art. 79, para. 1, t. 1, 2, 7 and 8, and contracts where the time limit for receipt of requests for participation and/or tenders is reduced under art. 74, para. 2, or because of the need for urgent award. (4) In the methodology under para. 2 criteria may be included on the basis of which the sets of procedures are weighed with different weights by criteria: object, value or level of risk. (5) For the control under para. 1 The Public Procurement Agency shall deliver an opinion on the legality to be published in the Public Procurement Office. In the event that the contracting authority does not comply with the opinion, it shall apply written reasons to the procurement file. (6) The conditions and procedures for carrying out the control under para. 1 shall be governed by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 233, which becomes Art. 234: .................................................................................................. the scope of the law Art. 234. (1) Control under art. 229, para. 1, t. 7 covers the application of the exceptions under art. 14, para. 1, t. 5-8 in the case of award by public contracting entities of contracts whose value is equal to or higher than the value thresholds under art. 20, para. 1, t. 1 and 2. (2) In order to carry out the control, the contracting authority shall, before concluding the contract, send reasons for the reasons which require the application of the exemption. (3) With the control of para. 1 check the compliance of that plea with the reasons and evidence provided by the contracting authority. (4) For the control under para. 1 The Public Procurement Agency shall provide an opinion on the legality it sends to the contracting entity. (5) The contracting authority shall send for publication in the public procurement notice when it enters into a contract on the grounds to be controlled under para. 1. (6) When a contract award notice has been published and the Public Procurement Agency has found unlawful application of the grounds under para. 1, the opinion shall be forwarded to the Agency for State Financial Inspection. (7) The conditions and procedures for carrying out the control under para. 1 shall be determined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. In the event of an amendment of a contract, Article 234 Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 234, which becomes Art. 235: In the case of an amendment to a contract, the Commission shall inform the European Parliament and the procurement Art. 235. (1) Control under art. 229, para. 1, t. 8 shall include verification of the existence of the conditions of application on the basis of art. 116, para. 1, t. 2 when amending contracts whose value is equal to or higher than the value thresholds under art. 20, para. 1, t. 1-3. (2) In order to carry out the control, the contracting authority shall, before concluding the supplementary agreement, provide reasons for the reasons which require the modification and evidence, where applicable. (3) For the control under para. 1 The Public Procurement Agency shall provide an opinion on the legality it sends to the contracting entity. (4) The conditions and procedures for carrying out the control under para. 1 shall be determined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. Article 235 "Supports of contracting entities related to the control of the Public Procurement Agency'. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 235, which becomes Art. 236: supplies of contracting entities relating to the implementation of control by the Public Procurement Agency Art. 236. For the implementation of the control under art. 233-235 contracting entities shall send to the Public Procurement Agency: 1. the draft documents referred to in Article 1. Pursuant to Article 2 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, any aid granted 2. the evidence to the reasons of the decision in the cases referred to in art. 233; 3. reasons and evidence.. in the cases under art. 234 and 235. And another proposal by the order of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure by the National Representative Daniel Kirilov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 236 words.............................................................................. 233-235 "s' are replaced by Article 236 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 236, which becomes art. 237.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u69	That's it. The proposal under art. Is it 236 on the Commission's report or an importer? I mean, it's under art. 235 by importer, is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u70	By importer is art. 235, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u71	You have the floor to speak. There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the editorial for art. 230 by importer, as presented to you by the parliamentary tribune by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. Vote 79 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 1. The editorial proposal presented to you from the stands is accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to dismiss art. 232 by importer. Vote 76 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal to reject art. 232 by importer accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial proposal made by the parliamentary platform for art. 235 by importer, as presented to you by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova. Vote 82 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I vote on the name of Chapter 30, Section I, Articles 232 to 237 including, on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 5. The name of Chapter 30, Section I and Articles 232 to 237 including the Commission report have been adopted. Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u72	"Department II " Follow-up external control carried out by the Court of Auditors and the State Financial Inspection Agency. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. Article 237 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 237, which becomes art. 238. Article 238 "Signatures for carrying out checks by the State Financial Inspection Agency'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 238, which becomes Art. 239, as in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 237s and 237s are replaced by the following: 238.................................................................................. Article 239 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 239, which becomes Art. 240, and in it the words "c." 237s and 237s are replaced by the following: 238.................................................................................. Article 240 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 240, which becomes Art. 241. Article 241 "Cooperation between the appeal and control bodies'. Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 241 "Competition Protection' is replaced by "the court'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 24 is replaced by the following: 242, with the words in it. 237s and 237s are replaced by the following: 238..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u73	Statements? I won't. I vote on the name of Section II and Articles 237 to 240, including by importer, which are supported by the Commission and become members from 238 to 241, on the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 76 against 2, abstention 4. The name of Section II and Articles 238 to 241, including the Commission report, have been adopted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 11 against 12, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 241 by importer, which after support from the Commission becomes art. 242, with the words in it. 237s and 237s are replaced by the following: 238..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u74	Vote 85 MPs: 74, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u75	"Department III." Other authorities in charge of external control. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. Article 242 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 242, which becomes art. 243. "Department IV" Internal Control. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Section IV be amended as follows: "Department IV.. Public procurement management in public Article 243 "Inner rules'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 243, which becomes Art. 244.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u76	Statements? There aren't any. We vote on the name of Section III; art. Art. 242, which becomes art. 243; the name of Section IV, which is not supported by the Commission and it proposes the following text for the name of Section IV: 243, which becomes Art. 244. Vote 84 MPs: 77, none, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u77	Article 244 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 244, which becomes Article 244. 245. "Department V.................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. Article 245 "Sustainability of control'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 245, which shall become Article 245. 246. "Eighth" - Administrative Punitive Provisions. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Part Eight. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 246, which becomes Art. 247, as in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 148, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 149, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 247, which becomes art. 248 as in it the words. 13, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers in respect of the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 14, para. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 248 which becomes art. 249. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 249, which becomes art. 250. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 250, which becomes art. 251.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u78	Statements to art. 251? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My statement also covers subsequent members... to art.................................................................................................... 255, but since we stopped at art. 251, I would like to make some proposals for technical changes in relation to the fines that have been recorded here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u80	Which member do you mean, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u81	Articles 246, 247, 248, 249, 250 and 251, then there are a few more. I would like to draw attention to the honourable Members that, in the previous Law, the sanctions imposed are a fine and a penalty for both natural and legal persons. In the Law that we are currently adopting, the financial penalty has been abolished in most cases and only the fine has been left, which means that responsibility will be borne mainly by individuals. Some figure has been proposed, which is averaged between the two fines, so my proposals are aimed at reducing the fines that are recorded in these articles. Given that the purpose of these fines is an administrative penalty, it does not restore the damage caused by the act itself or inaction of the punished person, in this regard I would like to propose in: - Art. 246, para. 1 to be replaced by.10 000 to be replaced by.20 000; - Art. 247 to 10 000 to be 1000 to 5000. - Art. 248 to replace with.10 000 to.20 000 to replace with.10 000. - Art. 249...20 000.. to be replaced by - Art. To replace it with.10 000.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u82	Do you have them in writing?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u83	Yeah, I'll give it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u84	Thank you. So far, so far, so far. 250. Then you will make the other proposal for the next texts. Replices, honourable colleagues? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. First of all, we are voting on the proposals made by the MP Mr. Ivanov for amendments to the texts: - Art. 246, para. 1 to become.10 000. - Art. 247 to 10 000 to become 1000 to 5000. - Art. 248 "s 20 000 to 10 000" to become "10 000"; - Art. 249... 20 000... 10 - Art. To become a.10 000. I put to the vote the proposals made for changes in the quoted texts by Mr. Ivanov. Vote 76 MPs: 61, Against 1, abstention 14. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u85	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u86	The quarm is 68, we don't have a quorum yet. Please vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u87	Mr. Chairman, I'd like a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u88	It's a re-vote. Please, fellow Members, take your seats in this Chamber. We're going to have problems with the quorum, which gives me the right and the opportunity to do a next check. Vote 77 MPs: 69 against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the texts of art. 244 by importer, which becomes art. 245; the text of the name of Section V, supported by the Commission; art. 245 by importer, which becomes art. 246; name of Part-eighth, supported by the Commission; art. Article 244 in the version of the Commission; Article 247 in the version of the Commission; 246, which becomes Art. Article 247 in the version of the Commission; 247, which becomes art. 248 in the version of the Commission; art. 248 by importer, which becomes art. Article 249, supported by the Commission; 249, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. Art. 250, art. 250 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes art. 251, with the corrections made by Mr. Ivanov, who were voted. Vote 82 MPs: 73, against 2, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted. Please provide the next text 251, including.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u89	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 251, which becomes art. 252, and in it the words.............................................................................................. 173, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning mechanisms The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 252, which becomes art. 253. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 253, which becomes Art. 254. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 254, which becomes art. 255, as in para. 1 all over the words. 168s and 168s are replaced by.............................................................................................. 169.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 255, which becomes Art. 256. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 256, which becomes art. 257, and in it the words. 246, 248-255 247, 249-256.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u90	So far, please. The next member has a proposal. Mr. Ivanov has a proposal on these texts. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All I'm going to propose is the changes: art. 251 "sixteen thousand" to become ten thousand. art. 251, para. 1 sssssssss, 10 art. 254, para. 3..... 20 000... 10 art. 255, para. 1 sssssssss, 20 I would like to stress, my fellow Members, that where the contracting authority does not award a public contract on grounds, we retain the fine of 50,000, as I believe this is a major infringement and it is deliberate, adding to this proposal the percentages in the respective members of two to become one. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u92	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We are voting first on the proposal of the MP Svilen Ivanov. [[Noise and lines.]] Statements? Who wants it? Mr. Bayraktarov, come in!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u93	I did not understand by what motive Ivanov wants to reduce fines, and by public procurement, which have quite serious parameters, so, honourable Mr. President, I am proposing in art. 251 the number..20 000..... 25 000................................................................................................................ This is the minimum fine required for such violations. Minimal! In fact, the fine should be much more serious if we want it to have a disciplinary effect and have a result. Moreover, these fines have no problem being collected for the simple reason that they are pre-insured. In advance! There is no chance that the fine will not be collected, as in many other cases I have indicated. and in art. 252 the number..10 000..... 15 000 BGN............................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u94	Thank you. That was a statement. Do you want a line, Mr. Ivanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Apparently Mr. Bajraktarov was not in the hall when I explained that this is an average value between the financial penalty and the fine of the old law, Mr. Bajraktarov. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm talking a line to you. I explained this thing, and there's obviously some misconception in the figure itself that's being proposed. These are national parameters, do not depend on the European directives, but, anyway, bear in mind that mayors bear responsibilities not only under the Public Procurement Act, but are sanctioned by many other laws. I don't know what kind of salary the mayor gets from your town, but I don't think he'll get enough in our town for a fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u96	Thank you. That was a line. Is there a second line? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ivanov, in our town, which has been declared the best city for living three times, I really will have to tell you that eight years the mayor takes BGN 1380. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Now the municipal council has proposed to increase it to 1,800 leva. [[(Replyings and calls from GERB: We know! We know it!]] I'm glad you know that. Mr. Ivanov said he didn't know it, and for his information, I'm saying it. That's one for the paycheck. The second mayors are responsible, insofar as all fines are ultimately paid for a great regret by the taxpayer. [[Noise and lines.]] All the tickets! But don't try to convince me, because I've done not one or two investigations. [[Comments and calls from GERB.]] I have shown not one or two examples of irresponsibility, including there are cases when mayors are convicted, I deliberately do not comment on which political power they are, because the question is principled, and yet finally His Majesty the Taxpayer covers these costs, so what I propose is absolutely reasonable. You should listen to what you say: It was not provided for in the directives. And I don't know which way it should be explained to you that the directives define only the purpose. Targets! Nowhere is it said that the directive should be carried mechanically in Bulgarian legislation, quite the opposite! On the contrary! The demands in the law must be in line with the circumstances and realities of a given country, a member of the European Union, as is written in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, if you have read it. He's quite bulky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u98	Thank you. Are there any other speeches? There are no other speeches. We will vote separately on the texts of these articles because there is more than one proposal. We'll start with art. 251. In order to enter the proposals: the first proposal is by the MP Svilen Ivanov the number Voting mode. Vote 84 MPs: 70 against 5, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MP Mr. Bayraktarov in art. 251 the number to become.25 000. Voting mode. They voted 84 MPs: 10, against 43, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the wording of art. 251 with the vote and adopted amendment proposed by Mr. Ivanov. Please, voting mode. Vote 81 MPs: 71 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Under art. 252 has a proposal from the National Representative Mr. Svilen Ivanov the number Voting mode. Vote 82 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We shall vote on the wording of art. 252 with the proposed and adopted amendment by the National Representative Svilen Ivanov. This term is going from 252 to 253. Voting mode. Vote 82 MPs: 71 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. The following article is inserted: There are no proposals under this article. We shall vote on the wording of art. 253, which becomes Art. 254, supported by the Commission. Voting mode. Vote 79 MPs: 71, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Under art. 254 has a proposal from the National Representative Svilen Ivanov in para. 3 the number of.20 000..................................................................................................................... The 4th number of the 20 000 is to become the 10 000 number. These are the two proposals for change. [[Reply from the National Representative Svilen Ivanov.]] Mr. Ivanov, if you'd like one more time before we vote. You made an offer that wasn't there. It's written in the proposal. Nothing, repeat what you did in addition.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u99	Where the rate is 2 per cent, to become 1 per cent, in proportion to the reduction of the fines to 50%.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u100	Which member is this?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u101	Article 254.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u102	In para. 4 of art. Four hundred and twenty-four hundred and one hundred and one hundred and one hundred and one hundred and one hundred and one
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u103	and in art. 255 has it, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u104	We vote on Mr. Svilen Ivanov's proposal for art. 254. He just introduced him. Vote 76 MPs: 70 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We shall vote on the wording of art. 254, which becomes art. 255 in the version of the Commission, with the proposed and adopted proposals for changes of the National Representative Svilen Ivanov. Vote 75 MPs: 72 against 1, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted. The following article is inserted: 255. We vote on the proposal of the MP Svilen Ivanov: in art. 255, para. 1 the words "stwo hundred" shall be replaced by the words "one hundred thousand" and the words "six thousand" shall be replaced by the words "six thousand." Vote 77 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We vote on the whole text of art. 255, with the submitted and accepted proposals for changes of the National Representative Svilen Ivanov. Vote 77 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Vote art. 256, which was also presented, supported by the Commission and which becomes art. 257 in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u105	Vote 77 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u106	Article 257 supposed by the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 257 all over the Court of Justice of the European Union is replaced by the Supreme Administrative Court of Justice. 2. In para. The Supreme Administrative Court, in a three-member Chamber, shall be replaced by an appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court and shall be replaced by an appeal before a five-member Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 257, which becomes Article 257, shall be replaced by the following: 258, as in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 207, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 258, which becomes art. 259, and in it the words.............................................................................................. 246 " 255" is replaced by "c." 247. " 256". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 259, which becomes Art. 260. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 260, which becomes art. 261. "Additional provisions'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u107	Statements on the reported texts? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Lachezar Nikiforov, not supported by the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: 19 against 22, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote members numbers 257 to 260, including by importer, which shall become Articles 258 to 261, respectively, including. Vote 76 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted. We are voting on the name "Additional provisions" and § 1 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u108	Under § 2 there is a proposal from Lachezar Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Dimitar Delchev, made in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... For the purposes of this law: 1. Lawyer is a person within the meaning of art. 3, para. Art. 2 or art. 11 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the European Union, and a person who has acquired legal capacity in a third country where he has the right to exercise procedural representation in an arbitration or conciliation procedure or in proceedings under art. 13, para. 1, t. 7 letter.................................................................... 2. "Military equipment" is equipment specially designed or adapted for military purposes and intended for use as weapons, ammunition or military material. 3. Citizen's orders are all orders not listed in art. 147, para. 1 covering non-military goods and works, as well as logistics services concluded in accordance with the conditions of art. 151. 4. A written contract concluded under the law between one or more contracting entities and one or more contractors, with the object of works, supplies of goods or the provision of services, is required. 5. A written contract concluded between the contractor and one or more persons subject to the performance of one or more of the activities of a public procurement contract, construction, supply of goods or the provision of services, is required. 6. He is a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of 7. The Member State is each Member State of the European Union as well as any State of the European Economic Area Agreement. 8. The European Assessment Document is the documented assessment of the performance of a construction product in relation to its essential characteristics under the relevant European Assessment Document as defined in point 12 of Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 305/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2011 laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products and repealing Council Directive 89/106/EEC (OJ L 88, 4.4.2011, p.). 9. A positive technical assessment of the suitability of a product for a given purpose is based on the fulfilment of the essential requirements for construction through the inherent characteristics of the product and the conditions for application and use. European technical approvals shall be issued by bodies designated by the Member State for that purpose. 10. E-mails are electronic processing equipment (including digital compression) and data storage that are transmitted, transmitted and received by cable, by radio, optical or other electromagnetic means. 11. "Lifecycles' are all successive and/or interrelated stages, including the conduct of research and development activities, production, commercial activity and conditions for its operation, transport, use and maintenance, throughout the lifetime of the product or the construction or provision of the service, from the acquisition of the raw material or the generation of resources to the disposal, clearance and end of the operation or use. 12. A candidate interested is a candidate who has not been definitively removed from the pre-selection phase since he has not been notified of the suspension or appeal proceedings against the decision with which he was removed has not ended. 13. A participant who is not permanently removed from a procedure is interested. The suspension shall be final where the participant has been notified of the decision with which he has been suspended and that decision has entered into force. An interested participant is also a participant rated but not selected as a contractor. 14. A person concerned is any person who has or has had an interest in obtaining a particular contract and who has been or may be harmed by the alleged infringement. 15. The Member State in which the applicant or participant is established shall be entitled to: (a) for the natural persons of their country of birth within the meaning of art. 48 of the Code of Private International Law; (b) for legal persons... the law of the State determined under art. 56 of the Code of Private International Law; (c) for associations or other entities which are not legal entities, the law of the State in which they are registered or incorporated. 16. The requirements of construction, goods, services, processes or procedures are required for marking. 17. "Extreme circumstances' are circumstances caused by unpredictable events to the contracting authority, such as natural disaster, accident or disaster, as well as others that damage, directly endanger or may result in a subsequent occurrence of a danger to life or health of persons, to the environment, to public order, to national security, to the defence of the country or may significantly impede or impair the normal implementation of statutory activities of the contracting entity. 18. Innovation is the application of a new or significantly improved product, service or process, including, but not limited to, production or construction processes, of a new marketing approach or of a new method of organisation of business, workplace or external relations. 19. "Candidate' is a business entity that has applied for participation in a limited procedure, competition with negotiation, negotiation with a preliminary invitation to participate, negotiation with publication of a notice, competitive dialogue, partnership for innovation or participation in a limited project contest. 20. Any information or material, regardless of the form, nature or manner of transmission, for which a classification or security protection level has been set and which, in the interest of national security and under the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in force in the Member State concerned, require protection against abuse, destruction, removal, disclosure, loss or knowledge by unauthorised persons or any other injury. 21. The contracting authority, its employees or persons employed by it outside its structure, which participate in the preparation or award of the contract or may influence the outcome of the contract, shall have an interest which may result in a benefit within the meaning of art. 2, para. 3 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest and which could be considered to affect their impartiality and independence in relation to the award of the contract. 22. The crisis is any situation in a Member State or in a third country where a harmful event has occurred which, on its scale, clearly exceeds the harmful events of everyday life and which significantly threatens the life and health of people, has significant consequences on property or requires measures to supply the population with essential goods. There is also a crisis when the occurrence of such an injurious event is deemed to be imminent. Crisis is also armed conflicts and wars. 23. "Market" is any document, certificate or certificate confirming that construction, products, services, processes or procedures meet certain requirements. 24. Research and development are all activities that cover fundamental research, applied research and experimental development, and the latter may include the creation of prototypes, such as devices to demonstrate the achievements of a new concept or new technology in a relevant or representative environment. 25. In the absence of an appropriate tender, a tender that does not meet the technical specifications and the requirements for the performance of the contract or is submitted by a participant which does not meet the selection criteria set out or for which any of the grounds for exclusion referred to in the procedure are present. 26. An inappropriate application for participation is an application submitted by a candidate who does not meet the selection criteria set or for whom any of the grounds for exclusion referred to in the procedure are present. 27. In the present case, the Commission considers that the conditions laid down in Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty are fulfilled. 28. The objective parts of the contract are parts of the subject-matter which cannot, by their nature, be awarded to more than one contractor. 29. The position at stake is such part of the subject-matter of the contract, which, although it may be a stand-alone subject-matter of the contract, is systematically linked to the other positions of the subject-matter of the contract. 30. The General Terminological Dictionary (CPV) is a hierarchically structured classification nomenclature divided into sections, groups, classes, categories and sub-categories and applicable to public procurement in order to align the different references used by contracting entities to describe the subject matter of their procurement procedures. 31. The General Technical Specification is a technical specification in the field of information and communication technologies drawn up in accordance with art. 13 and 14 of Regulation (EU) No 1025/2012 on European standardisation, amending Council Directives 89/686/EEC and 93/15/EEC and Directives 94/9/EC, 94/25/EC, 95/16/EC, 97/23/EC, 98/34/EC, 2004/22/EC, 2007/23/EC, 2009/23/EC and 2009/105/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Decision 87/95/EEC and Decision No 1673/2006/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 316, 14.11.2012, p.). 32. The conformity assessment body shall be a body carrying out conformity assessment activities including calibration, testing, certification and verification and accredited pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 765/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the requirements for accreditation and market surveillance relating to the marketing of products and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 339/93 (OJ L 218, 13.8.2008, p.). 33. "Written" or "In writing" is any expression consisting of words or figures that can be read, reproduced and subsequently communicated, including information that is transmitted and stored by electronic means. 34. supposed to be a person who has agreed to execute a certain share of the subject-matter of the contract. 35. The following forms of support for purchasing activities are activities supporting the purchase, in particular: (a) technical infrastructure enabling contracting entities to award public contracts or to conclude framework agreements for works, supplies or services; (b) consultations on the conduct or development of procurement procedures; (c) preparation and management of procurement procedures on behalf of and on behalf of the contracting entity concerned. 36. A consignment has been requested in the final form in which it is transported regardless of weight. In addition to correspondent consignments, such consignments may include, for example, books, catalogues, newspapers, periodicals and postal parcels containing goods of or without commercial value, regardless of weight. 37. "Post cash transfers" are services within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 9 of the Additional provision of the Postal Services Act; 38. The postal services are services that consist of collecting, sorting, transport or delivery of postal items, whether they fall within the scope of the universal postal service within the meaning of the Postal Services Act or outside its scope. 39. The Government is any national, regional or local government of a Member State or of a third country. 40. The transmission is an audio-visual transmission under art. 2, para. 3 of the Law on Radio and Television or Radio Transmission under art. 2, para. 4 of the Law on Radio and Television. 41. "Professional competence' is the existence of knowledge obtained through education or additional qualification and/or skills acquired in the exercise of a particular position or position in the performance of work, work or civil service. 42. A public undertaking is any undertaking over which public contracting entities under art. 5, para. 2, p. 1 s 14 can exercise a dominant influence. Dominating influence by a public entity under art. 5, para. 2, p. In any of the following cases, the contracting authority shall be presumed to be directly or indirectly: (a) holds the majority of the subscribed capital of the undertaking; (b) control the majority of the votes relating to the shares/units issued by the undertaking; (c) may appoint more than half of the members of the management or supervisory body of the undertaking. 43. The following conditions are met: (a) it is designed for the specific purpose of meeting needs of general interest which are not industrial or commercial; (b) it is financed by more than 50 percent by state, territorial or local authorities or other bodies governed by public law or is subject to management control by those bodies; or it has a management or supervisory authority, most of the half of the members of which are appointed by a public body under art. 5, para. 2, p. 1-14. The needs of general interest shall be industrial or commercial when the person acts in normal market conditions, seeking to make a profit by self-accepting the losses of his activity. A medical establishment of a commercial company whose capital is at least 2/3 privately owned, financed by more than 50 per cent by state, regional or local authorities or by other public bodies; or is subject to management control by those authorities; or has an administrative, management or supervisory body, most of the members of which are appointed by state, regional or local authorities or by other public bodies and which has an industrial or commercial character, although meeting the needs of general interest, is not a public authority within the meaning of and for the purposes of the Public Procurement Act. 44. A related undertaking is an undertaking whose annual accounts are consolidated with those of the contracting entity in accordance with the Accounting Act or any undertaking which: (a) may be directly or indirectly under the dominant influence of the contracting entity; or (b) may exercise a dominant influence on the contracting entity; or (c) together with the contracting entity falls under the dominant influence of another undertaking due to ownership, financial contribution or the rules applying to it. 45. "Related persons' are those within the meaning of § 1, point. 13 and 14 of the additional provisions of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. 46 The specialized enterprises or cooperatives of people with disabilities shall be those within the meaning of art. 28, para. 1 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities or their equivalent under the law of a Member State. 47. "Special or exclusive rights' are rights granted by a competent authority within the meaning of a legal, regulatory or administrative act which preserves the exercise of sectoral activities for one or more entities and therefore substantially affects the ability of other entities to carry out such activities. There is no special or exclusive right to rights which have been granted through a procedure in which sufficient publicity has been provided and which have been: (a) granted under this Law or by the Law on concessions; or (b) procedures under other EU legal acts listed in Annex No 12 which provide sufficient prior transparency for granting authorisations on the basis of objective criteria. 48. The standard is a technical specification adopted by a recognised standardisation body for repeated or continuous application, compliance with which is not mandatory and which may be: (a) a standard adopted by an international standardisation organisation and accessible to the general public; (b) a standard adopted by a European standardisation organisation and accessible to the general public; (c) A standard standard adopted by a national standardisation organisation and accessible to the general public. 49. The defence standard is a technical specification with which compliance is not mandatory and which is approved by a standardisation organisation specialising in the development of technical specifications for multiple or continuous defence applications. 50. "Stephanical entity' is any natural or legal person or entity or association of such persons and/or entities that market construction and/or construction, supply of goods or provision of services. 51. It is the result of construction works or works in the field of construction which is sufficient in itself to perform an economic or technical function. 52. A joint venture is a contractual association of sectoral contracting entities to carry out the sectoral activities under art. 123. 53. The European standardisation bodies, other than European standards, are each the result of which has been established in accordance with procedures adapted to the development of market needs. 54. The technical specifications are: (a) in the case of works contracts, all technical prescriptions contained, in particular, in the procurement documents setting out the required characteristics of materials, goods or consumables, in order to comply with the use envisaged by the contracting authority; these characteristics must include a level of compliance with environmental and climate protection requirements, design that meets all requirements (including access to disabled persons) and conformity assessment, performance, safety or size, including procedures for quality assurance, terminology, symbols, testing and test methods, packaging, marking and labelling, instructions for use and production processes and methods at each stage of the construction life cycle. The characteristics shall also include design and pricing rules, test conditions, inspection and acceptance of construction and construction methods or technologies, as well as any other technical conditions that the contracting authority may impose under general or special regulations in respect of completed construction and materials or parts thereof; (b) in the case of procurement for supplies or services, a specification in the form of a document setting out the characteristics of the product or service required, such as quality level, performance level, environmental and climate requirements, design to meet all requirements (including access to people with disabilities) and conformity assessment, performance, product application, safety or dimensions, including product-related requirements regarding the name under which it is sold, terminology, symbols, testing and test methods, packaging, marking and labelling, instructions for use, production processes and methods at each stage of the supply or service life cycle and conformity assessment procedures. 55. The third country is a country which is not a Member State. 56. The management of the single account system and the fiscal reserve shall include: (a) centralisation of funds, receipts and payments through transit accounts and SBERA and related services, activities, programme and resource insurance under the Public Finance Act; (b) managing the liquidity of the single account system and investing temporarily free funds in financial instruments under the Public Finance Act; (c) management of the State Fund's assets to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system under the State Fund Act on the Sustainability of the State Pension System; (d) management of other accounts and assets included in the fiscal reserve. 57. Other services other than postal services are services provided in the following areas: (a) mail service services (both the services that precede and the services that follow the dispatch, including (b) postal services not covered by point 58. The contracting authority shall specify the specific and objective requirements relating to the performance process, other than the award criteria, for the performance of the contract. Contract execution conditions shall not be comparatively assessed and shall not affect the classification of tenders. 59. "Participant' is a business entity that has submitted an offer or project or is invited to participate in negotiations. 60. The public service networks identified are: (a) transmission and distribution networks within the meaning of the Energy Act.............................................................................................. 124 and 125; (b) water supply system and sewerage system within the meaning of § 1, para. 1, t. 32 and 33 of the Additional Regulations of the Water Act................................................................................................ 124. 61. Financial instruments are financial instruments within the meaning of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. 62. The persons within the meaning of art. 2 of Commission Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market in application of art. 107 and 108 of the Treaty (OB, L 187, 26.6.2014) 63. The central purchasing body is a contracting entity carrying out centralised purchasing activities and possibly supporting purchasing activities. For defence and/or security contracts, a central purchasing body may be a contracting entity which carries out centralised purchasing activities or a European public authority which: (a) acquire supplies and/or services intended for contracting entities; or (b) conclude contracts or framework agreements for works, supplies or services intended for contracting entities. 64. "Centralised purchasing activities are activities that are carried out continuously in one of the following forms: (a) acquisition of supplies and/or services intended for contracting entities; (b) the award of public contracts or the conclusion of framework agreements for works, supplies or services intended for contracting entities. 65. "Sensory equipment, construction or service' is equipment, construction or service for security purposes that include, require and/or contain classified information. 66. The total turnover is the sum of net sales revenue. 67. A turnover in the area covered by the contract is equal to the part of the net sales revenue realised by an activity falling within the scope of the contract. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In the Commercial Law (prom., SG No. ...) in Paragraph 1d of the Additional Provisions, the words........................................................................................... 7 of the Public Procurement Act is replaced by............................................................................................. 5, para. 2-4 of the Public Procurement Act According to § 8 there is a proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 10 is amended as follows: Within 5 days of receipt of a request from a contracting entity under Article 1. 5 of the Public Procurement Act or by a person who organises a procurement procedure under the Public Procurement Act, the revenue body shall provide information on the existence or absence of obligations of the person, with the exception of obligations under outstanding acts, as well as deferred, deferred or secured obligations. The National Revenue Agency may provide contracting entities with electronic access to information on the presence or absence of obligations of persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u109	Statements by paragraphs 2 to 8 including? I won't. There's a vote coming up. Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 2 to 8 including on the Commission report, together with the name of the section of the Board of Directors. Vote 85 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 6. The name of the division "Transitional and final provisions" together with paragraphs 2 to 8 have been adopted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u110	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, as we are approaching the texts concerning the annexes to the various provisions, please put to the vote in this House my proposal not to read the textual proposals, which in the majority are tabular but only the unaccepted proposals. In other words, not to read the consolidated text as adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs. It shall be attached to the report and certified accordingly, in accordance with the vote in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u111	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. This procedural proposal will be put to the vote once we are done with the transversal and final provisions and get to Annex No 1. I just need time to see how the lyrics are going. We're listening to you on the new paragraphs 9 through 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u112	The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs 9 to 17: ..................................................... In the Law on Forests (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 174, para. 3 the words "suppliers" shall be deleted. § 10. In the Law on the State Gazette (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 7, para. 2 the words for public procurement under the Public Procurement Act are deleted. § 11. In the Law on Road Traffic (prom., SG No. ...) in art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3 words per article. 12, para. 1, t. 13s and 13s shall be replaced by the following: 13, para. 1, t. 13.................................................................................. § 12. In the Law on Access to Public Information (prom., SG No. ...) in § 1, t. 4 of the Additional Provisions all over the words under art. 7, p. 1 or 3 5, para. 2, p. 1-14 " and the words "30" of 100 are replaced by "50" of 100. § 13. In the Law on Electronic Governance (prom., SG No. ...) in § 1, t.11 of the Additional Provisions, the words. The following points are inserted after Article 7 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013: 5, para. Two-four. § 14. In the Law on Municipal Property (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 22, para. the third sentence is deleted; § 15. In the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. Article 5 is amended as follows: Art. 5. In the case of the sale of shares through a public offering, the Privatisation Agency and after-privatization control or municipal councils shall entrust investment firms with the preparation and conclusion of a privatisation transaction. 2. Paragraph 8 of the Additional Provisions is repealed. § 16. In the Law on concessions (prom., SG No. ...) in § 1 of the Additional provision (e.g. 14 is amended as follows: It's 14 years old. The following are related persons: (a) relatives on a straight line without restriction; (b) relatives in line to the fourth degree including; c) relatives of matchmaking to the second degree including; (d) spouses or persons in actual cohabitation; (e) partners; (f) the persons one of whom participates in the management of the company of the other; (g) a company and a person holding more than 5 per cent of the shares or shares issued with voting rights in the company. No related company whose capital is 100 per cent of state or municipal ownership and a person exercising the rights of the State, respectively, of the municipality in that company. § 17. In the Public-Private Partnership Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. 1 the words supplier of a negotiated procedure with a supplier shall be replaced by a competitive procedure with a negotiated procedure. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: (1) The notice of procedure for determining a private partner shall contain the information referred to in Part B of Annex 4 to art. 23, para. 5, t. 2 point (a) of the Public Procurement Act, where applicable, with a mandatory description of: 1. the entity carrying out the activity in the public interest and stating that the activity is carried out by means of a PPP; 2. all guarantees set out in the draft PPP contract; 3. the maximum amount of payments as well as other forms of financial support. (b) in para. 3, p. 2 words.............................................................................. 25, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European 3. Article 36 is amended as follows: Art. 36. (1) For candidates and participants in the procedure shall apply the requirements of art. Art. 54-65, 67-69 and art. 111 of the Public Procurement Act. (2) The Participants shall submit an offer in accordance with the requirements of the Public Procurement Act and its implementing rules. The tender shall also be subject to a financial and economic model for the implementation of the 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. The second sentence is replaced by the second sentence. 72.................................................................................. 103, para. 3.................................................................................. (b) in para. 2, p. 2 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in (c) in para. 3 words.............................................................................. 74, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, p. 1 the words supplier of a negotiated procedure with a supplier shall be replaced by a competitive procedure with a negotiated procedure. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. 1 the words supplier of a negotiated procedure with a supplier shall be replaced by a competitive procedure with a negotiated procedure. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1, t. 2 words.............................................................................. 47, para. 1, 2 and 5 and shall be replaced by the following: 54, para. 1 and the circumstances referred to in the notice or in the invitation referred to in art. 55, para. 1.................................................................................. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72 words "Chapter eleven" "Appeal" is replaced by "six" "Remove violations of procedures." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. The award of public contracts, the conclusion of framework agreements and the conduct of competitions for projects for which a decision has been taken to open or an invitation has been published under Chapter 8 of the repealed Public Procurement Act, shall be concluded in the current order. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm The Treaties, on the basis of a framework agreement concluded until the entry into force of this Law, shall be awarded in accordance with the procedure in force at the date of the decision to open a procedure for the conclusion of a framework agreement. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. The dynamic supply systems and pre-selection systems established until the entry into force of this law shall remain in operation until 30 June 2016 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. Where a complaint has been lodged before the Commission for Protection of Competition before the Supreme Administrative Court before the entry into force of this Act, the proceedings under the complaint shall be initiated and completed in accordance with the current order. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 22. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... For public contracts or framework agreements concluded until the entry into force of this law, the provisions of art. 116 and 118. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected due to the dropping of the item. 1 of § 20 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u113	Colleagues, speeches on the reported new paragraphs with numbers 9 to 17 and paragraphs up to 23 including on the Commission report? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 9 to 23 on the Commission report. They voted 91 MPs: for 84, they didn't mind, they didn't hold back 7. The motion is accepted. Since § 15 by importer is proposed to be rejected by the Commission because of the removal of point 1 of Paragraph 20 by importer, I will put this text to the vote after we vote § 20 by importer, which has not yet been reported. Paragraph 16 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u114	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 16, which becomes § 24, and in it the words................................................................................................... The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that § 17 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position as such. 5 letter (s) of § 29. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Contractors shall build the units under art. 245, para. 1 by 31 December 2016 (2) Administrations of the executive authority under art. 36 of the Administration Act establishes the units within the total number of their staff established in the relevant establishment acts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u115	Statements under paragraphs 16 to 18 by importer? Here you go, Mr. Karadjov. [[Reply from MP Grozdan Karadzhov.]] Your offer is under § 19 by importer. [[Reply from MP Grozdan Karadzhov.]] There are no speeches. We are voting § 16 by importer, which becomes § 24 on the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. We are voting on § 17 "The Commission proposes to reject it. We are voting on the Commission's proposal under § 17 by importer, as it is reflected in its systematic location elsewhere. They voted 93 MPs: 85, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We are voting § 18 by importer, which becomes § 25, in the version of the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 85, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u116	Under § 19 there is a proposal from the MP Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Transitional and Final Provisions, § 19, p. 1 to drop the words The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The Council of Ministers shall adopt rules for the implementation of the Law, the Ordinance under art. 13, para. 2 and the tariff referred to in Article 2. 220, para. 1 by 15 April In accordance with (2) Within three months of the entry into force of this law, the Council of Ministers shall, on a proposal from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, determine by decision a list of goods and services according to the General Terminological Dictionary under art. 12, para. 1, t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission proposes to establish § 27 and § 28: "The Bible says: The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall issue the ordinance under art. 71, para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. § 28. The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall issue the ordinance under art. 40, para. 4 by 1 July 2017 Under § 20, there is a proposal from Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... The law shall enter into force from 15 April 2016, with the exception of: 1. Article 39, which shall enter into force from 1 July 2017, and as regards central purchasing bodies from 1 January 2017. 2. Article 40: (a) paragraphs 1 and 3, t. 1-4 and so on. 10 which shall enter into force from 1 July 2017; (b) paragraph 3, t. 5-9, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2020. 3. Article 41, para. 1 on technical compatibility and connectivity and para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4. Article 59, para. 4 which shall enter into force from 1 July 2018. 5. Article 67: (a) paragraph 4 concerning the mandatory presentation of the EEDOP in electronic form which shall enter into force from 1 April 2018; (b) paragraph 8, t. 2 which shall enter into force from 1 June 2018. 6. Article 97, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2017. 7. Article 232 and Article 232 233, which shall enter into force from 1 September 2016. 8. Paragraph 26, para. 1 and § 27, which shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation of the Law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u117	Statements on the reported paragraphs?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u118	And one suggestion to make on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure: In § 29, t. Article 7 233,.............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u119	Art. Art. 232, Art. 233, which shall enter into force from 1 September. Who's tossed out?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u120	In § 22, t. 7 words.................................................................... 233, which shall enter into force and shall be replaced by the entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u121	It's kind of out of the question. 233 and remains only........................................................................................................... 232, which shall enter into force on 1 September. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u123	Statements on the reported texts? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Karadjov and a group of MPs under § 19, which the Commission does not support. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 99 MPs: 22, against 21, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote a paragraph number 19 by importer which shall become § 26 in the version of the Commission and the proposal to establish new paragraphs 27 and 28 in the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. In § 20 by importer, which becomes § 29, Mrs. Alexandrova proposed in point. 3 to............................................................................................. 233.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 7 to say: "7." Article 232, which shall enter into force from 1 September 2016 We are voting on Mrs. Alexandrova's proposal. Vote 92 MPs: 84, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We are voting all § 29 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 83, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We now return to the Commission's proposal under § 15 by importer. The Commission proposes not to support the wording of § 15 to be rejected, since in § 20 by importer, we have already voted on it, i.e. One down. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 86 against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We will now interrupt for 30 minutes, then continue with the annexes to the Bill. Thirty minutes off! (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u124	Colleagues, we begin with the annexes to the Bill. Before the interruption, Mr. Kirilov made a procedural proposal for a report in the Chamber of Annexes only with regard to the proposals made, not supported by the Commission, while the supported proposals in the text section, as well as in the graphic tables of the annexes, should be voted on in accordance with the Commission report. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 73 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We're listening to you, Mrs. Alexandrova, Annex 1 to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u125	Annex 1 to art. 3, para. 1, t. 1 letter.............................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 1. Annex 2 to art. 11, para. 3 ssssssssss a list of social services and other specific services. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of Annex 2 to art. 11, para. 3 according to the Commission report. Annex 3 to art. 20, para. 1, t. 2 point (b) is replaced by the following: (a) is replaced by the following: (b) is added: (c) is replaced by the following: (c) is added: (d) is replaced by the following: (d) is added: (d) is replaced by the following: (e) is replaced by the following: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u126	That's it. Colleagues, speeches on Annex 1, No 2 and No 3? I won't. I vote on Annex No 1 by importer, supported by the Commission, Annex No 2 by Commission version, Annex No 3 by importer, supported by the Commission, we vote on the three applications. Vote 87 MPs: 83 against 1, abstention 3. Annexes 1, 2 and 3 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u127	Annex 4 to art. 23, para. 4 t. 2 (b) (c) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v), (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) "A" - Information related to pre-information notices. "Section I - Information which must at least contain the prior information notices.' Section II - Additional information which must at least contain the prior information notice when used to disclose the initiation of the procedure. The information shall contain at least the contract notice. The contract notice shall contain at least the information referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 of this Article and shall contain the information referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 of this Article. The notice of amendment of a contract should contain at least the following information. The voluntary transparency notices should contain at least the following information. The project contest notices should contain at least the project contest notices. The results notices of a project contest carried out should contain at least the results of the project contest. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes an version of Annex 4 pursuant to the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u128	That was Annex 4. Annex No 5 to the EEA Agreement should therefore be amended 483 of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u129	Annex 5 to art. 23, para. 4 t. 2 (a) (b) (b) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) The information which shall contain at least the periodicals shall be reported. "Section I - Information to be included in all cases'. Section II - Additional information which must at least be provided when the notice is used to disclose the initiation of a procedure or allows for shortening the time limits for receipt of tenders. The information to be included in the contract notice shall at least: ♪ A. ♪ Initiate procedures. B. Limited procedures. C. Negotiation procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u130	It's an importer. Present Mr. Daniel Kirilov's proposal on page 1. 500.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u131	Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose an amendment to Annex No 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u132	Colleagues, speeches on Annex 4 and Annex 5 in the Commission's version? No. We are voting on both apps with numbers 4 and 5. Vote 88 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u133	Annex 6 to art. 23, para. 6, p. 2 letter.............................................................................. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose an version of Annex 6 to art. 23, para. 7, p. 2, b. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u134	We are voting for Annex 6 in the version of the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 86 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u135	Annex 7 to art. 23, para. 7, p. 2 (b)................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 7. Annex No 8 to art. 41, para. 1, t. 1. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose an version of Annex No 8 to art. 34, para. 1, t. 1. Annex 9 to art. 41, para. 1, t. 2. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose an version of Annex 9 to art. 34, para. 1, t. 2. Annex 10 to art. 115. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 10. Annex No 11 to art. 71, para. 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u136	Annex No 8 is to art. 34, para. 1, t. 1. Annex No. 9 to which member is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u137	To art. 41, para. 1, t. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u138	And Annex 10?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u139	Annex 10 is to art. 115. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u140	There is Annex 9 to art. 41, para. 1, t. 2 on page 528 of the report, and on page 530, Annex 9 to art. 34, para. 1, t. Two? Which vote do we vote on? In the version of the Commission, Annex No 9 is to another member. [[Reference between the President Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva and the rapporteur of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova.]] Renumbered are the texts of the importing members, okay. Please report Annex No 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u141	Annex 10 to art. 115. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u142	That's it. Colleagues, speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote Annex No 7 by importer supported by the Commission; Annex No 8 to art. 41, para. 1, t. 1 by importer which, according to the Commission report, becomes Annex No 8 to art. 34, para. 1, t. 1; Annex No 9 to art. 41, para. 1, t. 2 as by importer and according to the Commission report Annex No 9 is to art. 34, para. 1, t. 2; Annex No 10 to art. 115 By importer, there is no change in the text of the importer, in the numbering of the members. We vote on the Annexes from No 7 to No 10. 90 MPs voted: 86, against 2, abstention 2. Applications accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u143	Annex No 11 to art. 71, ) (a.k.a. 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 11. Annex No 12 to art. 130, para. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 12. Annex No 13 to art. 141, para. 1. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose an amendment to Annex No 13. Annex 14 to art. 150. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 14. Annex No 15 to art. 151. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 15. Annex No 16 to art. 155, para. 2. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose an version of Annex 16 to art. 156, para.2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u144	You will not read the version of the annexes, but Appendix 16 is in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u145	Annex No 17 to art. 166, ) (a.k.a. 2. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose an version of Annex No 17 to art. 167, para. 2. Annex No 18 to art. 175, para. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 18. Annex No. 19 to art. P.O. Box 76.A. 1. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose an version of Annex 19 to art. 178, para. 1. Annex No 20 to art. 187, para. 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u146	Colleagues, statements on applications with numbers 11 to 20 included? I won't. Anblok, I vote on the Commission report, apps with numbers from 11 to 20 inclusive. They voted 91 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 3. The proposals have been adopted, and thus the Public Procurement Act at second reading. [[Applause from GERB.]] Coming up next: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ANIMAL TREATMENT. Go ahead, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u147	Madam President, honourable Members! I suggest we extend the working hours until 6:00, so we can start with the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u148	Ms. Karayancheva, our decision on the extraordinary meeting is with an early hour and an agenda set at both points. You can make the procedure that you propose the meeting to continue until 18:00, and this is what you propose.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u149	Yes, I propose by 6:00 p.m. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u150	A reverse opinion? I won't. We vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u151	Vote 88 MPs: 79, against 5, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u152	On the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please vote for admission to the Chamber of: Evgeni Makaveev
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u153	We are voting on the proposal for admission in the Chamber of said persons. Vote 82 MPs: 76, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u154	"Renewal and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs to create a new § 1. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the words the Executive Director of BABBH shall be replaced by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and shall be added by the order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Paragraph 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2. Paragraph 2. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs § 2 to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u155	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law, which shall be supported by the Commission; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with the corresponding content of the report; the importer's proposal for § 1, supported by the Commission, which shall become § 2; and the Commission's proposal to dismiss § 2. We only vote on proposals from the Commission on its report. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The name of the Law and paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Commission report have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u156	Paragraph 3. Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. Paragraph 6. Proposal of the MP Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u157	Statements? I won't. We vote on the texts of the importer for paragraphs 3 to 5 including, supported by the Commission, and on the Commission's proposal to reject § 6. We are voting on proposals from the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u158	Paragraph 7? a proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In § 7 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." In para. 2 the word "tris" is replaced by "two." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u159	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 14 against 36, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 7, which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 6 in its report. Please vote § 6 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 76 against 3, abstention 2. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u160	According to § 8 there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the "1." In para. 2: (a) c. 2 the words "and a document certifying the professional experience of the manager" shall be deleted; (b) c. 5 words are replaced by the Veterinarian Medical Committee, and the words the National Council is replaced by the District Council of the Regional Colleges. 2. In para. 4 the word "the procedure' is replaced by "the order'. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. 2, p. 5 after the word Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... Art. 36 is amended as Art. 36. (1) In the event of punishment imposed under art. 28, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the word organisation of veterinarians in Bulgaria, the President of the Regional College of BBC within three days of the imposition of the penalty shall inform in writing the Director of the relevant ODBH and the owner or user of the establishment with which the veterinarian has a contract in accordance with art. Art. 137a or art. 137b. (2) Within three days of receipt of the notification under para. 1 The director of ODBH shall issue an order to suspend the registration for the exercise of the profession of the veterinarian until the punishment under para. 1. (3) The order under para. 2 is reported and can be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal doesn't stop the execution. (4) Within 7 days of the entry into force of the punishment under para. 1 The President of the Regional College of the BSC shall inform the Director of the relevant ODBH and the owner or user of the establishment with which the veterinarian has a contract under art. Art. 137a or art. 137b. A copy of the act referred to in Article shall be attached to the notification. 29, para. 5 of the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria with a note entered into force. (5) Within three days of receipt of the notification under para. 4 The Director of the ODBH shall issue an order to suspend the registration for the exercise of the profession of the veterinarian until the period of the sentence has expired. Under § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission does not support the proposal: In § 9 concerning art. 39, para. 4 t. 15 words at least once every two months shall be replaced by a call from the owners and in case of an alert for disease risk. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1, t. 4 the words "State preventive programme and programmes for the surveillance and eradication of animal diseases' shall be replaced by the "Support for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases'; 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 5 the words of the paper carrier shall be deleted; (b) c. 6 after abbreviation (c) c. 7 the words of the veterinarians shall be deleted; (d) c. 14 point (b) is replaced by the "Convention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u161	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov for § 9 by importer, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 77 MPs: for 12, against 8, they abstained 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10 on the Commission report, with 8 and 9 being new with their respective content on the report. We are voting on paragraphs 7 to 10, including the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: 76, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs 7 to 10 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u162	Under paragraph 10, there is proposal of the MP Ivan Stankov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and 3 and does not support it by t. 2: "2." In the new version of art. 46d, at the end of the text, a comma shall be placed after the word "doctors" and added to the register under art. 32 ".."......................................................................................................... Proposal of the MP Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer for § 10 but because it does not comply with art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 833 on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts, proposes to be formed in new paragraphs 11 ..................................................... Article 46a is amended as follows: Art. 46a. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall inform the European Commission and the competent authorities of the Member States of the implementation of the measures for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases and. § 12. Article 46b is repealed. § 13. Article 46c is amended as follows: Art. 46c. (1) The fees to be paid for the implementation of the measures under the programme for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases and The tariff is published in the Official Gazette and published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. (2) The designated under para. 1 fees can only be changed according to the inflation index set by the National Statistical Institute. § 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46d, para. 1 the words suppliing the measures under art. 46b, as well as......................................................................................................... 46h, 46i and art. 118, para. 1, including......................................................................................................................... The following points are inserted after point 46b (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): § 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46e the words "for the supervision and eradication of animal diseases and the state prevention programme" shall be replaced by "Article." 46h, 46i and art. 118, para. 1.................................................................................. § 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The words "the state preventive programme and the programmes for the surveillance and eradication of animal diseases" shall be replaced by the programmes referred to in Article 46. 46h, 46i and art. 118, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.' Proposal for an editorial amendment in accordance with art. Paragraph 81. 2 of the Rules of Organization and the activities of the National Assembly on the Law. In the new paragraph 13, in the version of the Commission concerning art. 46, para. 1 and 2 the words "the fees and fees' shall be replaced by "the prices and prices'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Chapter 4, Section II is created art. 46h-46k: Art. 46z. (1) The National Programme for the Prevention, Supervision, Control and Elimination of Animal Diseases, as relevant to the European Union shall contain the data under art. Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of 27 June 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 6 (2) The program under para. 1 shall be submitted to the Minister for Agriculture and Food for approval by 15 April of the year preceding the year of its implementation. (3) The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall send the program under para. 1 of the European Commission for approval by 31 May of the year preceding the year for its implementation. (4) For the implementation of the program under para. 1 BABH shall draw up a report to the European Commission pursuant to art. 14 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: Art. 46th. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall establish a programme for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases and of national importance, which shall be approved in accordance with art. 46z, para. 2. Art. 46k. (1) The measures under the programmes under art. 46h and 46i shall be included in the programme under art. 118, para. 1. (2) When the programs under art. 46h and 46i are approved for a term shorter than the period of the programme under art. 118, para. 1, the measures referred to therein shall be implemented for the period for which they have been approved. (3) When the programs under art. 46h and 46i are approved for a period longer than the period of the programme under art. 118, para. 1, the measures referred to therein for the period after the expiry of the programme shall be included in the programme for the following period. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Stankov, made in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. Chapter 4 is created with art. 46l and 46m: ..Chapter 4......................................................................................................... Establishment of veterinary medicinal products in higher schools Art. 46l. (1) Veterinary activities under art. 2, p. 3 is carried out in a veterinary clinic, veterinary infirmary (cabinette) or veterinary laboratory of a university. (2) The persons active in the objects under para. One, they don't belong to the BBC. Art. 46 meters. The conditions and procedures for carrying out the activity under art. 46l, para. 1 as well as subsequent controls shall be determined by a regulation jointly issued by the Minister of Agriculture and Food and the Minister of Education and Science. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 7 shall be added at the end, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 2'. 2. In para. 8 words "Commission Regulation (EC) No 504/2008 of 6 June 2008 implementing Council Directive 90/426/EEC and Directive 90/427/EEC as regards methods of identification of equidae (OJ L 149, 3 of 7 June 2008'.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 50', are replaced by "Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/262 of 17 February 2015 laying down rules in accordance with Council Directives 90/427/EEC and The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51a the words s 5-day period since the birth of the animals shall be replaced by the maximum time limits according to art. 4a of Regulation (EC) No 1760/2000, art. Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 21/2004 and Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 21/2004 Article 12 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2015/262 and within the time limits laid down in Article 12 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2015/262. 51, para. The following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: Proposal of the MPs Rumen Hristov, Doncho Baxanov and a group of MPs to be created § 13a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76, para. 2, p. 2 after the word "Sertifications" "Sertifications" shall be added and after the word "Sertifications" shall be added. Proposal by the National Representative Zhivko Martinov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80 of the Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Art. 1 and 2 120, para. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 after the word........................................................................................................ 123, para. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 the words "the State's preventive programme" shall be replaced by the "Support for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases' and "Supreme for the prevention, control and eradication of animal diseases'. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 at the beginning is added
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u163	You have the floor to speak. National Representative Georgi Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I take note of the proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This proposal was made during the discussion itself and in the presence of all stakeholders and organisations. At that time, and in the form in which it was presented, it did not then cause significant objections. After it was and was probably made sense by the various stakeholders and especially by the Bulgarian Veterinary Union, there were very sharp and serious objections. They are sent to many MPs. I am proposing as some kind of compromise between the motives of the applicant, the respected professor. Stankov, and the opposition of the Union of veterinarians to the issue 2. They contest in general the right of higher education institutions to develop veterinary activities in laboratories which are built for the preparation of students and seriously contest this exception of teachers working there not to be members of the Union who are set up to unify the activities, requirements and practices which carry out this category of physicians. For al. 2 I propose that it be dismissed as a compromise between the motives of the applicant, the respected professor. Stankov, and the acute objections of the Union of veterinarians, so please suggest it. I'm also proposing to Professor. Stankov to accept this compromise so there is no tension in the guild that you cook and are a community.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. - What's the line? There are no lines. If you'd like to make a statement, please, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I take occasion from the words of Mr. Bojinov. I accept his offer, al. 2 to drop as a compromise, but I would like to make some clarification. There is indeed a sharp reaction from the Union of Bulgarian veterinarians, and the reaction is that we offer a newer status, something different to university veterinary clinics. And I believe that all MPs should be convinced of the rightness of this because there is no sign of equality between university veterinary clinics and private practitioners. There are very serious considerations for this. First, veterinary clinics, university clinics are public government property. They're state-owned. There are professors working there who are of state services. Private practitioners are sole traders. The other is a different subject of activity. Private practitioners engage in medical and diagnostic activities. This is their primary purpose and for the most part they deal not even with productive animals, but with pets, while university hospitals have different status. This status is in the first place a study activity, then a research activity, and from then on a diagnostic and healing one. There are labs built. The Thracian University is the first in the country to receive European accreditation, so I do not accept the opposition of the President of the Bulgarian Veterinary Union Dr. Tsvetkov. It is not consistent, it is not well-founded enough. But because of what Mr. Bozhinoff offers, because no wonder, it may be necessary to deprive some of our teachers, who practice private practice, not to be able to work in clinics, I accept this para. 2 to be withdrawn, but everything else, I think should not be taken literally as presented. Thank you for your attention and I think that university veterinary clinics should receive their support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u167	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. You can't withdraw. There is a text adopted by the Commission in which this paragraph appears, so the House will decide whether to accept it or not. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. First, I shall vote on the proposal in the form of an editorial one made by the parliamentary tribune for Paragraph 13 of the Commission report, which shall be part of paragraphs 11 to 16, which shall be transformed by § 10 by importer. I shall put to the vote the version made in § 13 on the Commission report. The proposal was made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Tsveta Karayancheva. Vote 72 MPs: 69, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the National Representative Georgi Bozhinov for the removal of para. 2 c § 18, which was created on a proposal from the Commission. We are voting for a proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Bojinov on the proposed text by the Commission for a new § 18 in its report. 70 MPs voted: 12, against 29, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 11 to 22, including on the Commission report, together with the editorial proposal adopted under § 13, by the MP Tsveta Karayancheva. We are voting paragraphs 11 to 22 on the Commission report. Vote 74 MPs: 69, none, abstention 5. Now we return to § 10 there is a partially unsupported proposal by the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova. 2. We are voting for a proposal by the MP Svetla Bachvarova in its unsupported part in § 10, namely that of the Parliament. 2. Please vote. Vote 74 MPs: for 7, against 32, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. We are again voting on paragraphs 11 to 16 on the Commission report. Vote 73 MPs: 68, none, abstention 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u168	Proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: The Executive Director of BABBH shall, by order, designate teams to confirm or reject any suspicion of the occurrence of diseases for which there is a risk of rapid and widespread spread or which result in significant economic losses. The teams act in the event of doubt. 2. The creation of para. 3: The requirements for the work of the teams under para. 2 shall be determined by the instructions of the Executive Director of BABBH. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4. Paragraph 15? a proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. Article 118 is amended as follows: Art. 118. (1) The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall draw up a programme for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases and (2) The program under para. 1 shall cover a period of three years, and shall be developed and submitted to the Minister for Agriculture and Food for approval by 31 July of the year preceding the period for which the programme will be applied. (3) The program under para. 1 shall be approved by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture and Food until 31 October of the year of its establishment and shall contain: 1. a list of the diseases against which BABBH carries out measures for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases, and the eradication of animal diseases; 2. the species and number of animals to which the measures provided for therein apply; 3. the types of measures under point 3. 1, the schemes for their implementation and the deadlines for their implementation; 4. the necessary means for its implementation. (4) The program under para. 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. (5) The owners, respectively the users of the establishments shall establish an organisation and assist the veterinarians in implementing the measures under the programme under para. 1. (6) When any of the measures under the programme under para. 1 is not executed due to violation of para. 5, The Director of the ODBH shall inform the relevant Regional Directorate of the State Fund (7) State and local authorities shall cooperate in accordance with their competence to implement the measures under the programme under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 25. Under Paragraph 17, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the paragraph which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Art. 121 is amended as follows: Art. 121. The programme under art. 118, para. 1 may, where necessary, be amended and supplemented in accordance with its approval, specifying the additional means for its implementation. The Commission proposes to create a new § 27: "The Bible says: Art. 123 is repealed. Under § 18, there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 132 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the pre-supplier (s) shall be replaced by the users of the facilities with the "supplier'; (b) c. 10 words for the implementation of measures under the programmes for the surveillance and eradication of animal diseases and of the state preventive programme of their animals shall be replaced by the support for the implementation of the measures under the programme for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases and the programme for the prevention, control and eradication of animal diseases; (c) c. 11 the words "the surveillance and eradication of animal diseases and the state health programme' are replaced by "the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases'; (d) c. 12 point (b) is amended as follows: (b) the means of official identification which are damaged, for scrapping and which are available in the owner, respectively the owner of the establishment upon cessation of its activity, for destruction and reporting in the Integrated Information System of BABM; (e) point 15 is amended as follows: ..15. transmit to an object under art. 259, para. 1 or 2 dead animals, their passports and animal by-products; in cases where dead animals are disposed of outside an object under art. 259, para. 1 shall transmit their passports to the official veterinarian concerned for which a protocol is drawn up; (f) c. 19 the words supplied the events under the state prevention programme are replaced by the measures implemented under the programme for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases and the programme for the prevention, control and eradication of animal diseases; (g) create a t. 24: It's 24 o'clock. immediately notify the veterinarian serving the establishment and the official animal health veterinarian responsible for the municipality concerned, in case of deterioration of the health of animals at the establishment. 2. In para. 2 after the number..13.............................................................................................. 39, para. 2, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. In para. 3, p. 1: (a) the point (s) is amended as follows: s) cattle by passport pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1760/2000 by an official veterinarian; (b) a new point (b) is created: (b) equidae by passport pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2015/262; where the issuing authority is not BABBH, the passport shall be certified by an official veterinarian; the Executive Director of BABBH shall grant and revoke the authority to issue a passport to the other issuing authorities under the conditions of Regulation (EU) 2015/262; (c) the current letter "b" shall become a letter "in" (in). 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The persons referred to in paragraph 4 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 provide to the official veterinarian controlling the object a copy of the document under para. 3, p. 1 letter (s) (i.e. point (b) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013) 2 within three days of its issuance. Proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in § 69, 71, 95 and 97. The Commission proposes to create a new § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 133 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 after the words "al." 1 and 2. The services referred to in Article 1 and 2 shall be added. 259. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 the words "State preventive programme and programmes for the surveillance and eradication of animal diseases' shall be replaced by the "Support for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases'; Proposal of the MP Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 30: 30. Article 137c is amended as follows: Art. 137c. Where by 31 October the owners or users of sites registered under art. 137, or owners of animals kept for private purposes only, have not entered into a contract in accordance with art. Art. 137a, respectively 137b, BBC in agreement with the Director of the relevant ODBH shall designate a veterinarian to handle the contracts. According to § 19 there is a proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 138 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: In the case of infringements under para. 1, t. 2 found in animals from which raw materials and foodstuffs are derived which have led to an immediate health hazard for humans or animals, the Director of the ODBH shall issue an order which shall also include an order for the killing of animals on site and a guidance for disposal at an establishment for the disposal of animal by-products. 2. They're creating an al. 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7: The death shall be carried out in the presence of a committee designated by the order under para. 2, in the composition of which the registered veterinarian shall also be included, having entered into a contract under art. Art. 137a or art. 137b. (4) For the execution of the killing, the Commission shall draw up a report by model. (5) The Commission under para. 3 carry out the transfer of carcasses to an establishment for disposal of animal by-products. (6) The Director of the ODBH shall inform the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in writing within 7 days of the revocation of the certificate. (7) The Executive Director of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences shall send written information to the State Fund on the nullification of the certificate. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 8 and the second sentence is created in it: the appeal does not stop the execution. According to § 20, there is a proposal of the MP Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 32: In Article 32, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 139 para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." the cultivation, movement or transport of animals not officially identified and of animals not subject to the measures provided for in the programme for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases and. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 after the word "removement', the "removement' shall be added. 3. A t is created. 3a: 3a. the placing of animals outside the establishment without an escort (owner or keeper), except where the animals are situated in enclosed pastures; 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 the words "the State's Management Programme" shall be replaced by "the Centre for the Prevention, Supervision, Control and Elimination of Animal Diseases" and "the Centre for the Prevention, Supervision and Elimination of Animal Diseases."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u169	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova under § 14, not supported by the Commission. Vote 72 MPs: 5 against 22, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 23 to 32, including on the Commission report, with paragraphs 27, 29 and 30 being new, with their respective content on the report. Please vote on paragraphs 23 to 32 including the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 5. Paragraphs 23 to 32, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u170	Paragraph 21 "The proposal of the MPs Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: In § 21, new content of art. 139a, para. 1, and the expression.. 1, 2.................................................................................................................................................................................. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission does not support the proposal In § 21 concerning Art. 139a para. 1 is amended as follows: In the event of infringement under art. 139 para. 1, t. 1, 2, 4 "9 official veterinarians shall immediately notify the Director of the relevant ODBH in writing, who shall issue an order on a model for the imposition of a monetary penalty and, in case of repeated infringement, the withdrawal of the animals for the benefit of the State or their killing on site and their disposal at an establishment for disposal of animal by-products.' Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Bozhinov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139a para. 1 is amended as In the event of infringements under art. 139 para. 1, t. 1, 2, 4-9 found in animals from which raw materials and foodstuffs are derived, official veterinarians shall immediately notify the Director of the relevant ODBH in writing, who shall issue an order on a model for the withdrawal of animals for the benefit of the State, killing them on site and directing them for disposal in an establishment or plant for the disposal of animal by-products.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u171	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u172	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Paragraph 21 by importer shall deal with cases where infringements under art. 139 and the corresponding paragraphs and points. The importer suggests that the relevant Director of the Regional Directorate of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency should have two options of action when such an infringement is detected. One is to issue an order and those animals should be nationalised or directed to be disposed of by killing. Isn't that right, Professor? There was a very interesting and lengthy debate in the Commission whether the Union should be...................................................... and nationalise, and destroy or depending on the situation and competence of the director concerned. They're nationalized, and if they're not dangerous, they're ordered, otherwise they're destroyed. My proposal, which the Commission adopted, was to drop the Union or the Union, and we placed the comma, and it was communal that the competent authority, if you accept my proposal,........................... and nationalizes the animals, and destroys them without being able to assess in this case how serious the danger is and whether these animals can, if they do not endanger people's health and so on, be used. Then I thanked them for accepting my offer. We have now had talks with colleagues from the Commission from GERB and other colleagues. Mr. Chairman, I am prepared to withdraw my proposal, which led to this amendment, and to remain the text of the importer, which is better and enables the competent authority to assess. I see that colleagues from GERB admire me and I propose that we vote on it so that we do not complicate the situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u173	If the text of the Commission is not adopted, what you are proposing will happen. Otherwise, you can't withdraw it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u174	We don't accept the Commission, we accept the applicant, that's what I propose.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u175	There is no way you can propose this in a vote if the House does not accept it, then we will move to the vote the text of the importer. Do you have any lines? Statements? Here you go, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u176	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! The contents of this proposal were told. I will not repeat Mr. Bojinov's words, but I insist that my proposal be taken into consideration. My suggestion is this: I do not agree with the killing of animals on the ground and the targeting of them for disposal. I think it's a very wrong thing to do. We turn people against ourselves, constantly calling from all over the country. Killing me isn't the answer. That is why my proposal is first the regional director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to make a warning and then impose a monetary penalty. In the meantime, honourable Members, veterinarians must engage and clarify the animal health status. If animals are in good health, they can be redirected, provided to the State. In the Commission, we argued whether there was an institution to take these animals. I can tell you that there is such an institution. I can refer to Thracian University as an example because we are constantly looking for patients for veterinary medicine. They can be targeted at small farms, but to start destroying animals on site, I think it is not appropriate. If there is already a deviation in the health condition, then this sanction should be imposed in any case. I would like to make it clear that this proposal concerns mostly small farms and so-called backyard farms, where people have several animals. The missionaries do not have the opportunity to enter into contracts, register them, identify them, and these animals must be destroyed. Tradition has been such for years these animals have been used by humans, and I think it will not be a proper and fair solution. I therefore insist that the procedure be applied: a warning, a monetary penalty, and then a state of health. If they are a healthy seizure in favour of the State, if they are not a seizure. This is about animals that are grown, those that are transported and moved. If they get in the way, what does that mean? In place, will they be destroyed on the road? There are some things that are disturbing, and I therefore insist that my proposal be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u177	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. For speech Prof. Bachvarova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, for the second time since we adopted § 31, we are in the hypothesis that we are killing animals without having sufficient reason. In § 31, we kill animals in doubt. Now we say if they are transported and therefore do not have all the attributes when transporting, we decide that we must kill them again. These are farm animals that require extremely much care. That there is a violation to apply the final penalty is something extremely harmful. Professor's proposal. Stankov is much more reasonable in terms of having a step. First, you find out whether these animals have a positive or a good status, whether they correspond, or whether they have ear tags that are lost or not, you make the relevant proposal to establish these facts and only then you switch to confiscation. I agree with him that the majority of those affected will be small farms. I have to tell you that a significant part of the animals in Bulgaria over 40% are in these small farms. This means that we create prerequisites to make them removed at all from the lists of actions. My offer, which is also not accepted. This penalty shall be imposed in any event, including for removing individual ear tags. Because the ear mark is lost in some form, we take the animals and then we kill them. Agree, there can be no such sanctions for livestock farmers, because in this way you are taking away any opportunity for business and development. Twice in this Law, animals are killed without sufficient grounds, whatever they may be. If there is a problem with administration or with any disease, farmers or farmers are not to blame because there are also state authorities. They should also be held accountable. But the easiest thing is for us to decide that we have to kill the animals so we don't have any problems from now on. I'm in favour of prof. Stankov in terms of creating a procedure that enables these animals to remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u179	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. There are no other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 76 MPs: 17 against 33, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ivan Stankov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 16 against 2, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the generally supported text of the importer, edited by the Commission for § 21, which in the Commission's report becomes § 33. Vote 82 MPs: 65 against 5, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. Do you want some kind of procedure or not? [[Noise and lines.]] If anyone wants to?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u180	Honourable President, I request a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u181	You're asking for a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u182	Yeah. Mrs. Damyanova couldn't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-02.u183	Revoting procedure. Please vote. Vote 84 MPs: 67 against 6, abstention 11. The text hasn't been accepted. I shall put to the vote § 21 by importer, which shall become § 33 if adopted, in the Commission's report. Vote 85 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 9. Paragraph 21 by importer is adopted and becomes Paragraph 33 by the Commission report. It's 18.02. We've run out of time, definitely for today. Tomorrow we continue with a regular meeting at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
