ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing today with the second vote of the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. I recall that on yesterday's day of the second vote were adopted: the title and from art. 1 to Art. 1 Article 10 including, reported. 11 and the proposals to him, there was a statement made by Mr. Metodi Andreev, as an importer of an unsupported speech, and we are in a mode of debate under art. 11. To make a statement there is Mr. Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I come out to speak, why the proposal made by Mr. Andreev should not be accepted, and I will also tell you what is in the Commission. Mr. Andreev has made a complex calculation of the type of: We divide 100 BGN. At three times 50 and we say to whom they will reach the most, I mean, we take from three special services the money and distribute it among them. The donor in this case must be the State Agency for Industrial Operations. Just to explain to colleagues this is the office that deals with external surveillance and in case there are texts taken, recorded, downloaded to a technical medium to be fit for evidence of the proceedings. We are talking about elements of national security that must be involved, even when they are crimes of a very serious nature, that is to say, they are required for more than five years in order to be able to be implemented. What's the target? We'll take them from one office and give them to the other office. The problem, however, is that this And in fact, if we take the money from them and give it to the other departments the next day, when they start doing their work, they will have to pay the first office for the service so done. Or the Ministry of Interior comes with corresponding documents to carry out such an observation, apart from the documents currently required by law, and we need to make an observation of this and this object, will also have to implement a plan-account: it will cost us just how much you are and we are obliged to pay it. If we're going to get money out of an agency right now to give it to another agency, and the next day she's going to have to return it to the first agency, paying for the service, just spinning some money between the agencies and carrying out a major bureaucratic activity that will not help anyone and will make it difficult for everyone. The order established so far to produce only documents that are followed for the implementation of these CRCs is sufficient guarantee that the money remains in the departments and is used as intended. Regardless of who is the applicant of the material, the State Agency of Technical Operations shall carry out the volume of tasks entrusted only with the judgment. They shall be submitted to the competent authorities in order to assess whether evidence means are fit and the amount of expenditure incurred on such evidence collected is irrelevant to the applicant agencies. So this text I propose not to be accepted, that the money be left in the way that it is distributed between these special services, because otherwise we will create bureaucracy and competition which one should, or should have, pay for the work done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u3	First line Mr. Metodi Andreyev, second line Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! This was an extremely manipulative statement by a man who himself says that he originated in a communist family. So I'll explain what this is about. It's not just about taking some money from the DATO and giving it to some agency, it's about taking money from the DATO and giving it to the Military Intelligence and Military Information. First of all, "Military information" works outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and there are particularly sensitive sources, namely from where the emigrant flow is from. And for the DATO, what we say is that it is fighting serious crime. Let's give them a result of their work, let's see by giving them 48 million. lv. a budget for 2017, what have they returned to the state as revenue? Because the military information, which has a building, construction and works, as in this case there was a film "Toplo" under such conditions these people work, i.e. Military information, which must protect our national security, has 44 million. lv. budget! That's what's manipulative! We don't give them to any others, we give them to exactly that service that guarantees our national security, and not fills with information different librarian and other saray circles!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u5	Mr. Atanasov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u6	Thank you, Madam President. I don't mean to be rude, but apparently Mr. Revisor's childhood dream was to be a security officer, but it didn't happen. It's just that it's not good for a person to speak out on a subject he doesn't understand. By the way, the security sector is heavily underfunded and unloved by the finance minister, who was somewhere here and out. This is a big problem for the budget balance. In general, the country's security sector is heavily unfunded as a whole. It is unacceptable for our intelligence services to work with such a scarceness! Yesterday, certain numbers were drawn here, and you must have heard what they were. But specifically for the date in question, the State Agency for Industrial Operations. When this agency consisted of two services that were in the Ministry of Interior, their total budget was 24,000. BGN, and now the collected services at the DATO are 48 million. Tell me, what's this money for? By the way, there are very serious scandals in this secret service. There presidents with their entourage in the administration every month make teambuildings in the most expensive hotels in Bulgaria and have no money for fuel for the tracking cars. Not to mention the cadre policy that mainly people from Velingrad were appointed there to do follow-up in Sofia, and they do not know the streets in Sofia. And I'll tell you one last time. I had said it once in this Chamber and a complete silence everywhere under the Special Intelligence Means Act, the President of the DATO was appointed by decree of the President on a proposal from the government. Today's President "one and a half years after the Law has been amended, there is no decree for appointment! Do you realize that all the special intelligence tools that apply with this man's signature are illegal? But this is all thanks to Mr. Boyko Borisov, because the head of the DATO was a student who turned out not to be true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u7	Third line? A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I declare that my childhood dream wasn't to work in the special services like it wasn't to be a train driver who would then become head of the National Security Service. I declare that this was not a child's dream either. [[Radio, laughter.]] Unlike many people who have graduated from police academies, others have only watched the film about them. Unlike many of whom our titles go with the years and were long before November 10th, others received them for 15 minutes after November 10th. And unlike many people who have been to D.I.A. and DOTI, even though financial revisions have dealt with other nonsense. I personally want to say that the budget must remain as it is, and what will result from the work of these services, the judiciary, which assess that the collected materials can, are fit or not fit for evidence. That's the small difference, but essential. The result of their work is judged by the judiciary, not by the political reasons or by the MPs and parliamentary groups here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u9	Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am referring to an unsupported proposal from the ABB Parliamentary Group concerning Section I It may be unacceptable as tradition, but the Ministry of Defense has already had 44 million revenue for several years. We propose that they be increased to fifty-two, because this stamina and internal carelessness for the army's fighting ability is already irritating. In any case, the Ministry of Defence has several companies in the field of economics, treatment, institutes that need to produce and fill in the revenue section. Second, in Section II in relation to expenditure. I abstained from voting in the first discussion of the bill, but in any case I dare say that restructuring does not solve the problems of fighting the army's ability, as a 78.8 million increase in the budget of the Armed Forces actually goes to cover the compulsory payments in the increase of 46 to 66 in the insurance contributions, as well as in the increase of the minimum wage and the Pension Fund. That is why here we offer the increase that you know and, most importantly, we know that the army is not filled with 5,500 people. This year is planned to be completed with 500 people, but the allocated funds in the budget give the opportunity to appoint no more than 200 "250 soldiers." It takes 11 million for 500 people to be equipped, stacked and provided with salaries. Finally, in terms of military VUMs. There's no army without command. If there are no commanders, it's a bunch of soldiers who can't solve battle tasks. This year the Military University adopted an increase in students from 260 planned to 160, but the transfer for their training was insufficient. The only good that we have done in this Chamber is in the Defence and Armed Forces Act, where we have decided very respectfully the status of future officers, that is, the acceptance of the students. So I plead this unsupported proposal to be reconsidered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u11	Any lines to Mr. Mihov? I won't. Any other MPs? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed, the vote is pending. I put to the vote Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal to increase the budget of the Military Information. The Commission does not support it. Vote 128 MPs: 21, Against 34, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Valeri Simeonov and a group for increasing costs, in fact he proposes a reduction from one place at the expense of increasing others. The Commission does not support it. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 126 MPs: 13 against 21, abstention 92. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Ms. Mariana Todorova and MPs from ABB. The Commission does not support it. They voted 118 MPs: 41, against 13, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 11 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 79, against 17, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u12	Under art. 12 has a proposal of the MP Metodi Andreyev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12, III, 1. is reduced by 4.298 million. BGN (the budget of the State Agency is being reduced. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 in Section "III." Budget Relations (Transfers) - (+/-) The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. in point.1. Budgetary relations with the central budget (+/-) 2. Create new points 3 and 3.1. with the following content: 3. Transfers from/to state enterprises and other persons included in the consolidated fiscal programme -5 000,0. 3.1 Transfers granted (-) (for State-owned enterprise The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u13	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 7, against 17, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Grozdan Karadjov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 3, against 25, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 12. Vote art. 12 on the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 69, against 13, abstention 14. Article 12 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u14	Article 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13 with the following editing of para. 4. In the costs under para. 1 resources are included for staff to increase the staff of the Registry Agency with eighteen posts to secure the functions assigned to it by law. The provisions of § 16, para. 1 and 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions to the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Administration do not apply when increasing the number of staff of the Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u15	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 13 and edited by the same, according to her report. Vote art. 13 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 63 against 14, abstention 18. Article 13 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u16	Under art. 14 has a proposal of the MPs Mariana Todorova and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the - II.............................................................................................. 1.1 "Personal" is the number "88 701.6" to be replaced by the number "96 701.6" is replaced by the following: - T. 1 "Current expenditures" (Current expenditures) is replaced by "Current expenditures" (Current expenditures) 1 115 138.9 "is replaced by "1 123 138.9" (Current expenditures). - T. 1.3 "Current transfers, benefits and aids to households" (the number "1 000 523,3") is replaced by "1 100 523,3" (the number "the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by "the number" = "the number" is replaced by "the number" = "the number" is replaced by "the number" = "the number" is replaced by "the number" is replaced by [[(The relevant amendments shall also be made in art. 14, para. 1, tab. 1, row 7, column 3, II 14, para. 1, tab. 1 row 8, branch 3 II 1 "Current expenditures" (the number "1 115 138,9") is replaced by the number "1 223 138,9" (the number "Current expenditures").]] The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u17	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u18	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! At this point, we make two proposals. The first is to increase the remuneration by 10% in the Employment Agency, the Social Assistance Agency and the General Labour Inspection. This year's increase is intended to be 5%, and we want it to be 10%, as these 8500 social workers are almost doomed to misery and can hardly carry out their duties. We fear that if their work continues to be devalued and undervalued, there will be no workers left in this system and it will be bled out. The second proposal we propose is to further allocate 100 million to municipalities for rethinking and raising social standards and hence social services. This includes a lot of things for children's homes, adult homes, social patronages, dining rooms for the poor, child support in a day centre for children with disabilities, and we want the maximum, the ceiling of the amount to have money for salaries, psychologists, logos and rehabilitators. If this amount is not granted, there will be a shortage of such staff and they will not be able to perform these services fully. That's why we're asking for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. For speech the people representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, personally I will support the proposal made by colleague Mariana Todorova and the group of ABB, as we have always had principle behavior when something is good and should be done yes, it should be supported. In fact, what the coworker said is that a large part of these individuals, especially the Labour Inspection, who have a controlling function, work for some ridiculously low remuneration, that is, they are absolutely demotivated and worse is that in this way they are stimulated to succumb to corrupt practices, which is worse. It is in this direction that I regret that today the Minister of Labour is absent from the meeting, but I would like to draw attention to you that there is an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Labour of the Republic of Bulgaria by 5 million. Six hundred thousand. BGN, i.e. we do not know the increase in the price of 5 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. Who is it really meant for? What part of the staff of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will be, so to speak, rewarded? Is this about an increase in pay or an increase in the state? I would like to remind you that on 7 November 2014 Borisov's government took office with the clear and firm statement here in this House that it will proceed to 15% reduction of the already dramatically bloated state administration. This is not only not so, but as we see, and this budget also provides for an increase in the cost of this item. At the same time, such important feathers, spoken of by colleague Mariana Todorova, somehow remain among themselves, and we expect these control bodies to carry out an extremely important activity in compliance with labour law, in preventing practices related to tax evasion, in insurance contributions. Because when you find that labour law is being violated, for example, in the direction of overtime, which is not accounted for, it is also tax evasion and insurance. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that an increase in capital expenditure by 1 million is envisaged. lv. About what? I would like to have information as to whether these capital expenditures will increase because it will create a normal and affordable environment for people with disabilities, as not once or twice I have indicated that there are agencies located in such places that a person with disabilities simply has no chance of going there and seeking help. I have pointed out to you not one or two examples, but I have no answer whether this money is for this, or then we will receive stencil responses from ministers that no money has been provided. This is precisely why we distribute the public funds to the Bulgarian people so that we do not have the common answer after this: "There is no money." The minister is gone, the chairman of the Budget Committee is easier to go around the studios and lie about paying pensions to people who don't have a day's insurance service without even bothering to read that there is no such legislation in the Social Security Code! [[Replications by MP Desislava Atanasova.]] I recommend that she read the articles in art. Art. 68, Art. 80 of the Social Security Code and with colleague Desislava Atanasova to stop spreading lies in the media, because there is no text in the Law that provides for the payment of pensions to such persons, at least to receive a minimum pension without having a single day of insurance service! That's how you lie! If they want to get a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any lines? I won't. Personal explanations? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MPs Mariana Todorova, Miho Mihov, Kiril Tsochev, Svetoslav Belemezov, Ivan Ivanov, Ivan Stankov, Lachezar Nikiforov, Petar Kadiev and Georgi Kuchukov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 44, Against 19, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 14. Vote art. 14 on the Commission report. They voted 110 MPs: for 73, against 14, abstention 23. Article 14 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u22	Under art. 15 A proposal from the MPs Sultanka Petrova, Iskren Veselinov, Boris Yachev, Petar Petrov and Krasimir Karakachanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: II. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled Eighty-seven thousand. lv. is replaced by 468 million. Eighty-seven thousand. lv. 1.1. The number 204 million. 709,1 thousand. lv. is replaced by 214 million. 709,1 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u23	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Sultanka Petrova, Iskren Veselinov, Boris Yachev, Petar Petrov and Krasimir Karakachanov, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u24	They voted 111 MPs: 12, against 25, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 15 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 110 MPs: for 76, against 5, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, by letter with letter. No AD-654 00 65-45 from 1 December 2016, registered earlier today, eight MPs, namely Rumen Gechev, Emil Dimitrov, Nikolay Alexandrov, Christian Mitev, Georgi Tarnovalyski, Korman Ismailov, Aliosman Imamov and Petar Chobanov on the grounds of art. 28, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, through me, require the President of the Budget and Finance Committee to convene an extraordinary meeting at the request of one third of the Commissioners on 1 December Point one. Preparation of an Additional Report on the Second Voting Report on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 on the proposals of the Commission under art. 16 and Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4. Motives are also applied. Therefore, I propose that we postpone the reporting and voting under art. 16 and move on, Mrs. Stoyanova. During the holidays at 11.30 you should call the Committee on Budget and Finance and when you are ready in this part, we will go back to voting art. 16 and Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4. I shall put to the vote the proposal to postpone the vote on art. 16 until the meeting of the Budget Committee. They voted 113 MPs: 112 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u25	Madam President, allow me to use the microphone and invite the members of the Budget Committee at 11.30 am to the Western Hall at the extraordinary meeting that you have just announced.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u26	We're moving on to art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u27	Article 17. Proposal by the MP Slavcho Atanasov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: (a) In column 2, in row II, the number (b) In column 2, in row II. 1.2 the number..14 500,0.. to be replaced by.25 (c) In column 2, in row II. 1.2.1 the number..13 900,0. to be replaced by.23 900,0. (d) In column 2, in row III, the number (e) In column 2, para. 2 t. 1 number s 17 701,8s to be replaced by.22 701,8s. (g) In column 2, para. 2 t. 2 the number s "134 728.4" to be replaced by the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments shall be made: (a) In para. 1, Section II, - replace the number..157 143.9..159 - in t. 2 "Capital expenditures" (the number "5 683,7") to be replaced by "7 683,7" (the number). (b) In para. 2: - T. 1 "Politicals in the field of protection of the movable and immovable cultural heritage" (the number "S17 701,8") to be replaced by "Save 19 701,8"; - in order "Everything's going to be replaced by "159 143,9'. To increase the amount of capital expenditure in the budget of the Ministry of Culture by 2 million. lv. in order to build a memorial complex and museum of the victims of totalitarianism on the island of Persin. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u28	People's representative Slavcho Atanasov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! In fact, this is the second proposal from me and the Ministry of Culture, because the Ministry with the Culture and Media Commission asked the Finance Ministry for 2017 for a budget of 56 million. Unfortunately, the Treasury Department has not provided any of this request. I would like to dispel a speculation, because in parliament it is constantly said that the Finance Ministry gives 14 million extra for 2017 for the Ministry of Culture. Colleagues, I would like to make a very important clarification about 11 million are a deficit of the Ministry of Culture, and the other 3 million are given to schools that are at the Cultural Ministry. In fact, if we have to use a jargon football language, the result is 0:0. That is, after the Ministry has covered its deficit of 11 million after paying the three million to the Schools of the Ministry of Culture, which are, notice, imperative in the Law, they cannot not be given, in practice for culture in the country for 2017 nothing more than 2016. This proposal we are making, I repeat, together with the Ministry of Culture, as was yesterday with Levski, is for the following: for digitalization, colleagues, something extremely important to the monuments of culture of national, regional and local importance. Something that is mandatory for us because with the amendment to the 2016 Cultural Heritage Act, colleagues, if you remember, we voted that this digitalization should be mandatory. I mean, the law already has it as our obligation. On top of that, we say the e-government should enter, and the Ministry of Culture is part of it. There's no way the electronic government can get in if this digitalization doesn't work. Here we want, together with the Ministry of Culture, 5 million and another 3 million. BGN, colleagues we want for the development of contemporary culture, especially for the support of the Fund of Culture, because this year only 400 thousand are foreseen. lv. in it, and he is responsible, colleagues, for 12 cultural programs. For each programme are foreseen for a whole year only 33 thousand. lv. That's what the $3 million is for. Colleagues, to pay attention to here for a few days, we distribute billions, I repeat, billions, hundreds of millions! Well, should we not increase the culture budget by 8 million now? lv.? It's really embarrassing, it's just embarrassing if we don't support him. Unfortunately, the Budget and Finance Committee rejected this proposal, although it is in union and supported by the Ministry of Culture. I repeat, colleagues, we are talking about 8 million. lv.! Please, let's give it to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. First line.. People's representative Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u31	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Atanasov, I support your proposal, but my reply is in addition, because in my opinion some of the funds you propose to increase the budget of the Ministry of Culture should also go to the activities of the Chitalishtes. Especially after the upcoming increase in the minimum wage many of the people who work there will actually work as low-qualified employees, and some of them have significant qualifications. In addition, it is necessary that the Chitalishtes can fill out their funds, digital and so on. At the moment, some of them are based on the fact that the municipalities are taking over their maintenance for heating, for other costs and not for the activity they need to carry out. If they do not do this as an extra effort, their activity becomes problematic. Including the problems I'm talking about, there are also problems in Plovdiv. You should know them and in many Bulgarian municipalities. By supporting your proposal, I believe that the funds, although not very many, should be distributed more evenly so that these outbreaks of Bulgarian spirituality can continue to exist and develop their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u32	Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Atanasov, I don't agree with you at all. Do you realize that if you want that money for culture, you're gonna ruin the country?! You'll ruin the budget, the budget framework! Do you even realize here that the capacity of the Budget Committee with a level of accountant, leading a material account, can't even imagine what culture means?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u34	Mr. Bayraktarov, let's not be offended by MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u35	I'm replicating my colleague Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u36	Even in the form of a replica, it is unacceptable to offend MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u37	I didn't insult anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u38	Members of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u39	Who have I offended? Being an accountant, leading a material account, it's not an insult, I'm sorry. I just want to explain to my colleague Slavcho Atanasov that they cannot imagine that culture is something that, first, brings spirituality; secondly, is a source of a lot of revenue when you are able to use culture, even as a product in tourism! Therefore, it will be explained to you that the goals of ruining the budget, ruining the macrogram, battling the state, because you want some awful lot of 10 million. Too bad we couldn't fight for 2 million for Levski. But this is, this is the material, as a great prime minister used to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u40	Third line? Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u41	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Yes, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, you are very right, and this money was specifically provided for the Chitalishtes in the draft budget of the Ministry of Culture and the Committee on Culture and Media and I will even tell you the figure for the Chitalishtes were provided for 14 million. BGN, only, as I mentioned in my first speech, they were largely cut down by the Ministry of Finance. In response to Mr. Bayraktarov: Mr. Bayraktarov, I will answer you with the following case. The year is the winter of 1941. Germany has conquered all of Europe and Stalin is still an ally of Germany. Then Churchill comes to his ministers and they say: Mr Churchill, any minute the Germans will invade the island! Let's give money to arm! Churchill asked them, "Where, gentlemen, do you propose we take this money?" Then his ministers say, well, Minister, from culture. Then Churchill replied: "If I give the money to the culture, there will be no more war to fight for. England is gone. The Germans better come! That's my answer, Mr. Bayraktarov. For reference, these are Eden's memories, then British Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u42	Any other MPs for speeches? Mr. Zelenogorski was first, then Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u43	Madam President, honourable Members! My proposal is for changes in the budget of the Ministry of Culture by proposing in art. In addition, the Commission notes that the Commission considers that there is a need for State aid in the form of State aid to be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of 683 thousand. lv. 7 million. 683 thousand. lv. specifically in policy on the protection of movable and immovable cultural heritage. In fact, the idea is to increase the cost by 2 million in order to build a Memorial complex and museum of the victims of totalitarianism on the island of Persin in Belene. I know that this topic excites Bulgarian society very much. I know that 27 years we all talk about how this is one of the most dramatic pages in Bulgarian history, one black page, tens of thousands are subjected to terror and destruction. Perhaps this excites not only Bulgaria and the European and world society, but it turns out that 27 years after 10 November in Bulgaria nothing has been done to read this really black page. In these countries we are seeking, there are numerous memorials in which the truth is preserved about this spiritual and physical terrorization and destruction of tens of thousands of people. It's where children are taken to see what happened and never to happen again. Unfortunately, in Bulgaria the easiest way is to say: give instead of reading this page in Bulgarian history, tearing it off, it did not exist, tens of thousands have not been killed, hundreds of thousands have not been terrorized in prisons. I don't want to tell you that story about the bodies of those killed on Persin Island and how the pigs were fed to them. I'm sorry, but I'm turning to your conscience, it's one hundred percent of the state budget. Let's make it 27 years after 10 November to build a memorial complex in one of the Bulgarian concentration camps the most evil, on the island of Persin in Belene and really make sure that Bulgarian society never returns to such dark pages. So we're probably gonna break the macrogram again, but I don't want to break the minds of people who think it's a moral and physical downfall that should never be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u44	Any lines to Mr. Zelenogorski? The first is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, I do not know, perhaps I should state in this line and conflict of interest, since my grandfather, whom I bear the name, has served three years in this prison. Colleague Zelenogorski, I will support your proposal, but the line that I want to make is very simple and is spoken by the great Bulgarian poet Hristo Botev: "Toughly, brothers, is lived among fools misunderstood.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u46	Second line? I won't. It's a hole. Mr. Stanislav Stanilov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u47	Madam President, honourable Members! In a neoliberal scheme of the economy there can be no money for culture for the simple reason that in the liberal scheme itself the money spent must carry money. You don't put money on anything. That's why there's no money for fundamental science, as I've already said, and I've said it before. That's why there's no money for culture. Part of culture is the market. However, in a small country where the cultural market, especially books, musical works and so on, because it is related to the language, the market is short and cannot be obtained. Then the peoples who have small countries, the few peoples, usually collect a certain kind of resource and support artists in this regard. This was done and done before World War II and in communism after World War II. And Vazov was appointed to the People's Library, and Peyo Yavorov was appointed as director of the National Theatre and others were, so to speak, at such a crib as they were then expressed. Not to mention communism, when all the great writers were in a nursery somewhere. Now we don't want to give that kind of money to culture in general. The percentage of gross domestic product is the lowest of the gross domestic product of other European countries. Is it true that they have more money in this structure than the percentage? If it is small gross domestic product, it will be small and the percentage. However, we do not want to do that either. For this reason I am even desperate because 20 and how many years have already passed, in the same way we treat culture, and I am 11 years in the National Assembly, I speak the same words and the same attitude. There's no doubt about that. For culture, money can only be increased by funding, and if the cultural minister managed to squeal from the finance minister, which the former minister of this government did mainly for the performing arts, and for the other things, when I went to him, many times he would say to me: go there to the guy where he gives the money. I go to Vladislav Goranov or Simeon Djankov and they shrug and so on. These 8 million, which we are talking about, are nothing compared to the state budget and can safely be voted and found, but I do not see much desire in this House for this. That's why we're in this situation! Before I go down, I'll tell you one thing. The Hungarian government between the two world wars makes an experiment with its budget by betting 3% of it each year for culture......................then no domestic product was measured. And the amazing thing is that no one has explained the phenomenon, which is the fact that at the end, before World War II, suddenly for some reason, very strong economic growth begins. They claim that this is the reason why the money is invested in culture. I can't tell you anything more. I have no desire to argue with anyone. Those are the facts! The rest, as the poet said, is...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u48	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Metodi Andreyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We are talking about an extremely timely proposal made by Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski. We're talking about two million. lv. for the memory of the Bulgarian state! All of us here like to brag and during election campaigns meet with the repressed. But right now, in this vote, we will see how sincere we have been in these meetings. Because Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union, I stress, the only one from the Eastern bloc that has no monument, there is no place for the Bulgarians to see what was the time of the concentration camps of the communist regime! There's no place for people to go and worship in a normal way! I was last year, and I saw the conditions under which the pilgrimage was made. Two million leva are a small sum for the enormous sufferings of these people who now support and vote for us, and need to appreciate their sacrifice, their grief and the Bulgarians to know that such a thing should never happen again. Now, in this vote, we will see how many real Democrats in this Parliament are and how many of us in the brains are put in five rays! I call on you two million levs for a memory that has been swept under the carpet so far! I also call on my colleagues from GERB to support it, because this is indeed a sign that we are aware of what we have been sent here, and we remember the history of Bulgaria!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u50	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. The People's Representative Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Andreev, you can find arguments for the proposed proposal. However, it has two drawbacks. One is that, on a regular basis, different political formations will offer memorial signs for victims who have been given in different political periods because these people have stood up for certain ideas, political views and positions. The second reason why, in my opinion, the MPs from GERB cannot support this proposal is that they yesterday, when they proposed to be separated two million to mark Vasil Levski's anniversary, which is a symbol of consistency, of struggle and martyrdom, did not give them, and now you are proposing to vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u52	You know where the money is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u53	No, no. It's a matter of consistency. The rejection of yesterday's proposal makes it impossible, with an argument for the stronger ground, the support of this proposal proposed by the Reformation bloc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Any other lines? I won't. It's a hole. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! No wonder Mr. Yanaki Stoilov has that opinion. I would be surprised if we GERB did not support this point. That's what I'd be surprised at. As for the two million levs for the celebration of Levski, I personally supported it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u56	To speak, the public representative Julian Angelov...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u57	Are you all gonna line up?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u58	I think it's not forbidden to speak, Mrs. Stoyanova. So your remark is not appropriate at all. Mr. Chairman, please make a comment to Mrs. Stoyanova for ordering who should speak and who should not in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u59	You have the floor, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from the Patriotic Front will support Mr. Zelenogorski's proposal because we believe that the memory of all victims, no matter what period and in which regime, should be marked, honored and also preserved to the knowledge of future generations, so that they can draw conclusions from various errors of different Bulgarian regimes. I think that the debate on this proposal has again been slightly shifted from both left and right from the point of view of this communism. We should not have this debate, we should have the debate that it is useful in Bulgaria to keep and honor historical memory no matter what historical period it is from. We from the Patriotic Front will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u61	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u62	My fellow Members, I take the floor to say a few facts, and I think that when you hear them, there will be no need for further comment. First, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov mentioned yesterday and the celebrations of Levski. I mean, not that we didn't give the two million for the celebrations of Levski on the contrary, these two million, and perhaps more, will be given after there is a detailed plan-account and the money is provided in the central budget. It's the same scheme for the memorial in question that we're talking about here. If there is a plan-account, if there is a reasoned proposal, a reasoned, reasoned proposal, such amounts can be allocated, I say again, from the central budget. Here in this room, through the budgets of the respective ministries, we cannot plan capital expenditure for monuments. As for culture, I'll tell you a few numbers. The budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2017 is 16 million. lv. more than the 2016 budget. This is almost a 20% increase in the budget. I don't know if another ministry has such an increase in the budget or if somewhere else there is such an increase in the budget. [[Applause from GERB.]] Apart from that, 6 million galleries are given to the public-delegated activities through the municipalities for libraries, museums, galleries. lv. additionally. Apart from this, a million and six hundred leva are given additional growth for the Chitalishtes.. again during the activities delegated by the state. Apart from that, half a million are through the delegated activities for indoor museums. Apart from that, there are additional numbers subsidised from the delegated budget "80" for the Chitalishtes, 67 for the museums you think that as additional subsidised numbers are also in the subsidy for the activities delegated by the State. I can list more of you. And this is all about the culture that the importer of this proposal is talking about here. I understand you need more money. There is no sphere in this country that doesn't want more money to develop. All spheres this year received additional funds and nevertheless they again believe that this is small. I think that's a little bit, too. Everything, however, happens with the development of the economy. Everything happens with the extra passes and, when they have them, as they were in 2016, and are planned in 2017, there will be growth, but there will be growth for everyone, balanced. We can't satisfy everyone at maximum. That's not gonna happen! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u63	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. First line "Slavcho Atanasov," second line "Niden Zelenogorski," third line "Dimitar Bajraktarov."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mrs. Stoyanova, why do I think you're using Goebbels' ideology: A lie repeated a hundred times becomes true?! I'm gonna tell you right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u65	Mr. Chairman, please make a note!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u66	Why a remark? I don't see what I've done to offend you.! I'll tell you, I'll remind you again and I'll repeat it everywhere: there's no increase in money for culture! Culture has 11 million deficits! Repeat: deficit! As soon as the money arrives at the Ministry of Culture, the first thing that will be done is to pay off this deficit. Second, Mrs. Stoyanova. Do you know how many Chitalishtes in Bulgaria and these sums you give them? Three thousand six hundred twenty-eight Chitalishtes are in Bulgaria! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Don't interrupt me if you want, take attitude. I'll tell you something else. It takes 2 million to repair Kolyo Ficheto's bridge. lv. When the bridge falls, Mrs. Stoyanova, we will look for you, not the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u67	Second line.. People's representative Nayden Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u68	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova, colleagues! I'm trying not to get excited. Twenty-seven years we lie to people in the same way: we will do it, we will bet them, we will wait for a draft report, it will happen......................... nothing has been done for the memory of the killed and repressed tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians. Do you realize how many heirs these people have?! It's not about who supports who in an election. The point is, it's a national memory. There can be no memorial in Bulgaria, in the country where there is the worst repression after Stalin. It's just absurd! Twenty-seven years! [[Noise in the room.]] Mrs. Stoyanova doesn't care what I say to her. I told her yesterday, and her attitude towards what I said was shocking to me. I don't want to comment on it. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u69	Third line.. People's representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam President of the Budget Committee, you just said how you can't. I would like to draw attention to what you have given the MPs to make it clear to them, as well as to the broad Bulgarian public. Mrs. Chairman of the Budget Committee, in Bulgaria there are 3600 Bulgarian employees still, fortunately, Chitalishtes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u71	It's not that much!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u72	You have given, as you put it, I say you do, because it is understood that you give the money - 400 BGN. at a community center. Now, notice, colleagues, in these 400 leva. The minimum wage increase is not even foreseen. That's not even what's supposed to happen! So these people aren't even given money to pay the electricity a month, but the water for this community center. The sad thing is that these Chitalishtes are mainly supported by the activities of still living Bulgarian pensioners and people like us who help with what we can, but not by people like you who are doing everything you can to shut down this activity, because it is easier to say: "You can't, we will ruin the macrogram, we will ruin the country! Well, if the Bulgarian community center is capable of ruining the country, it must have been ruined long ago! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u73	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mrs. Stoyanova, come on in for your coat. [[Noise and lines.]] Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u74	In their inherent populist style, Mr. Bajraktarov said, and Mr. Pre-speaker, I forgot who he was. Goebbels propaganda by repeating a lie several times is not my prerogative, gentlemen, but rather your parliamentary group. Because again from this tribune, you used this kind of propaganda. I'm like a simple accountant. [[Field lines]] I only refer to figures and figures written in the budget and in its applications. I quoted them very accurately. For your attack that the minimum wages have not been secured, this is not true. This is precisely the other part of the subsidies delegated by the state to municipalities because you know that all these museums, galleries and libraries are state activities delegated to municipalities. [[Noise and lines from PF.]] So I don't know whose lie it is. [[strong applause from GERB]] , repeated repeatedly, but not mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u75	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Slavcho Atanasov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 117 MPs: 52, Against 19, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Nayden Zelenogorski, which is not supported by the Commission. [[National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov wants the floor for a revoting procedure.]] We have voting mode. We are voting on a proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. [[Noise and lines from PF.]] Take your seats! Mr. Bayraktarov! They voted 112 MPs: 37 against 21, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. [[The National Representative Kamen Kostadinov spoke with MPs on the move.]] Mr. Kostadinov, please take your seat or leave the room. I shall put to the vote art. 17 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 73, against 21, abstention 9. Article 17 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u76	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u77	Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u78	Mr President, we have announced a meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance for 11:30, but the House is busy, so I will ask for a 20-minute break to make an extraordinary meeting of the Commission. Come on up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u79	Thirty minutes of rest to keep the rest of the MPs calm. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u80	Dear Members of Parliament, the work of the Budget Committee has been completed. The report is currently being drawn up. Let's continue with art. 18 and when the Commission is ready for the additional report, we shall return to the deferred art. 16. I'm inviting the MPs to enter the Chamber. Mrs. Yordanova, Art. 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Articles 18 to 22 are also supported by the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u82	Statements on Articles 18 to 22 including on the report, by importer? I won't. I shall put it to the vote of art. Art. 18, Art. 22 including by importer fully supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 68 against 9, abstention 25. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u83	Under art. 23 The proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs: "Article 23 shall be amended as follows: Art. 23. (1) Adopts the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for 2017 as follows (according to the table in the report). The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u84	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Milen Mihov and a group of MPs - the Commission does not support it. We vote. They voted 121 MPs: 32, against 17, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 23 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 76 against 9, abstention 30. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u85	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 24 and offers in para. 1, t. 1 and 1.1. to be amended as follows (according to attached table): "1." Provides compensation for the financial assistance of 35 thousand. lv. 1.1. Refunds paid for financial assistance 35 thousand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u86	Millions is what it is!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u87	Yes, but the table is in thousands of leva, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u88	It doesn't say anything!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u89	35 million. lv. For the record.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u90	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 24 by importer, as amended in para. 1, t. 1 et c. 1.1, as proposed by the Commission. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 112 MPs: 78, against 12, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u91	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25. Under art. 26 supposed by the MP Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26, para. 1, III, 1 increased by 2.922 million. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u92	Under art. Come on in, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u93	Madam President, honourable Members! To clarify what I've proposed in the budget project. I've proposed to her. Art. 26, Art. Art. 31, Art. 32 are affected by this proposal. And since you're looking at art. 26, he is in connection with art. 31, according to which the National Security Service takes 5 million. Eight hundred and forty-four thousand. lv. More or less what Mr. Ahmed Dogan and Mr. Delyan Peevsky's security costs. And we give them to two other services that have much greater importance for national security. I'm offering $2 million. 922,000. lv. DANS and 2 million. 922,000. lv. DAR's. And I am now asking the question to all MPs: everyone, when we talk to our constituents, says that we defend their interests. At the moment we see the state giving some money to our taxpayer, to our constituents to be guarded, for example, gentlemen who are in a very good financial situation and can provide their own security. Moreover, DPS colleagues can say here that Mr. Delyan Peevski no longer comes to work. And that is why I am asking: what is more important, is this to do or to guarantee national security by giving the State Intelligence Agency, which I will remind you, has a humiliating low budget of 23 million. BGN, against the offered to NSO " 37 million" lv. I would just like to remind you that the Republic of Croatia, which has an intelligence agency by number equal to ours, has for this year a budget of 43 million. The euro is four times more than our State Intelligence Agency, and we are a border state between two worlds. And I'm asking: how long are we going to work in this double way, and then we're going to talk and we're going to vote? That is why my proposal is without increasing the spending of the budget without increasing the deficit, I propose a redistribution, which is reasonable and fair, meets the national interest of the state and meets the interests of all Bulgarian citizens, and not just some of them. The same is the case with the DANS. DANS is the counterintelligence service that takes the whole blow from the great migratory pressure. What's the problem with giving DANS $2 million? 922,000. lv.? For example, one of the guards will pay for his own security, that's what I'm offering you. Now we will see here when these proposals are voted on, what is more important: national interest or any other political accounts and plays? I suggest you support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u94	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Andreev, it seems to be a well-accepted practice the art of opposing. It begins with the opposition of different layers. Now different services are opposed, and some of them are more important to national security than others, according to you. You're in charge, you've had the opportunity to participate in the budget process. You had the opportunity for these services, which, in your opinion, lack the means to offer, when the time is right, that it should happen, and not here to give your mind to who should be guarded, how to be guarded and why to be guarded. These are decisions that are serious, which are made by the relevant authorities, which far better solve them than here in this Chamber, to throw these empty words at each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u96	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u97	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Andreev, I am surprised at your offer. I would not have been surprised if you had intended to give more money to, for example, the Bureau of Records, because I know that you have a particular interest in the work of this Commission, but to offer more money for the SANS and the DAR, it really amazes me. It seems that the momentum you acquired from the construction in Parvomay at the Ministry of Interior has moved you to a similar move now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u98	Third line? Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u99	Dear Mr. Chobanov, yes, it is true, I do not know the interior of the hotel garage so well, but I can tell you this. What you are saying is absolutely false, as my proposal protects the national security of the state. And otherwise, I wouldn't mind having people in danger guarded when necessary, and if they can take over their own security, they can do it. This is exactly what these people can take care of themselves. I do not agree to pay their taxes to protect these people, since I deeply disrespect them. And as for what Mr. Chetin Kazak said, yes, Mr. Kazak, this is exactly the distant attitude that you had as a party during the years of transition to the problems of your electorate, made you in this position to stop you in Bulgaria like the corporate party, the party of corporations. That's it! Otherwise, in those years you could prove very timely and many times that you are the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. But you're not like that. You are the Movement for the Corporate Interests of the Bosses of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u100	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal under art. 26, which the Commission does not support. They voted 114 MPs: 24, against 30, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. Anblok, we are voting on members with numbers 25 and 26 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 79, against 16, abstention 19. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u101	Articles 27 to 30, including by importer, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u102	Statements? I won't. We vote members from 27 to 30 inclusive. They voted 115 MPs: 80 against 15, 20 abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u103	Article 31. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1, III, 1 is reduced by 5,844 million. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u104	Statements? I won't. I'm voting on Mr. Andreev's proposal. The Commission does not support it. They voted 117 MPs: 32, against 31, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 31 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 78, against 15, abstentioned 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u105	Under art. 32 there is a proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreyev in art. 32, para. 1 III, 1 is increased by 2.922 million. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u106	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 26, against 31, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 32 by importer. They voted 107 MPs: 77 against 8, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u107	Articles 33 to 50, including by importer, shall be supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u108	Statements? I won't. We vote on Articles 33 to 50 by importer, including fully supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 78, against 13, abstention 18. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u109	Under art. 51 has a proposal of Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State and the total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State is replaced by the sum of the total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Sultanka Petrova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 51 the following amendments shall be made: The total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State 2 423 034,2 thousand. The total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State 2 443 134.2 thousand is replaced by the total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski: "1." The following amendments and additions shall be made in art.51: (a) In the text prior to the table of municipalities, after the words the total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State and the number (b) In order to: - To replace the number of the budget relationships with the number of the budget of 2 881 352,5 and to replace it with the number of the budget of 2 902 552,5. - The total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State. - the number of the amount of the subsidy referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the amount of the subsidy referred to in point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. - The amount of the subsidy for capital expenditure is equal to the amount of the subsidy for the period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 and the amount of the subsidy for the period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 for the period from 1 January The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u110	Statements under art. 51? Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u111	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! These are practically proposals from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, which we discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government. Given that the funds, which are generally laid down in the state budget as a macro-rama, are supported by the Association, but there are still several places that need additional support. The proposal has been submitted by me for the first time in six years to obtain the thawing of funds for the municipal administration in terms of wage funds, and they have increased by another 6 million. BGN, which provides an average monthly gross wage of 490 BGN. of occupied under the budget BGN 475. For comparison, the minimum wage will be BGN 460. What does that mean? If you now support such a proposal, the average gross salary in the municipal administration will be BGN 490. You can judge more or less of this money when you're in charge of tens of millions of levs and when you're making a decision for the entire community, which requires enormous professionalism. The second proposal is to increase the amount of the matching subsidy by 5.2 million. BGN 1,9 million lv. be targeted at the poorest 74 municipalities, which, due to defects in the distribution mechanism for the second year, have been zero or insignificant... less than 1%, increase of the subsidy. The idea of the matching subsidy is to support municipalities with low own income potential. With the other 3.3 million. lv. The idea is to compensate them for the drastic increase in the excise duty on liquid fuels, as municipalities use them for heating. Analog compensation is practically also at stake for farmers. The last proposal is that the target capital subsidy should be increased by 10 million. BGN, which are mainly intended for maintenance of the municipal road network. According to one survey, the state of the municipal road network is many times worse than the Republican road network, and the available resources for the support are over 4.5 times lower. At the same time, municipalities do not have a tax source, nor do they have assigned own revenue, such as the wine charges for the Republican road network, nor do they have access to euro funds, except for one minor resource under the Rural Development Programme. My proposal is to consider carefully and support the Bulgarian municipalities. Each of us lives in a Bulgarian municipality, regardless of who is mayor, regardless of what the municipal council is. These are the local authorities who are closest to the people who at a daily and hourly pace try to meet the expectations and requirements of our voters, the people of Bulgaria. Yes, Bulgarian municipalities have problems. Yes, Bulgarian municipalities need the support of the state. I would invite you to support this proposal, tabled by me, but it is actually a proposal of the management of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and is voted by mayors of all the political forces represented in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u112	Any lines to Mr. Zelenogorski? Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u113	Mr. Zelenogorski, I just want to make one line for you and say two facts without commenting on anything else. For the first time this year, there are more than 200 million for municipalities than the previous year. Two hundred million, which is a very serious amount and I think the National Association of Municipalities appreciates that. As for the money you want extra for municipalities and their motivation, I want to focus on the excise duty of heavy fuel, which has really increased. In fact, there are so many programs until the time when municipalities had to apply and change the way gas heating or another suitable source, as heavy fuels themselves are expensive in general and this is the most expensive heating. If so far they have really used the most expensive heating and have not made any effort to replace it with cheaper, this means that we give them this money in vain and this money is being spent inefficiently. The increase in the excise duty on heavy fuels had two objectives: one to reduce the grey economy in this area, which is really whirling, as such are the parameters of heavy fuels. The second objective is to encourage heavy fuel consumers to switch to more environmentally friendly and cheaper sources. This is also an incentive for municipalities to change the way they heat up kindergartens, nurseries, schools, their own buildings and so on. I think there's no point in giving the budget money for their inefficient spending.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u114	Mr. Nenkov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Zelenogorski, certainly each of us is from a different municipality, everyone wants more money for the services of each of these municipalities. However, we cannot fail to take into account the fact that the Association of Municipalities itself in the Commission expressed satisfaction with the proposed amendments to the State Budget Act, namely that not 200 but 209 million will go into the various activities that municipalities must carry out and in relation to improving the quality of the services delegated to them by the State. Moreover, I believe that not only through the State Budget Act, but also in the last one or two years, this government and this majority have made quite serious steps for municipalities to be financially well-being and through the Public Finance Act, which has enabled municipalities that have difficulties to be financed with interest-free loans and other laws that have approved and enabled tax revenues to have more revenue. The very improvement between the state and municipal administration, which is a fact, will also lead to more revenue in each of the municipal budgets. Yes, the money will never be enough, but also in the Commission itself, when we talked and discussed the proposals of the Association of Municipalities, it was clear that we should eventually have the opportunity to take this money from somewhere. You can see that from yesterday to today, every proposal, only 12 million, only 10 million, eventually accumulates a sum without having a clear idea of where that money will come from. I believe that the budget is very well balanced and really allows for a serious sip of municipalities from the perspective of finance. I think it is good for the municipalities themselves to look for them, because, obviously, there are also reserves in their collection and can improve their financial capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u116	Third line? It's a hole, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u117	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova, Mr. Nenkov! At the beginning of my speech I said that the municipalities in Bulgaria, the Association of Municipalities approved this macrorama. Yes, indeed, there are 209 million more this year, but there are still details, and it is precisely the details. It is about about 20 million additional, which, notice, do not go specifically for one ministry, for one project, but are practically distributed to all residents of Bulgaria. Because these 6-7 million currently living in Bulgaria, through funding of municipalities, are practically the beneficiaries of this funding that we are going to make. Notice where that money goes. Firstly, in the poorest 74 municipalities, which barely have their own income sources, which are in a terribly difficult financial condition; municipalities that should really receive the support of the state. The other part, the very important part is for the municipal road network. Indeed, the municipal road network in some places is like after a bombing. Indeed, municipalities do not have the necessary resources to ensure the elementary movement of people in the municipality X from point A to point B. Let me tell you that when something extraordinary happens, when God forbid someone dies, because there are holes in the X road, the mayor is the person who immediately goes to the D.A. and starts writing because the municipality is responsible for all this. But the municipality is responsible when it has the relevant resources. Unfortunately, they don't have those resources. The state of the municipal road network is many times worse than the state of the Republican, so I call for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u118	Any other MPs? Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House. I take the floor under this article because with the adoption of the national budget for 2017 there was a lot of speculation about how and how the National Sanitation Program will continue and how it is scheduled in the state budget for 2017. I am counting on the presence here of Minister Goranov and the Chairman of the Budget Committee for an answer on this issue. After all, we accept the budget as proposed by the Council of Ministers as, you see, there are no changes between first and second readings on it. My request is Mr. Minister, Mrs. Stoyanova, to dispel these doubts. How and how will the implementation of the National Financing Programme continue? How is funding secured under this budget? I'm taking a position on art. 51, which is about the relationship with municipalities, because neither in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development, nor in the budget of the Ministry of Finance, nor in art. Art. 70, Art. 72, where the taking of new state guarantees and relations of the Bulgarian Development Bank is treated, there are such written amounts. My request is that there be no speculation, in the political will declared by you, that you continue this programme and under a budget drawn up by you before the government resigns, please, here in the Chamber to answer how this is written, where and how the Bulgarian municipalities can be calm from now on to conduct these procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u120	A line to Mr. Boychev? I won't. To speak, Mrs. Mariana Todorova, so that you are not part of the same group at the same time, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u121	Madam President, honourable Members, I present our proposal. It is for additional subsidization of municipalities to introduce step by step free children's clear and kindergartens in the country. At first glance, it may sound populist, but this is not some random notion, but a while ago discussed within the Council of Ministers. Serious discussions were started as well as with the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. It's calculated how much it's gonna cost. This would have a serious demographic effect on the country. It would be related to both birth rate and early return of mothers to work, but especially to the fact that all Bulgarian children would have free access to nursery and kindergartens. This is particularly important for minority children. When they have such a free nursery or kindergarten, they will visit it, learn Bulgarian language and, as they go to school, they will know Bulgarian language and will be less likely to drop out of school. Thus they will acquire literacy and reduce illiterateness in Bulgaria and low-qualified personnel. This measure would have an effect far in the future, but it would help us to solve many of the serious problems of illiterate people and low-qualified labour, so it is worth thinking about. The amount is not a small amount of around 500 million is worth per year, but the effect over the years would be cumulative and would give a good return. If we really want to look for demographic solutions in many directions, both with education and against illiteracy, such are measures, and not the allocation of funds to a calvary that would act single but would not give a solution in the future. I see the importer's logic is different. The budget has its logic, its consistency and will hardly be accepted, but it is worth opening this discussion, if not for this Parliament, at least for one of the following, as this would actually solve many problems at once, and not just one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u122	Any lines to Mrs. Todorova? I won't. To speak, Mrs. Sultanka Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u123	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, the Parliamentary Group proposal is for the remuneration of workers in medical and social care homes, regional health inspections and other bodies of the Ministry of Health. The salaries of the workers in these medical institutions are in the structure of the Ministry of Health, but they have not been increased since 2009. In recent years there have been extremely many cuts in regional health inspections and in the homes for medical and social care, and there are extremely many efforts for Bulgarian children. That is why we propose this increase, because our analyses showed that in the structures of regional health inspections in the different regions of the country receive different remunerations - for example in Varna the minimum salary is about 450 BGN. Our proposal is for an increase in these funds, because low remuneration generally disproves young people to work in similar places, even newly graduated graduates with their respective specialties or leave the country, or are directed to another area and realization. We insist on supporting our proposal because these are two very important areas where there is really a need for an increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u124	Any lines to Mrs. Petrova? I won't. Mrs. Yankova has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u125	Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am speaking to support the proposal of the National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski, who is also Chairman of the Committee on Regional Development, with the following reasons. In a meeting of the Committee on Regional Policy and Local Government, we agreed, except for colleagues from GERB who were worried about the budget framework regarding support for municipalities with little resource. Here I will share objectiveness towards the debate: we all know that when we have to take the relative share of municipal expenditure to gross domestic product, it is 5.3%, which is low. When we have to pay the relative share of municipal expenditure in the total cost of the consolidated fiscal programme, it is 13.3%. That is, we, each year, as regards municipalities, are going down in the internal financial relations of public finances that go to the municipalities themselves. Now you are saying, perhaps because you have been calm so far, that there is an opportunity and municipalities are constantly supporting each other, but the issue is principled. If we take the municipal road infrastructure, 20 thousand. km of state road infrastructure for which the financial resource is 732 million lv. and 19,500 thousand municipal road infrastructure for which the financial resource is 149 million. lv. What's going on? That the state invested 37 thousand per kilometer, and for the municipalities 8 thousand. There is no harm in European funds for municipal roads. This resource is getting smaller and smaller. This resource, you know, with Measure 72, which in rural areas is a small financial resource, for all Bulgarian municipalities it decreases. In a regional operational programme, where the big municipalities are, and have a large rural periphery, GERB should be politically very interested, because in fact there is 100%, almost 98% are the mayors of GERB. We leave these municipalities in principle, we do not talk about whether they are mayors of GERB, of DPS, of BSP or others, here we are talking about a policy related to municipal roads. Thus, the offer is even very modest.. 10 million. lv. I address all the parliamentary groups: let us support additional financial resources for the Bulgarian municipalities for the municipal roads another 10 million! What is real right now if I have to give you another argument? Nearly 70% of the Republican network is in a good or medium state, while 38% of the municipal network is in a good or medium state, such as statistics. If we also have to say that 15% are municipal roads, where there is almost no pavement, and if we have to solve demographic problems, the road network is that economic infrastructure on which the economy is going, I am asking to support the proposal of my colleague Zelenogorski. I would like to give another motive for the matching subsidy that is being pleaded and proposed. Colleagues, we, too, our President at the beginning of the term of office signed a contract with the Association of Municipalities and committed ourselves not to burden municipalities with legislative decisions that are not related in financial analysis, have no ties to finance and no funding under these laws. I would like to tell you that at the moment 67 laws and regulations and 43 national programmes have been adopted before and supplemented our contribution from this National Assembly, which are not tied to funding. This means that we decide by law and come from Local taxes and fees. There is no resource to fund these programs. So whatever it is, yes, the municipalities will always want more. These 200 million and Mrs. Stoyanova and Mrs. Nenkov know that the standards have been increased and this is in compliance with the Law on Education and the Law on Social Assistance. We increase the standards there is the policy in education and social policy and it is quite right to have these 200 million. However, this is about specific local policies, which I appeal to you to support Nayden Zelenogorski's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u126	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? They don't want to take part in the debate. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Ms Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 121 MPs: 64, against 7, abstention 50. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] Mrs. Menda Stoyanova for revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u127	Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal to re-vote and name-check. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u128	There's a quorum. What name check?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u129	Name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - here Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - absent Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - here Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here There's a quorum. Additional entry: Valeri Simeonov, Vladimir Toshev, Ivan Valkov, Dimitar Boychev, Krasimir Karakachanov, Valeri Jablyanov, Nikolay Alexandrov, Georgi Bojinov, Nastimir Ananiev, Altimir Adamov, Dimitar Delchev. I put to the vote the proposal of Ms. Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 152 MPs: 57 against 14, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mrs. Sultanka Petrova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 141 MPs: 43, against 20, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 146 MPs: 64, against 6, abstention 76. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 51 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 136 MPs: for 94, against 28, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, you have entered and been given the additional report of the Committee on Budget and Finance after its extraordinary meeting at the request of one third of the Commissioners. I suggest we get back to art. 16. Mrs. Stoyanova, report the additional report under art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u130	Additional report to Report No 653-02-79 of 30 November 2016 on the second vote of the Draft State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64. Under art. 16 there is a proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Borislav Velikov and a group which the Commission supports. There is a proposal of the MP Mariana Todorova and a group which the Commission does not support. The Commission shall in principle support the text of art. 16 and offers the following editing of art. 16, namely: Art. 16. It shall adopt the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science for 2017 as follows: The following table is inserted in which the following changes are made: In III, budget relations. 1. The figure is 962 million. 028.9. 2. The number is minus 483 million. 036,8. 2.1. The number is minus 483 million. 023,8. The report shall include a change in Annex 3 to art. 16 "Transfers from the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science for State Higher Schools and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2017, where it has been changed. The number for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is 88 million. 287, the number for Sofia University at 52 million. As well as the sum of the table, the total amount of 483 million. 036,8.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u131	Statements? Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u132	Madam President, honourable Members! I invite you to support this proposal, as it is about an increase in the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which will be used in two main directions. First, honourable Members, in order to finance these 600, I repeat 600, young Bulgarian PhD students at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, both in natural sciences and applied, both in fundamental and in public sciences. Secondly, during the discussions, bear in mind that these funds are also needed for the participation of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in European projects. Dear colleagues, in order for BAS to win such projects and absorb these funds, it must co-finance these projects. That is why I invite you, it is hardly necessary to speak here for long, honourable Members. The directives of the European Union, the budgetary policies of the member states are for an increase in spending in the field of Bulgarian science. I think that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which gives almost 60% of the scientific production, deserves this gesture. So, honourable Members, I ask you to support 10 million BGN. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which is the flagship of Bulgarian science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u133	- What's the line? I won't. Mrs. Todorova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u134	Madam President, honourable Members! I will call for the same because I do not accept the arguments that BAS can be financed on the principle of project financing. There are many institutes that are in humanitarianism, in humanities, which protect the Bulgarian identity. Let speakers who believe that these institutes may apply for certain projects, come out and say which projects they will be able to obtain the funds from. In addition, many of the scientific achievements, innovations, patents and products are based on fundamental sciences. Fundamental science cannot produce any products that apply on this principle of project financing. Bulgaria has two scientific discoveries. One stands at the heart of the manufacture of copiers, the other is the discovery of the sixth heart tone. Scientists who have done so have made the discoveries, and on this basis are produced copiers, sets of medicines and medical research. But one scientist who deals with fundamental science cannot offer anything else. It is really very important to understand that there is no way for fundamental science and humanitarianism to apply for project funding. In addition, countries where there is project funding and scientists who sign project financing contracts receive this from business, from private corporations and from the state. In Bulgaria the profile of the business is small and medium-sized business - more than 99.8%, they have no money for research and development. Also, countries where science and technology are the most developed have high production and the economy, have a high production and technology profile, devote the most to science. For reference: Israel six percent, USA, 3%, South Korea and Japan, 3%. When they support the fundamental science that can help with research these high-tech companies come along with such investors. So I do not agree to see the Bulgarian scientists as a solution to a social problem to give them something for an existenz-minimum and they themselves to give up what they are doing. This is not a social problem, this is an attitude towards science in Bulgaria. Let's not turn the nation's elite into marginals and let them be ashamed to ask for 10 million every year because it's pathetic and not dignified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u135	Any lines to Mrs. Todorova? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will also make a brief statement as a collaborator and as authorized by the Group of the Patriotic Front to support this proposal and vote with great agreement, and why not universal consent, this amendment. So that we can at least have a little reason to talk that really the science and institutions of Bulgarian science are a priority for the people who rule our country. This reduction, this amendment in the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences should be a first step towards changing the policy towards science. The understanding that science should be self-financed and self-sustained raises questions about the existence of the institutions in which it takes place. It must be ensured that the unaltered level of funding that will give stability to the institutions.......... the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, universities, the Industrial Academy and the other established by history and tradition still state institutions of Bulgarian science. Only by guaranteeing such stability is financial stability for these institutions will we give the opportunity for the life, professional and scientific career of young scientists. I have personally survived the last 25 years of the journey from a young assistant to a habilitated professor at university and I do not want, I do not want, I do not want to say it three times, our young colleagues to relive this time where the salary is a matter of paying bills or a question of existence. This humiliating situation in which Bulgarian scientists have been placed for tens of years must be changed. Let's start today with the first step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u137	Any lines to Mr. Mihov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed, the vote is pending. Colleagues, we are following the Additional Report, p. 4 for those who follow the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Ms. Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 153 MPs: 66, against 5, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal, which generally supports the text of the importer for art. 16 and offers an editing in a table contained in the Additional Report. They voted 152 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 72. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from BSP LB, PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u138	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u140	Revoting, Madam President, I do. Some of my colleagues have failed to vote, so I would like a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u141	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 154 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 73. [[Noise, lines and applause from BSP LB.]] The motion is accepted. The proposal under art. 3 when the time is right. Let's continue with art. 52. Who's going to report under art. 52?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Article 52 "A proposal of the National Representative Boris Yachev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52 the following amendments shall be made: ..................................................... 52. The values of the municipalities for the activities delegated by the State are determined in accordance with Annex No 7, column 1 and column 3 as follows: The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u143	Statements? Here you are.. People's representative Boris Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u144	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My proposal is related to supporting the activities and functioning of municipal drug councils. In accordance with art. 15 of the Drug Control Act was established ten years ago 28 municipal drug councils in the district centers of the country. In accordance with this Law, it is they who implement and implement the programme of the National Strategy for the Fight against Drugs. In accordance with art. 15 of the Law on the Control of Drugs, the funding of these centres is carried out by means of the state budget through municipal budgets as delegated by the state activities and for 2016 a standard of 9530 BGN was adopted. for one piece. That's about £460. average salary for those people who are specialists, mostly with two higher educations, psychologists. For comparison, in the local Committees for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings for one state issue the funding is with an amount of 11 130 BGN. The funds provided for in the delegated budget are determined only for salaries, insurance and maintenance of the premises through the Ministry of Health, for the activities of each of the municipal councils on drugs, and provide 1300 leva. per year. One of the proposed measures in 2006 in the Health Act is: municipal councils on narcotics to carry out their activities by using the envisaged funding in art. 53, para. 3 of the Health Act. It is said that 1 percent of the funds entered into the Republican budget of excise duties on tobacco products and spirits are used to finance national programmes to limit smoking, alcohol abuse and non-drug use. This must be one of the most neglected members in the Health Act. 53, para. 3, because since 2006, not a single lev of this 1% of excise duties has entered the National Anti-narcotics Programme. The Ministry of Finance has repeatedly expressed its view that this money must go to the general budget and hence be distributed in various activities. In this regard, my proposal is related to additional funding of municipal drug councils, which is increased by 9530 BGN. At £13,440. for a subsidised number. I mean, that's actually less than 10%, that's about BGN 46. will be the increase in the average wage of these 160 specialists working in the 27 centers for municipal drug councils. My proposal provides for an additional total of 400 thousand. lv. for carrying out preventive activities. That's 15 grand. lv. the year of each of these 27 municipal drug councils. The total amount is 600,000. 200 BGN, in my opinion negligible little against the background of other expenses that the budget foresees. People deserve it because these are the only structures that work effectively in the fight against the spread of drugs among young people and these centres are on the brink of their existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Boris Yachev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 87 MPs: 15 against 23, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 52 on the Commission report. Vote 73 MPs: 63 against 2, abstention 8. Article 52 of the Commission report has been adopted. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u146	Please put to the vote a procedural proposal to extend the working time until the report referred to in point 4 is completed and the vote on the relevant texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u147	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for Articles 53 to 55. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 56: Art. 56. (1) Within 10 days of the promulgation of the decree on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 in the Official Journal, the budgetary organisations whose budgets are part of the state budget shall publish on their website their established budgets, as well as the programming formats of their budgets in compliance with the requirements of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. (2) The senior authorising officers with a budget shall be responsible and shall control the publication process by their secondary officers with a budget of information or documents on their website where this is provided for in this Law or in the Public Finance Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 57. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 58, Art. 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u148	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Articles 53 to 59, including on the Commission's report. Vote 78 MPs: 69 against 5, abstention 4. Articles 53 to 59, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u149	Under art. 60? a proposal from the MPs Mariana Todorova, Miho Mihov, Kiril Tsochev, Svetoslav Belemezov, Ivan Ivanov, Ivan Stankov, Lachezar Nikiforov, Petar Kadiev, Georgi Kuchukov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 60th number..380, is replaced The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 60 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u150	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since 2009 we have seen the slow increase of the minimum monthly salary with a total of 220 BGN. From 240 to 460 BGN, which will be in force from 1 January 2017. As I said, this increase is approximately double. For the same period the minimum monthly amount of the lowest salary for the lowest position provided for by a civil servant under the Law on the Civil Service Officer is increased from 335 BGN. of 460 BGN, again with effect from 1 January 2017. From 2009 until now, the base for determining the basic monthly remuneration of the lowest position of the military officers, border guards, firefighters and prison guards has increased by only BGN 4. From 376 to 380 BGN This increase took place after 5 years............................................ in the sector.............................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the next three years, no increase on this base is envisaged, i.e. there is a permanent freeze and even a reduction in the cost of the sector. Our proposal is in art. The 60th number of.380, shall be replaced by the number of.418, as a base which represents a 10-percent increase. The proposed increase of the base in art. 60 of the State Budget Bill is fully secured by the funds provided for an increase in the pero-Personal in the sector. The increase corresponds to the overall increase in incomes in 2017, laid down in the minimum wage and minimum remuneration for the lowest post for civil servants. At the moment, honourable Members, there is a serious problem with filling in the composition of the sector - Security - I refer to the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. This is a problem mostly caused by low initial monthly remuneration and the unstoppable working conditions. I refer to the lack of supplies, uniforms, equipment, outdated material-technical base. I believe that, in view of the increased risks to internal, national security, in view of all the challenges facing not only Bulgaria but also Europe, we must be extremely precise in the field of security. The increase proposed by us is fully in line with the conditions laid down for 2017 and with the possibilities of the state budget. We therefore appeal to you for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposals by the MPs Mariana Todorova, Miho Mihov, Kiril Tsochev, Svetoslav Belemezov, Ivan Ivanov, Ivan Stankov, Lachezar Nikiforov, Petar Kadiev, Georgi Kuchukov, and by the MP Atanas Atanasov, who are identical and are not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 15 against 15, abstention 49. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 60, which is supported by the Commission. Vote art. 60 on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 74 against 9, abstention 5. Article 60 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u153	The Commission shall support the importer's texts for Articles 61 and 62 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u154	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! This is art. 61 of the State Budget Bill, which freezes all social payments for another year. And this year, the right to receive family benefits for a child until the end of high school will awaken the passions in our society. Parents who receive such benefits will be dissatisfied with their size, but they will not be happy because there is no change from last year's dimensions, i.e. they are frozen, although life is rising. They are also extremely insufficient to cover the basic needs of children. On the other hand, families who are deprived of this supplement because they are overstepping some threshold, some income criterion, feel deprived and ignored by the state. No change in the monthly income under art. 4 of the Law on Family Aid for Children 2017 and it remains BGN 400, i.e. the right to family aid for children under the Law will have families and pregnant women with an average monthly income of a family member for the previous 12 months, lower or equal to BGN 400. Again on the agenda comes the question: how fair is the income criterion and is there no discrimination against a group of children? Is it not time to remove it, or will we continue to justify its existence that in times of crisis it is better to support only those who cannot cope alone. From the looks of it, we are in a permanent crisis in Bulgaria - it is economic, it financial, it political, so soon there will be no elimination of this criterion. At least think about raising it higher! We at BSP have repeatedly proposed to change the principle of support for families with children by the state. For us, the working mechanism is the introduction of real family income taxation and we believe that many problems will be solved. I don't know if this is the place, but I'll note that the new approach widely advertised by the former Minister of Labour and Social Policy...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u156	Stop bothering us... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u157	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u158	I don't know who I'm dealing with, but you need to hear this because for another year, you're freezing the payments. [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] And you should hear these things, tell them! The former Minister of Labour and Social Policy said that there is a new approach in determining monthly support for raising a child and this would lead to an increase in their size. However, I believe that this led to a reduction because in families with 2-3 and more children, when one or both children come out of childhood and from their family, the family becomes a family with one child and instead of receiving 85 leva. Or 130 BGN, he gets 37 BGN. I won't talk about the other frozen payments. You know them because there isn't a year in which you managed and didn't freeze those payments. [[Noise and lines.]] I wonder if there's a thought in your heads or if you're just protesting to solve the demographic crisis and demographic sign?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u159	I ask you to choose your expressions for the MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u160	I don't think there's anything weird about asking if there's a thought in people's heads.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u161	Well, wonder about your thought sooner!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u162	We come to a new creative interpretation in social payments, that's in para. 12, determining the amount of monthly aid to raise a child with permanent disabilities. I will not refrain from expressing my serious concern that no mechanism has been found in the State Budget Project for the fair distribution of funds between the different groups of children with disabilities. What am I talking about? Families with children with 50 to 70% disabilities are most seriously damaged by the proposals made and the reason for this is that they provide for these children with disabilities to receive 350 BGN, which I think is less than the social economic protection granted so far, because with the transitional and final provisions you take away all their supplements for integration under art. 42 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and the possibility to receive specific support from the State for the use of balneological and rehabilitation services. It also turns out that these children are taken out of the aid scope for diet and medicinal products. I would point out that you have also taken a rather clumsy approach to defining the limits for species and degree of disability and have advocated the final percentages, which will inevitably create prerequisites for subjective interpretation in their application. You did not accept our proposal for amendments to the Social Assistance Act for children and did not bind this payment to the minimum working room under the pretext that your proposal is better, but you did not explain for whom it is better for the families who raise children with disabilities or for the country that will save someone and another lev. In conclusion, the whole art. 61 of the Draft Law on the State Budget is contrary to the understandings of the BSP Parliamentary Group left Bulgaria for social protection and the policies followed by BSP. This does not give us the right to support these proposals in this form. Thank you for your attention. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u163	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not know why you reacted to colleague Gyokov, but really the problem is serious. Yesterday I asked you to join the Law on Family Aid for Children with Disabilities, as this model that you are proposing at the moment is really unfair and I will prove it to you now. If you had accepted what BSP offers, the monthly support for children with disabilities would be BGN 322. Now, however, the government offers one scale, and especially for those 13 thousand 764 children with disabilities who have between 50 and 70% degree of disability, the sum of 350 BGN. Some will say: yes, but one is 350, another is But there's a big but! These 350 BGN, ladies and gentlemen, represent one package that excludes all other additives, especially integration supplements, which are close to 30 BGN. They also exclude the amount of child benefits. So a family who has a child with a disability of between 50 and 70% will get 350 BGN. If you had accepted what we wanted to offer, it would have received a minimum of BGN 352. At least! And here's the difference. And that is why we have appealed to a new approach, a different approach than what the government is proposing. The government offers dust in the eyes of the people. This approach that we propose is much fairer. As said by colleague Gyokov, this included the cost of rehabilitation and balneotherapy. Now you tell them: here's 350 leva. Take care of yourself! But we say no! Let's make it 322 leva. and build, build, because these parents sacrificed their professional careers in the name of raising their children. They don't throw them away to the state, they sacrifice their lives for the sake of their children. And the idea was really the state and all of us to make sure that I had a fairer pay. We know that we can't give anything as sufficient resources to ease them, but ultimately what we offer is much more money. That's what my colleague Gyokov meant. I don't know why you jumped him like that. What we were proposing was really a bigger increase. That, of course, does not solve the problem. Here, to solve the problem, the question is not who will give what amount, but to have a truly targeted policy for children with disabilities. Once again, the government has fooled you, fooled us, and fooled us, putting in this rock, which de facto does not meet the expectations of these families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva. Are there any other statements? If there isn't, we'll vote, otherwise I'll take a break at 1:00 a.m. half an hour and then we'll move on. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we have been listening for several days to very active talk in the direction of supporting children with disabilities by BSP colleagues. It is interesting that it is well-structured, prepared, written the statement of Mr. colleague Gyokov, which clearly aims to fill the public space with how bad we are, how we do nothing and how we have not taken any measures towards these children. I would like to start my comment on this subject with the sentence that, yes, it is a fact that everyone in recent years who has managed the state continues to be indebted to these children. At the same time, however, I would like to say immediately that, for the first time, with the State Budget Act, a different attention is offered, a different look at the topic of Family and support for families with children with disabilities. If we're just gonna talk about money here, because I'm aware that without money, this support isn't really gonna happen, but if we're gonna talk about money, I don't think it's right. Support for a family with a disabled child and support for these children should not only be viewed as a financial amount that will be given to a cock in any family that has such a problem. Support for these children must be horizontal, it must be carried out at the same time with measures taken by both the field of health and education and in the field of social support and the Social Ministry, because only so, with complex and joint efforts, will they be able to truly receive these children the care they deserve. I have the self-confidence that we have made many steps and many faithful steps in the search for this good element and the good support of these children and with the changes in the educational sphere, and with the changes in health care, and now, however small this step is being taken at the moment with the State Budget Act, it is the most faithful one. Here, for the first time, we have differentiated support, not support for a cock with some money that we will pour out everywhere and we do not know what will happen to them. Yeah, there's more to be done. I want to ask you right now, I will specifically address Mr. Stoinev, who is one of the main importers of the Law. On 25 November 2015, during a meeting of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, you said: "Yes, there must be differentiation in support for children. I agree. It's not normal for a child with asthma, for example, to get what's full of paralysis. We really need to do this. Yeah, I'm not saying we're perfect. And I'm not saying we're perfect. But we are starting a different policy with regard to these children and their families. And here we all need to unite and really start building from here on out. I agree with you that maybe BGN 352. is your support, and ours remains BGN 350. at the lowest rate. But the other is support for children with the highest percentage, is BGN 930 and BGN 490. is the younger one. That is, there is an upgrade in the worst and most serious cases where there is a need for support. I believe that the beginning of this different approach, of this complex approach to solving the problem is very important, and we must unite and support it, because you yourself have already shared that you agree with the differentiation of this problem. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. - What's the line? First, the People's Representative Dragomir Stoinev. Then there's Georgi Gyokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zaharieva, yes, I do not deny my words. This is about 13 764 children, for whom the amount in this package that you are offering is less. Our idea is as follows: this amount includes today's assistance to children with disabilities, the amount of child allowances, the integration supplement and all other additional payments. We wanted this: this monthly support for children with disabilities to be BGN 322. That is why I appealed yesterday: let us support you the bill we were proposing, because you are currently stepping on a base of BGN 240. We want to be 70% of the minimum wage to be 322 BGN, and to be as before: all other supplements to go. It's not like that now. [[Reply from the National Representative Galya Zaharieva.]] The Ministry offers one package and says: In these 350 BGN, dear parents, you include everything. That's the difference. I agree that we need to take a step forward, but for the mass case, for those 13,764 kids, that's a step back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u169	Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u170	Gyokov, how can you read these things on a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u171	Well, I'm prepared, Mr. Ivanov. You don't prepare, I prepare. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Mrs. Zaharieva, your statement has become a little bit like a line to me. Dragomir Stoynev explained to you what this is about. Differentiation is, of course, necessary. No one is arguing about this because the needs of a family that raises a child with 100% are one, and those who grow with 50% disability are quite another. When you from a large group, for whom you do something, differentiate and damage financially, the majority of this group of money, there is no way to say that this is a good thing. Otherwise, your idea of differentiation is good, but you damage most of the group of children with disabilities. And second of all, I don't know, but when we were looking at art. 61, we've focused on your new proposal. You freeze the other 12. I won't list them now from the stands, but you freeze one-time childbirth benefits and so on. Everything that was last and pò last in the budget remains at the same level. You'll say there's no inflation, like there's no appreciation for life. That's what this is all about. I can see that under art. 61 no other proposals have been made. Our group decided not to make proposals because you believe that by offering such things, we are led by populism. Here we do not offer, but we ask you: why are you freezing these payments? That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u172	Third line? It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, fellow Members, we are making great progress. We have, first of all, a confession from colleagues that what we do with differentiation is good. This is a good step towards this I called them in my speech, and I thank them for having their support. Secondly, we have heard a very logical explanation why there is no increase in a certain part and certain support and social payments: well, because there is no inflation. You said it. However, when I get rid of you to talk logically, you do it when we need to populistically talk, tell people and explain how bad what GERB offers, we immediately reverse the talking. That's the facts. There's really no inflation. Indeed, the state is well and needs support always and more, but unfortunately, these are the opportunities at the moment. With regard to differentiated aids and support for families with children with disabilities. Once again I want to say and note it, and bruise it, because this is important: yes, the least support is 350 BGN. Do not miss support in other degrees and in other families that will need this. We shouldn't just talk about one thing, we should look at things in a complex way. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u174	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I shall put to the vote art. Art. 61, Art. 62 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. 99 MPs voted: 82, Against 11, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, there is a meeting of the Commission of Mr. Iskren Veselinov. We interrupt until 1.30 when we continue to debate on art. 63. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u175	Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. Please take your seats. Mrs. Yordanova, we're listening to you under art. 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u176	Proposal of the MPs Slavov, Dimitrov, Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 63th number after the words "BGN" shall be a comma and the text shall be added: the total amount of the funds from the state subsidy to a party or coalition shall not exceed 1 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u177	To speak, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u178	Madam President, honourable Members! I will briefly protect our proposal, which, by the way, over the years, I have heard other colleagues make proposals in this direction. Ours is a little different, but it is basic and it really concerns the need to set some frameworks, some limits for these subsidies that receive political parties. The latter is particularly relevant in the context of the mandatory vote introduced, because think about it, fellow Members, we have said in the Election Code that voting is mandatory and at the same time we say that a certain amount of money is received from a political party, which many people would call a classic example of a conflict of interest............................................................... This is our proposal, in fact, with colleagues Andreev and Dimitrov, i.e. to have a reasonable limit per year, which will ensure the activity, the reasonable political activity of a political formation, including if we assume that every year there are elections and comply with the restrictive texts of the Election Code for maximum spending for the respective elections or referendum. I believe that you agree with me that it is reasonable to have a similar limit on the subsidy received in order not to come to absurdities and, for example, a political formation to receive tens and tens of millions, which obviously are not needed and very often spent on quite other things, such as luxury voyages or buying some luxury goods, but not for political activity and not for what the legislator intended when he intended to receive support for political parties from the state budget, so that they could be independent and not be influenced by corporate and other interests. Here earlier I heard very good proposals from both the left and the right, and from the center for additional funding of various activities and from colleagues from the Patriotic Front I heard, and I think everyone made proposals in general by starting with the need for additional funds for the celebration of the anniversary of Vasil Levski's birth and going through the funds for BAS. Then we commented on the need for funds to build a memorial on the island of Persin. Here on the left they insisted on additional funds for children with disabilities. However, by the way, rational and reasonable proposals, but usually the answer is that money is short and must be taken from somewhere to give for these proposals. I think this proposal will release at least 20 million in the state budget, which can be directed precisely at these endeavours. Indeed, I call on all my fellow Members, who have proposed to further finance such important activities, events, such as those listed just now, to support this proposal of ours. By the way, I am ending with this, further in the Bill you will see that we are trying to be really principled and we have proposed, through a transitional provision and in the Law on Political Parties, that this should be regulated and that it should be lasting, that is, that is to say, not every year in the State Budget Act to propose such a text and indeed in the Law on Political Parties to fix this permanently. And, indeed, the last thing I am finishing with, this proposal of course does not conflict with the results of the referendum and at all with the stated intentions of various colleagues to reduce the absolute value of this subsidy for a vote of BGN 11.00. Now, at 5-4-3 or one as long as you decide. It simply sets a limit which cannot be exceeded and it is, as you have heard, on the Commission's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u179	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. The word for speech now has Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is what we are talking about: we are voting art. 63, which says that the annual amount of the state subsidy for a real vote received under the Law on Political Parties for 2017 is BGN 11 This leads to an excessive subsidy for parties receiving more votes. The idea of the grant is not to open a deposit in a bank and keep your money there. This was never the idea of the subsidy for the parties! The idea is to support the party. The idea is for the party to be able to appear in elections.. parliamentary, local, presidential. The party subsidy should not have any other functions to hold on to deposits, to collect interest, to be used to purchase cars, to travel abroad that are not related to direct political activity. Such a goal never existed, so the Bulgarian people with the referendum showed their setting and attitude to the topic. But we, besides reducing the subsidy as an absolute amount, should also put a ceiling. We must say that a certain amount is sufficient for a party on an annual basis, to appear in elections and to support itself. Me and colleagues Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov have proposed that the annual ceiling be 1 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. We think everything above that is not normal. Or, if a party has currently received a million votes in elections, on these texts it will take an annual amount of 11 million. lv. subsidy. Is that normal, in your opinion, coworkers? Is that really necessary? What's this party gonna do with that money? Well, she'll be forced to put them on a deposit! On deposit! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Therefore, colleagues, this ceiling can be discussed. If you have more reasonable proposals, you think it is low, you can offer another ceiling, but there must be a ceiling, because in the compulsory vote tomorrow it is possible that a new party that is not present in this Parliament will receive several million votes when it is especially for the first time in elections and to find that in this form it receives a huge and unnecessary subsidy, that is, the ceiling is necessary in principle and not in relation to the ratios, or the current Parliament, honourable ladies and gentlemen. The ceiling is necessary in principle, and not to be surprised if a new party appears, which receives a huge number of votes, that should accordingly receive a disproportionate and unnecessary large party subsidy. So, colleagues, we are opening the debate on the ceiling, about the annual ceiling of the subsidy. You can tell me that we are wrong that this ceiling is low or high, we will also hear your proposal, but there must be a ceiling, because tomorrow in a mandatory vote, five or six million Bulgarian citizens can vote. Then what about the party subsidies? What if one party gets, like, three million votes? It's possible theoretically, and maybe someday it will. Does that mean she gets $33 million? lv. per year, subsidy. And is that really necessary to get to that kind of thing? So I call on you to wisely, constructively and fairly resolve this issue, to have a ceiling of party subsidies. What's it gonna be? We have proposed one option, let us also hear your proposals and the most reasonable one to be accepted. Thank you for your attention, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u181	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed, the vote is pending. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Slavov, Dimitrov and Andreev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 108 MPs: 30, against 39, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 63 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 71, against 10, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u182	Articles 64, 65 and 66 including, supported by the Commission, by an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u183	Statements? I won't. We vote members with numbers 64 to 66 inclusive. Voted 103 MPs: 81 against 9, abstention 13. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u184	Article 67. Proposal of the MP Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs: It's five o'clock. Art. Paragraph 67. 1 is amended as follows: The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 67
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u185	Statements? Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u186	Madam President, honourable Members! We believe that the budget surplus generated fully allows the fiscal reserve not only for next year to serve the negative budget balance or budget deficit seamlessly, but also the restructuring of Bulgaria's external debt on the one hand. On the other hand, we believe that in the current 2017 budget, which we are looking at, revenue is greatly underestimated, and also the forecasts given for economic growth, and we believe that in this direction the numbers will be very different, which will further increase the revenue and give additional opportunities for the state budget. And last but not least, the increase in government debt will contribute very directly to the financial and budgetary framework of the state, on the one hand, and on the other, the macro-economic processes, as the increase in foreign debt will greatly reduce foreign direct investments in Bulgaria. These are economic dependencies that are very trendy. Especially in the last few years, we have had a serious shortage of foreign direct investment, and it is differentiated by feathers that allow for even economic growth. In this direction, we believe that the purpose of the state budget is to seek the restart of the Bulgarian economy and not the generation of new external debt, which will put us in additional financial difficulties, if I may say so. That's why we offer in art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1 to drop the text by assuming government debt for 2017, and we rely on your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u187	Any lines to Mr. Belemezov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Ms. Mariana Todorova and a group. The Commission does not support this proposal. 88 MPs voted: 19 against 33, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 67 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 77, against 10, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u188	I propose an anblock vote of members from 68 to 83 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 68 to 83 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u189	We vote. They voted 99 MPs: 78, against 5, abstention 16. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u190	Article 84. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84 and offers the following version of para. 3: The amount of the liabilities of the municipalities under programmes co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Fisheries Fund, for financial corrections imposed and/or for interest-free loans from the central budget to finance payments under projects with financial corrections imposed for the 2007-2013 programming period, outstanding on 31 December 2016 shall be reduced by 80 per cent by the conclusion of a tripartite agreement between the managing authority of the operational programme, the minister of finance and the mayor of the municipality concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u191	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u192	Madam President, I would like to propose to the House an amendment to be made in para. Article 6 The 84th sentence to the second sentence to be dropped.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u193	Any lines to Mrs. Stoyanova? I won't. Any other MPs? There aren't any. The debate is closed and we are going to vote. First, I vote on Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's proposal made in the debate on art. 84.................................................................................. Article 6 84 drop sentence two and read as the edit paragraph: "The reduction of the amount of the obligation under para. 3 is a one-time thing. There was a contradiction and you, Mrs. Stoyanova, corrected it with your proposal. We vote on Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal. Vote 92 MPs: 80 against 8, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for art. 84 with a new version of para. 3 which the Commission proposes on the report, in line with the change made under para. 6. Please vote. Vote 98 MPs: 77 against 8, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u194	Under art. 85 The Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u195	Vote art. 85 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 74 against 8, abstention 11. Article 85 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u196	Under art. 86 The Commission shall support the text of the importer, with the following wording: 4. In application of the restriction under art. 32, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act includes payments made under the principal of bank loans type overdraft/revolving loans.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u197	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 86 with a new version of the Commission report under para. 4. Vote 97 MPs: 79 against 8, abstention 10. Article 86 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u198	Articles 87 and 88 shall be by importer. The Commission supports them. Under art. 89 The Commission shall support the text of the importer, with the following wording: 3: The Mayor's proposal under para. 2 shall be presented to the Ministry of Finance under conditions and in order laid down by the Minister of Finance. Articles 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98 and 99 by importer are supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u199	Statements? I won't. Vote art. Art. 87 and 88 by importer, Art. 89 with a change in para. 3 in accordance with the Commission report and Articles 90 to 99, including by importer, fully supported by the Commission. We vote. 100 MPs voted: 79, against 12, abstention 9. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u200	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Paragraphs 1 to 7 include an importer supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u201	Are there any statements on the proposals reported? I won't. We are voting on the name "Transitional and concluding provisions" together with paragraphs 1 to 7 including by importer, fully supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 79, against 12, abstention 12. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u202	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 8 by the following wording: ................................................................................... In the Law on Municipal Debt (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 is created "7." financing of projects through financial instruments within the meaning of art. 2, p. 11 of Regulation No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 laying down common provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and laying down general provisions on the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund and the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1083/2006 (OJ L 347,320, p. 20 December 2013.) (hereinafter referred to as the Regulation No "the Regulation', by financial intermediaries selected by the Fund Manager of financial instruments in Bulgaria "the EAD', based on an open, transparent, proportionate and non-discriminatory procedure. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1 is created t. 6: It's six. projects through financial instruments within the meaning of art. 2, p. 11 of Regulation 1303/2013 by financial intermediaries selected by the Fund Manager of financial instruments in Bulgaria 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 3 is added after the word "supplier" or "supplier." 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17a, para. 2 is finally placed comma and added to the municipal debt taken to finance projects through financial instruments within the meaning of art. 2, p. 11 of Regulation 1303/2013 by financial intermediaries selected by the Fund Manager of financial instruments in Bulgaria 5. In the name of Chapter 5 after the word............................................................................................................ 6. Article 19 is amended as follows: Art. 19. The procedure for selecting a financial or credit institution or financial intermediary shall be conducted on the basis of an open, transparent and non-discriminatory procedure carried out under conditions and in order adopted by the municipal council. 7. Article 19a is amended as follows: Art. 19a. Article 19 shall not apply to projects to be financed by the Fund for Local Self-government Authorities in Bulgaria from the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Sources Fund, from the Urban Development Funds, as well as to finance projects through financial instruments within the meaning of art. 2, p. 11 of Regulation 1303/2013 by financial intermediaries selected by the Fund Manager of financial instruments in Bulgaria The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. Paragraph 10? a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In the Customs Act (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 14 is amended as follows: Art. 14. (1) The Customs Agency shall also be the administrator of the revenue from: 1. excise duties; 2. value added tax on imports of goods under art. 16 of the Value Added Tax Act; 3. duties; 4. fines and property penalties for customs and currency violations and under the Law on excises and tax warehouses; 5. amounts under art. 20 of the Currency Act and under art. 251, para. 2 of the Penal Code; 6. the fees collected by the Customs Agency at the border checkpoints, including fees under art. 10 of the Law on Roads; 7. other public or private government claims awarded for collection by the Customs Agency by law or other regulatory act. (2) The sums collected under para. 1, t. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF) and the (3) Under the budget of the Customs Agency, the revenue shall be paid: Article 1 12 and 13; 2. from the exploitation of property of state property, and from the provision of data; 3. of the printed editions under art. 7, para. 9; 4. by using the rest base; Art. 5. 78, para. 6 and 8 of the Civil Procedure Code. (4) The budget of the Agency shall be reported as revenue and the fees collected by the Agency under art. 29, para. 3 of the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1, t. 3a the 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 the words "sustaining accreditation by competent international organisations" shall be deleted; (b) in para. 2 is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. hold accreditation by competent international organisations or meet the following conditions: (a) maintain an electronic register by which verification of the existence and status of traders is carried out in real time for their legal or authorised representatives and their signatures; (b) there are regional structures in all areas of the country; (c) ensure the possibility of electronic submission of data and forms for issuing certificates of origin; (d) maintain a database of all issued certificates of origin and documentation to them with the possibility of providing access to bodies, institutions and/or organisations with competence in this area; (e) does not carry out a forwarding, transport or export activity. (c) in para. 3 is created t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. Declaration of the circumstances under para. 2, p. Point 5 (e) (iii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 240 para. 2 is amended as follows: After deduction of the costs incurred, the amounts under para. 1 and the amounts representing the equivalent of the goods taken in favour of the State, where they are missing or alienated, shall be deposited in the revenue of the central budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u203	Statements under paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 of the Commission's version? I won't. We vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u204	Vote 107 MPs: 85 against 14, abstention 8. Paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u205	Paragraph 11? a proposal from the National Representative Grozdan Karadjov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and does not support the proposal under point 1. 2 et c. 3: "2." In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior (prom., SG No. ...), § 76 is amended as follows: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss When concluding the employment contracts of the persons referred to in § 70 and § 75, a basic monthly remuneration shall be determined so that the same, reduced by the tax due, is not lower than that received at the date of entry into force of that law, determined under the Law on the Ministry of Interior and including a salary for office and additional remuneration for serviced time. 3. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior (prom., SG No. ...), in § 82, the entry into force of this Act Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made on the basis of art. 80, para. Five of the subs. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In the Act for the Ministry of Interior (prom., SG No. ...), the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 250 is repealed. 2. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on the Ministry of Interior (GD, SG No. ...), in § 102, point is created. 3: "3." Paragraph 22, § 73 "75, § 76, relating to persons under § 75, § 77, § 78, as regards persons under § 73, § 79, as regards persons under § 73, § 80, and § 89, p. 2 - 5 which shall enter into force from 1 January 2018 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u206	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote an unsupported part of the proposal of the MP Grozdan Karadjov. They voted 104 MPs: 12, against 41, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 11 to 16 including, on the Commission's report. Vote 98 MPs: 79 against 13, abstention 6. Paragraphs 11 to 16 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u207	Paragraph 17 "Proposition of the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes the following version of § 17: Seventeen. In the Law on Credit Institutions (prom., SG No. ...), the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." banks and branches of banks operating on the territory of the country; (b) paragraph 6 is amended as follows: The system information shall be obtained against payment of fees according to a methodology defined by the Regulation under para. 4. (c) the creation of para. 7. The costs related to obtaining information from the system of state and judicial authorities, where there is a basis for this, are at the expense of the state budget and can be paid from the central budget on the basis of a contract concluded between the Ministry of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 3: (aa) the current t. 6 The courts shall perform in the case of a case of execution; the case shall take place. 9; bb) To be created t. 7 and 8: "7." Minister of Finance in respect of bank accounts and safes of budgetary organisations and persons under art. 156 of the Public Finance and Information Act under para. 10; 8. The Minister of Justice in connection with the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 655/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 establishing a European Order for the Preservation of Bank Accounts in order to facilitate the cross-border recovery of claims in civil and commercial matters (OJ L 189/59 of 27 June 2014).) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council) and Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 55, 12.1.2001, p. 1). (c) The creation of a t. 10: ..10. banks and branches of banks operating on the territory of the country. (b) paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The system information shall be obtained against payment of fees according to a methodology defined by the Regulation under para. 8. (c) the creation of para. 10-12: The electronic information system may also include a specific system for the accounts of the budgetary organisations and the persons referred to in art. 156 of the Public Finance Act, information characterised by these accounts and their holders, defined by the ordinance under para. 8, after prior coordination with the Minister of Finance. (11) The costs related to obtaining information from the system from the authorities and institutions under para. 3, p. 1-8 are at the expense of the state budget and can be paid from the central budget on the basis of a contract between the Ministry of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank. (12) The Minister of Finance and the Bulgarian National Bank may agree according to the order of art. 43, para. 2, p. 4 of the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank electronic exchange of information on the accounts and safes of the budgetary organizations and persons under art. 156 of the Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u208	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 17 on the Commission report. Vote 100 MPs: 78 against 16, abstention 6. Paragraph 17 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u209	Proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Menda Stoyanova for a new paragraph, which the Commission supports. The Commission proposes to establish § 18: .............................................................................. In the Law on the Court of Auditors (prom. DV, No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 5, t. 4 the word "workers" shall be replaced by "workers" and the words "except in the cases referred to in art. 54, para. 8, p. 1 and 2s are deleted. 2. In Art. 25, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 36, para. 3 is amended as follows: The employment of an employee may be terminated without notice when he has received the lowest possible annual assessment of the performance of the post within one month of receipt of the final assessment. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54, para. 13 and 14 are amended as follows: The Vice-President of the Court of Auditors shall draw a reasoned conclusion on the opinions referred to in para. 11 within 14 days of receipt. (14) Within three days of drawing up the conclusion, the Vice-President shall submit the report, the audit opinion, the opinions referred to in para. 11 and the reasoned conclusion. The Court of Auditors shall, by its decision, adopt a final audit report and an audit opinion based on an overall assessment of the evidence, opinions under para. 11 and the conclusion, which may accept or reject, in whole or in part, the conclusion and proposals made to it and accept, amend or revoke, in whole or in part, findings, conclusions, evaluations and recommendations in the audit report and the format of an audit opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u210	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 18 with its respective content in accordance with the Commission report. They voted 104 MPs: 82, against 13, abstention 9. Paragraph 18 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u211	Proposal by the MP Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph: It's being created. "1." §... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 3 of the Law on Political Parties (Obn. DV. No. ...) is amended as follows: The State subsidy granted to each coalition represented in the National Assembly shall be distributed among the parties forming it under an up-to-date coalition agreement. The coalition agreement on the allocation of the state subsidy was updated when it was signed after the entry into force of the Annual Act on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria by all parties forming the coalition. In the absence of an up-to-date coalition agreement on the allocation of the state subsidy, the same shall be allocated in proportion to the number of MPs from individual parties. The Ministry of Finance shall transfer the share of the subsidy to each party in the account indicated by it. 2. ZID of the Law on Political Parties shall enter into force as of January 1st 2017. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov, Metodi Andreev to create a new paragraph: A new § is being created...: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In the Law on Political Parties (Obn., SG No. ...) in art. 25, para. 2 the text is added to the budget: for a party or coalition can not exceed 1 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u212	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Rumen Yonchev, Georgi Kovachev, Yavor Haytov, Svetlin Tanchev and Borislav Iglev to create a new paragraph with its respective content, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 10, against 52, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 14 against 36, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u213	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u214	We vote § 18 by importer, which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 19. We are voting § 19 on the Commission report. Voted 103 MPs: 79 against 16, abstention 8. Paragraph 19 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u215	Mr. Chairman, before we vote on the last paragraph, we need to get back to art. 1 as it has been voted by importer after the vote on Art. 1. 16 and the amendments which occurred in art. 16 which voted on this House must make appropriate adjustments in art. 1. I'll report them now. The first correction in accordance with art. 16, is precisely in the II "Costs" where the amount should become 11 billion. The Commission 624.1. Further on in t. 2, that is, Capital expenditures and that is to say, the sum must be 2 billion. The Commission 428.2. ..2.1. "Acquiring fixed assets and major repairs, the amount is 1 billion. The Commission 967,4. In Section III, Budget Relations and Transfers, the amount becomes 10 billion. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, 965.9. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 The amount becomes 10 billion. The Commission 419.9. In point (a), point (a) The amount becomes 420 million. 485.8. Paragraph 1.7.1. From the Ministry of Education and Science the amount becomes 394 million. 749.8. Point 1.8. The amount becomes 90 million. 837. Paragraph 1.8.1. The amount becomes 88 million from the Education Department. 287. These are the adjustments to be voted on in art. 1 and then, maybe, the whole art. 1 with these adjustments.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u216	They are in connection with the already adopted article. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u217	They are related to the adopted text of art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u218	First, I shall put to the vote the proposal to go back to examining art. 1. Please vote. They voted 115 MPs: for 102, against none, abstentioned 13. The motion is accepted. We're going back to voting on art. 1 in the version in which it was presented by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Menda Stoyanova. Once again, I remind you that this is about the adopted changes in art. 16. Please vote on the proposals made by the parliamentary platform. They voted 115 MPs: 47, none against, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. Professor Velikov, you want a re-vote procedure, I presume. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u219	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I suggest a name check before the re-vote. [[Replyes: No law.]] Why doesn't he have the right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u220	The right of parliamentary groups to name a check has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u221	First a name check, then a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u222	One and the other is exhausted. Do you want a re-vote or not? [[Reply from the National Representative Borislav Veliev.]] And there you have a limit of one time by a parliamentary group. [[Noise and lines.]] Do you want a re-vote or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u223	Before the break.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u224	There's no rest. There's no demand for re-voting. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u225	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm doing a re-voting procedure. There was a clear will of the National Assembly at the adoption of art. 16. I think we should finish the budget work and cover it in art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u226	Revoting procedure. To clarify why there is no right to rest has not expired an hour since the previous break. They voted 126 MPs: 53, against 2, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova, maybe we should get back to art. 16 now?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u227	I don't know. [[Noise and lines.]] Well, that's why you don't do that. Mr. Chairman, we have to vote before the end and the apps that are to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u228	We're back on art. 1. The proposals have not been accepted. We are voting on the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u229	For art. 1?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u230	Yeah. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 1. Voted 103 MPs: 81 against 17, abstention 5. We've got art. 1 in version of the importer. Negative vote please, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Another argument to explain to you why negative vote. Speaking of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, your government has not included the Academy on the European Commission list for direct participation in projects, which is why the only opportunity to finance Bulgarian scientists at the Academy of Sciences is this. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u232	Please, please, order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u233	... As a result of a disagreement that you mess with Bulgarian science, we protest and leave the hall. [[The Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria leaving the hall. Noise and lines by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u234	Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, you have the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps here I should address you and be able to summon someone to come and explain right now what happened. Currently, in this vote, if you sum up revenue, expenditure and budget deficit, as well as individual items, you have a 10 and a half million discrepancy under art. 1, which also arises from...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u236	Now we're going to vote art. 16...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u237	Now we're going to vote art. 16 and we'll have a match.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u238	Ah, you've found a procedure by which you don't give the money to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u239	It's a way of keeping... Come in the manner of conduct, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u240	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner in which you conduct the meeting. I ask you not to use the negative vote procedure, that is, not to allow negative vote procedure to make statements on the substance and to speak untruths about operational programmes and other sources of funding. Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is not excluded as an opportunity. On the contrary, this can be traced in the transcript of the meeting of the Committee on Education and Science, where the budget is examined, where both higher schools and BAS expressed their opportunities for participation in the Operational Programme. The fact that they chose to do so in the form of a consortium in order to have greater opportunities is their own decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u241	And more in number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u242	That's right, and participate in more projects. Dear colleagues, 560 million BGN are the means of science and research. So both higher schools and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences can be used from these funds. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u243	The chairman of the sitting must have unlimited opportunities to know who speaks untruths from the parliamentary tribune. The way you're running things? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u244	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making a procedural proposal in the manner of conduct. Obviously this point is over, please move on to the next one. If it has not become clear to colleagues today, we voted to give money to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which they will not receive. We're closing the subject and moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u245	I can't lead to prevent it or steer it in another direction. You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova, if we're done with the management procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u246	Since we have an additional report, Mr. Leader, who in his first part under art. 16 voted. However, I return to its second part, which is for Annex 3 where it was reflected, namely the transfer from the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science for State Higher Schools and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2017, according to the table attached to the Additional Report. There is a change in the amounts in item. The amount is 88 million in Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. 287,0 thousand. BGN, c. 15. "St. Sofia University" (St. Kliment Ohridski. The amount is 52 million. $10.7,000. lv. And in the sum, it's all 483 million. 036,8 thousand. lv. Please put to the vote this report by the Commission, which generally supports the text of the importer for Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4 and offers this version, which is in connection with art. 16, which was accepted. So now, I don't know, we have to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u247	However, I suggest that you make an offer to go back to art. 16. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u248	Otherwise it's single, something you have to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u249	In the same way it was done with art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u250	Yes, you're right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u251	You're making such an offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u252	I do, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u253	I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Menda Stoyanova to review art. 16 in connection with the vote under art. 1. We're going back to look at art. 16 in relation to what we voted under art. 1 to get the compliance that Mr. Alexandrov spoke just a moment ago.. match between revenues and expenses. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: 69 against 8, abstention 1. We're going back to art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u254	Article 16 of the Commission's Additional Report, which we voted on a short time ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u255	Which we now have to reject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u256	Yes, to the Main Report, No 653-02-79 of 30.11.2016. ............................................... 16, which we adopted with this supplementary report, which the Commission supported by supporting, in principle, the text of the carrier and proposing an amendment in line with the supported proposal of Mr. Borislav Velikov and a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u257	We are voting at the moment what we have adopted on an additional report, which includes the editing of the MP Mr. Velikov. We are voting on the motion adopted on the Additional Report of the Budget Committee, which should be rejected. Vote 85 MPs: 15 against 1, abstention 69. The proposal on the Additional Report is not accepted. We return to the text of the importer for art. 16. Vote art. 16 by importer. Vote 85 MPs: 76 against 8, abstention 1. We have accepted the text of art. 16 by importer. We are now going back to voting on the Supplement to the Additional Report. Here you are, Mr. Angelov. Probably for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u258	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! My procedure is as follows. I suggest that all texts under point be reworded. 4 on the agenda from the beginning.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u259	There's no need for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u260	I'm proposing a procedure. If Mrs. Stoyanova is allowed the procedure, you must also allow my procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u261	They've already been voted out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u262	It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u263	Let us end the vote on this text. Revoting? There's no re-voting. We continue with the Additional Report, Annex 3. [[Reply of Julian Angelov.]] This procedure is inadmissible under the procedure you are doing, I regret the tautology. We are voting on a specific text, you are making a proposal on the whole bill. Wait till we see this vote. Let's end this text, then you can do for the entire bill, if you want to go back down to the NHIF. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u264	According to the Additional Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, in the Report No 653-02-79 of 30.11.2016, for art. 16 and Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4. The Commission generally supported the text of the importer for Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4, proposed a version of this Annex "Transfers from the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science for State Higher Schools and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for 2017 in which. 1, t. 15 and the congregation were all reflected the previously adopted proposals of Mr. Velikov, namely in point. 1 number became 88 million. 287,0 thousand BGN, t. The 15th number became 52 million. 100,7 thousand BGN. And in the sum, it's all 483 million. 036,8 thousand BGN We need to reschedule this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u265	I would like to rethink the adjustments made in Annex 3 in relation to Mr. Velikov's proposals, which were not adopted under art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 16. We are voting for such corrections in order to conclude the Additional Report. They voted 91 MPs: 18, against 28, abstention 45. The corrections in Annex 3 to the Additional Report have not been adopted. Mr. Angelov, do you want to accept this paragraph because it will remain unvoked if your proposals are accepted?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u266	I want the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u267	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u268	Mr. Chairman, I propose a re-voting of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 4 to begin voting from the very beginning from the title of the Law to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u269	Without § 19, which we haven't voted yet?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u270	I said, until the end of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u271	At the end of the Law, there are § 19 and applications without them, right? Okay. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u272	This is the school of Bayraktarov! [[Noise, lines and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u273	A vote could show that it's absurd. Vote 82 MPs: for 7, against 62, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. § 19, please, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u274	Paragraph 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u275	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 19, which shall, after support from the Commission, become § 20. We are voting § 20 on the Commission report. Vote 73 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 19, which becomes § 20 in the Commission's report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u276	Finally, Mr President, Annexes 1 to 9 to the Commission's report under the 2017 State Budget Act, which there are no...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u277	Yeah, they're an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u278	Yeah, they're an importer. So we are voting on Annexes 1 to 9 by importer, which the Commission has supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-01.u279	I put to the vote Annexes 1 to 9 including, in accordance with the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Vote 81 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 3. Annexes 1 to 9 to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance have been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. [[Noise and lines.]] Communication for Parliamentary Control on 2 December 2016, Friday 11.00: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of the Interior in Retirement Rumyana Bachvarova will answer two questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Vesselinov. 2. The Minister of Justice in Retire Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer two questions from the MP Krasimir Jankov. 3. The Minister of Agriculture and Foods in Retirement Dessislava Taneva will answer 6 questions from the MPs Dora Yankova. Two questions; Dimitar Delchev; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Ivan Stankov and Petar Kadiev; and Georgi Kadiev. 4. The Minister of Finance in Retirement Vladislav Goranov will answer four questions from the MPs Nikola Hadzhiyski; Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; and Georgi Tarnovalyski, Manol Genov and Stefan Danailov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of the Interior in Retirement Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science in Retirement Meglena Kuneva to a question from the Parliamentary Representative Magdalena Tasheva; 4 questions with a written answer from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy in Retirement Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Ivan Slavov; - Minister of Finance in Retirement Vladislav Goranov to 2 questions with written answer from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Defence in Retirement Nikolay Nenchev to a question from the MPs Ivan Valkov and Dimitar Boychev; - the Minister of Economy in Retirement Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; and to a question written by the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Agriculture and Forests in Retirement Desislava Taneva to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - the Minister of Environment and Waters, retired Ivelina Vasileva, to a question from the National Representative Katya Popova; and to two questions written by the MPs Willi Lilkov; and Kristian Vigenin. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Environment and Waters, Ivelina Vassileva; - a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; and a question from the National Representative Boyka Marinska to the Minister of Agriculture and Food in Retirement Dessislava Taneva; - a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev to the Minister of Economics in Retirement Bozidar Lukarski. Due to pre-contribution of an international nature, the parliamentary control meeting will not take part in.. The Minister of Health in Retirement Petar Moskov. Due to previous commitments, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting; the Minister of Energy retired Temenuzhka Petkova. In the absence of the country, the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting, Daniel Mitov. And tomorrow December 2nd, we continue with the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, a joint project drawn up by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 15 June 2015 with importers Rumen Yonchev in the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016, in the Council of Ministers on 28 April 2016. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda scheduled for today, I am closing today's meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
