ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. Two messages: On 30 March 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 30 March 2016 to 25 March 2016 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 March 2016 to 25 March 2020. No 639-00-6, the National Assembly received a Report from the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period from 25 February to 24 March 2016 and Protocol No 18 from a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received material from the National Statistical Institute, containing results of statistical research on a common index of producer prices in industry and indexes at prices of producer on the domestic and international market for February 2016. The material is also available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 25 March to 31 March 2016: - from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Mariana Boyadjieva to Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science, on the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science for the Development of Vocational Education, should be answered by the plenary sitting on 8 April 2016; - from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva to Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science, on the Cadastral Map Movement of the Student City, should be answered in writing by 8 April 2016; - from the National Representative Slavi Binev to Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism, on the policy of maintaining and preserving the sea beaches in the Republic of Bulgaria, should be answered in the plenary session on 8 April 2016. Written answers: - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on six issues by the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin to two questions from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva to a question from the National Representative Stefan Zhelev; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - from the Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on a request from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva; - from Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to a question from the National Representative Angel Naydenov; - additional information from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to answer a question from the MPs Cornelia Ninova and Dora Yankova; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski. The current parliamentary control begins with the answers of Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for the Interior. Previously, Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u2	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Mrs Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to introduce: DECLARATION on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I would like to express our amazement and bitterness, as well as our strong objection and condemnation of immeasurable qualifications, cynical insults and unrevealed xenophobic messages, which we have seen from the media in recent days. We categorically define these statements as a hate speech, namely according to a recommendation from the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, these are forms of expression that spread, encourage, justify racial hatred, xenophobia based on intolerance, including one that leads to aggressive nationalism, ethnicism, discrimination and hostility towards minorities, immigrants and migrants. People with the self-esteem of popular intellectuals and representatives of power have allowed themselves unacceptable statements for modern European Bulgaria, I quote one said: Another former constitutional judge with unhealthy pathos and fervor in his eyes said: The refugees are criminals and aggressors. And more: The refugees are loaded and returned, using extremely obscene speech and cynical insults. A third intellectual at an improvised pajama party said: "Islam is not a religion, but a political doctrine. We exclude Islam from the list of religions and start beating it. Refugees should be baptized and sent to work camps. A representative of the government said, moving over the Hungarian prime minister, that the era of multiculturalism is over and Europe must forget the passive value tolerance and recognize respect as a value. Such opinions, expressed in such a genuine way, with such natural articulation, especially by people with the claims of popular intellectuals, make the public environment a toxic environment. Intellect by presumption has no common points with humanism and hatred, does not refuse the manifestation of elementary tolerance. Moreover, this is a vivid demonstration of the poverty of the mind and the humanitarian mind. These words are the pouring of oil into the already hot fire of primitive nationalism, especially expressed by a minister. The initial use of dramatic and cruel human tragedies to support these individuals is an inhumane act incompatible with the value projection of the Republic of Bulgaria. And the suggestion and the direct correlation between refugees and terrorism is an unhealthy and manipulative thesis. Multiculturalism and also slightly different cultural pluralism allow for the fact that more than one cultural tradition is possible within a country. This is caused by natural causes, the existence of various religious and ethnic communities. The inverse environment of monoculture does not allow any other culture outside the dominant culture. It can be considered to be the identity of a homogeneous religious or homogeneous ethnic society. Whether these intellectuals understand that when extracting this definition, one unwittingly immediately makes an association with the actions of a Serb leader who, after his inhumane efforts, really literally his inhuman efforts to achieve a homogeneous society in part of Bosnia, destroying tens of thousands, was recently convicted by The Hague tribunal for crimes against humanity. If we go back to Nazi Germany, we can also find many, indeed very convincing examples such as attempts to achieve monoculture and a homogeneous nation by a satrap. The same one explained in a similar way the differences in culture, regarded them as different, as unfit biological species. At such an attempt to homogenize society, although more measured, we witnessed some of the participants in Bulgaria during the totalitarian regime between 1982 and 1985. Then an attempt was made to eliminate the scars of a different culture, namely customs, traditions, clothing, language and names. And then, and now Bulgaria is a multiethnic, multilingual, multicultural, multireligious country. This is a fact valid for all modern civilized countries. Denial of multiculturalism means a parallel denial of the unique model of tolerance in our society, which also has recognition from the international community and was called the Bulgarian ethnic model. An intellectual by presumption must preserve respect for man, respect for different communities and humanism, and in all circumstances! Ethnocentralism, religious intolerance, racism and, in principle, the rejection of elementary tolerance and xenophobia should not be encouraged, but should be criticised. This is an axiomatic principle set by the democratic, by the man-loving, by the European values in the modern world. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms calls on all democratic forces in the country and the progressive Bulgarian public to show concern and to oppose such statements that provoke hatred between people. We recall that any public inspiration of hatred, discrimination and fear on this basis in modern democratic countries is unacceptable to society, unacceptable to the individual in this society as well. The rise in sensitivity to such manifestations forms a natural resistance of society to xenophobia. The DPS parliamentary group strongly condemns any manifestation and any statement of xenophobia and intolerance to differences, any attempt to deliberately provoke Islamophobia. We call for responsibility for the media, which should not be a tributary of suggestion and those expressed in hate speech. We appeal to authorized state institutions to show adequate sensitivity to protect people's rights and dignity, as well as to the universal values underlying statehood. From its founding until now, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms continues to be a serious barrier to the fillings of anti-European and anti-human these. Our wise voter says: The most precious gift with which the Most High has given man is the feeling of measure. With respect and peace, we call on everyone to have a measure in their words and in their manifestations. " - Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u3	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. On behalf of a group, come in, Mrs. Sokolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! Since the beginning of the management mandate of GERB and the government of Boyko Borisov, a large part of the reforms we promised to Bulgarian citizens have already been implemented. The government has achieved a remarkable growth in the economy recognised by a number of analysts. The Ministry of Finance, through its revenue agencies, has significantly increased in comparison with past years the collection of income from taxes, social security, excise duties and thus further guarantees the financial stability of the country and has increased the government's ability to redistribute these revenues in the interests of citizens. In the last two years the unemployment rate in the country has decreased by 2% from 12.2% in Oresharski to 10.2% in Borisov 2. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The political will of the government and the personal will of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov for the fight against corruption and organized crime provided the opportunity for all additional financial resources from which the gray sector was deprived to be redirected to the Bulgarian municipalities, infrastructure and economy. Yes, we still have a lot of work to do, but citizens need to know that social measures in their interest are a major commitment of the government of Borisov and the parliamentary majority. Without unnecessary noise and fanfare, we have stabilized the sector..................................................................................................... In the election program of GERB we placed three priorities in the energy sector. All three have already been completed. The first priority was to clear the deficits in NEK (National Electricity Company) inherited from the Oresharski cabinet. Not only did we melt the 800 million. lv. deficit, but we expect 200 million tariff surplus only for the last regulatory period, and without changing the price of electricity. Our second priority was the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme and so far we have concluded more than 2000 contracts. Our third priority was the launch of research in the deep Black Sea and on 19 April we begin the first drilling in the history of Bulgaria, which will guarantee both the energy independence of the country and the lower price of energy resources for households and the economy. As a result of the stabilized environment and international processes today, KEWRC has determined that the price of gas in the country is falling by 23%. This will affect both households and the economy. They're gonna drop prices. In addition, the price of electricity that heat efficiency companies produce in a highly efficient way also seriously decreases and varies between 14 and 20% in a fall. The price of heating from all heating sources in the country is also cheaper, and in Sofia this is close to 6%, in Pleven with nearly 9%; in Burgas and Varna with nearly 5%; in Vratsa and Razgrad with nearly 12%. In addition, our energy is in good condition and from today every consumer can change its electricity supplier if competition on the free market offers it better and better conditions. We should note that for the last winter the State granted aid for heating of more than 237 persons and families. This was possible after the government of Boyko Borisov approved the additional expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of 13 million. lv. We can also note that 60% of Bulgarian pensioners will receive a 40 BGN supplement for Easter. to your pensions. This was possible because the government of Boyko Borisov gave 50.5 million. lv. additionally, after it became clear that in the first months of the year, the overexecution of the insurance revenue was around 61 million. lv. Thus, for the holiday they will receive more than 1 million. 262 thousand. The guy. We recall that for Christmas, the government also granted about 1 million. 275,000. people 40 leva. an addition to their pensions for December. The approved additional funds amounted to 51 million. lv. The government of Boyko Borisov adopted a National Employment Action Plan in 2016. More than 21 000 people will start working and additional training will be provided to about 11 000 others. For this purpose 73 million were provided. lv. Only days ago Borisov's government granted an additional 12 million. lv. patients with cancer. Thus, 100% coverage of the treatment by the National Health Insurance Fund is already guaranteed in 2016, and the funds are being allocated again thanks to the good work of the revenue agencies. These are only part of the concrete and visible results for the benefit of people achieved in just a year and a half. Yes, we also hear a lot of criticism at our address, we listen to the reasonable, but political correctness requires that when something good is done and achieved it is not denied by lies. And since we are always ready to answer the lies, we made a brief reference on the recent national air statements of a prominent socialist from Vidin District. He claimed that the government never did anything about the state of the roads in Vidin. Turns out he was lying. Moreover, more than the two management mandates of BSP with Prime Ministers Sergey Stanishev and Plamen Oresharski in Vidin region were renovated only 45 km of roads. Only during the government of the first term of GERB were repaired 57 km of roads, and by the end of the term of the second cabinet of Boyko Borisov will be completed 48 km of roads or a total of 105 km for both mandates we will finish twice as much in Vidin by you. So, socialist gentlemen, the word "socialist" and the fact that someone is from Vidin is not a guarantee of good social policy, but the work of the government and our MPs in all regions of the country, including Vidin, are a guarantee for the visible results achieved by GERB. Despite everything from GERB, we are convinced that the only way to achieve much of the visible political results is the political will and dialogue and all responsible political parties should respect this privy. That is why GERB will continue to impose this model of work, communication and good relationships. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u5	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u6	Thank you. Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! The only true part of the statement that was read just now is the date on which it is made "April 1st! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Happy April 1st, Bulgarian citizens! Happy first April, which takes into account two mandates, although the government's responsibility is for the current policy, for Bulgaria's current so-called reforms, which brought the Bulgarian doctors on the streets of the cities, which put the life and health of the Bulgarian citizens at constant, daily risk; reforms that make the scarce budget for education will be allocated to private schools; reforms that are reduced to the fact that about a year ago, a creditor cannot be found to take any commitments and provide funds, and at the same time the US power plants continue to be in the same relations as they were a year ago. It's about energy. In the municipalities, the generation of debt for a billion and 200, which will increasingly burden the local self-government and the lives of the citizens in these municipalities. Why is this crisis PR being made? Because more and more citizens understand that the government of today of Boyko Borisov, in Borisov's second term, leads the country to a pathlessness, leads the country to depopulation. The trend of population declines by 40,000. people per year in no way is the government's attention. More and more Bulgarians understand that it is one thing to talk, one thing to go on TV and another is to make roads, even in visionary terms. And because it was about this poorest region in the Northwest and Europe, when the new government came, road repair projects were stopped. Everyone who has passed through there knows what the roads in Northwestern Bulgaria look like. Anyone who's passed through there knows what the trends are in the economy. After all, the general talk cannot replace the feeling of Bulgarian citizens as a roadblock in which the government leads Bulgaria, for lack of awareness of the necessary measures for the country, for lack of awareness of the interests of Bulgaria in the European Union, for Schengen membership, for all other issues which should put the interests of Bulgarian citizens on the European stage and for European solidarity. Because brothers, friends Cameron, Juncker look to the interests of the big countries. Because the government cannot protect the interests of Bulgaria. And the last example was the Agreement with Turkey, in which Bulgaria did not defend its interests, in which Bulgaria once again became a hostage of good relations, patting on the back and photos before building with famous European politicians. More and more Bulgarian citizens understand that change is needed. They also understand that today's ruling coalition, torn apart by its internal contradictions, by the kitchen quarrels for ministerial posts, for allocation of funds, cannot give such a change to Bulgaria. An alternative is needed for the country and BSP left Bulgaria and the opposition force in this parliament will propose such an alternative. The other one's April 1st. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u7	We can start control now. The first question to Rumyana Bachvarova is from the MPs Nikolay Alexandrov and Atanas Zafirov about an illegal prayer home in Sofia and the activities related to it. There will also be a general answer to Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov's question about the activities of the Muslim Board of Directors in Lulin, Sofia Municipality. The first question from colleagues Alexandrov and Zafirov will be developed by Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u8	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Now that we've had a good laugh with the April 1st jokes of the government, it's time to move on to more serious topics.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u9	Sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u10	Our question is caused by television material, which has raised serious concerns about what is happening in the country. It is a room which does not correspond to the specifics mentioned in the official documents as a purpose for the use of the building. It turns out that the company, which is declared owner of the property, is related to a foundation on which one of the founders was expelled from the Republic of Bulgaria because of illegal preaching against the state. A gram is described by a former US ambassador to Bulgaria, claiming that the foundation, which is clearly related to the property ownership, aims to subdue the main mufti in Bulgaria through donations and thus create financial dependence. According to the Bulgarian services, this foundation aims to radicalize the Bulgarian Muslims. It is also disturbing in this case the presence of a national representative of this place, such as Hüseyin Hafuzov, as well as diplomatic vehicles from the following countries -- Yemen, Romania, Libya and Sudan. It is not clear who are others present at the meetings and prayers held on the territory of this property. It is clear, however, that political and religious ideology is being preached in the building. In this regard, Madam Minister, I ask you to answer us: what will the Ministry of Interior do about the apparent violation of the laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u11	The following is Mr. Karakachanov's question about the activities of the Muslim Board of Directors in Lyulin, Sofia Municipality.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u12	Mrs. President, Mrs. Bachvarova, honourable Members! In recent weeks, information about the so-called "Muslim temple" in the area of the capital district of Lyulin appeared again in the public domain. The terrain on which this so-called temple is located, disguised as a warehouse, is owned by the company Smolyan International. A partner in it is Hussain Odeh Abu-Kalbein, whose name is in a report by former US Ambassador Beyrle, as Chairman of the "Taiba" Foundation. Businesses related to the Tyba are operating as money transfer points to extremist groups in the Middle East. The "Taiba" Foundation itself is the benefit of two organizations preaching radical Islam, namely the "Dar al-Irshad" organization and the organization "Al-Vakf al-Islamiya" both banned in Bulgaria and in many European countries. In turn, the founder of the "Taiba" Foundation in Bulgaria, the Jordanite Abdurahmah Takan, has been expelled from Bulgaria to preach against the state. The aim of the Foundation was radicalization of the Bulgarian Muslim population and financial subjugation of the main mufti in Bulgaria. The same Foundation has supported financially the construction of the mosque in Pazardzhik, which the Bulgarian court found to be a place for preaching and planting religious hatred and intolerance to European Christian values. In the last few weeks, I have personally repeatedly been called upon by citizens of the capital district of Lyulin, who are seriously worried that the subject in question acts as a religious centre in which radical Islam is preached. Against the background of the events we observed in Brussels and in Paris a little earlier, people are concerned with reason. In this regard, and given the functional competence of the Ministry of Interior, I ask you the following few questions: Are you familiar with the work being carried out in this prayer home and are there grounds for concern that radical Islam is being preached there, aimed both at our national security, sovereignty and identity, and against our European partners? Is the Tyba Foundation currently active in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in any other form, or is it a beneficiary and, if so, are its links with the radical Islamic circles in the Middle East, Saudi Arabia and other parts of the world where terrorists are being prepared for the Middle East? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u13	A total response of six minutes "Mrs. Bachvarova."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u14	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable gentlemen of Zafirov, Alexandrov and Karakachanov! Information about persons and organizations preaching radical Islam in Bulgaria is only within the competence of the SANS. After an exquisite reference from them on the issues you are asking, I present to you the information that they felt I could expose in Parliament. In 2004, under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities was registered the "Taiba" Foundation with executives Husain Odeh and Al Suleiman. Husain Odeh Abu-Kalbain is a Bulgarian citizen of Jordanian origin and has been resident in our country since 1983. He is Chairman of the Association of Palestinians in Bulgaria. He's not a criminal. At the beginning of its registration the Foundation carried out its activities in cooperation with the Main Mufti and funded the construction of Muslim temples, organization of worships and training in Islam. Its activity was subsequently greatly reduced and limited to organizing the annual religious service in Saudi Arabia. Currently the registration of the Foundation is active, but since 2012 there is no data to develop activity. There is no data available from the Foundation or related entities to carry out activities threatening the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. With regard to the information we have in the Ministry of Interior, I can assure you that during the period from 2012 until now, no signals have been received from citizens for disorder of public order or on any other occasion by persons visiting the religious site. No reports of crimes committed in the area have been received by persons related to the house of prayer, as well as by the Muslim Board of Directors in the area of Lyulin. Initially, in 2012, there was a signal from citizens in the Ninth District Government that a number of people of Arabic origin were gathered at a separate car park in temporary buildings. Police officers who carried out the inspection have found that parking spaces are used as a prayer home of the Arab community. In the property near the entrance of the fence is located a room used as a club of the Palestinian community, their families, and also for religious prayers authorised by the main muftiry of Muslims in Bulgaria and the Department of Religions of the Council of Ministers. The creation of the house of prayer in the zhk "Lyulin" 6 was initiated by representatives of the Arab diaspora in our country. Their request is based on the existing practice in other European countries where similar Arabic prayer centers officially function because of the fact that religious service is conducted in a different language for Turkish and Arabic believers. At the moment, no evidence of the preaching of radical and extremist ideas has been received during the work carried out in the house of prayer. The priest in the prayer house is the Bulgarian citizen Ahmed Karafezov, who has a working contract with the Chief Mufti since February 2012. The position he holds under the contract is a ritualist. Karafazov is an alumnus of Jordanian University, where there is legalized by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria diploma for Bachelor of Theology. This data is also confirmed by the official Muslim confession in a declaration published on the website of the Main Mufti on 9 March this year. The same institution in an official publication of its website declares that it follows the worship and preaching process conducted there. The measures taken by the Ministry of Interior include a periodical tour of the prayer home area, monitoring and inspections of persons with questionable behaviour. The last two activities are carried out within the framework of the operation, which runs from last week.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u15	Opportunity for lines supposed each of two minutes. The first line is from Mr. Nikolai Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, dear Mrs. Bachvarova! I have a few questions that arise from this. You said that the organization since 2012 has no activity and the police officers on the ground have not established illegal and illegal activity. Then why do they make the rounds at certain intervals? The other one. I think that on Wednesday you were meeting with the Prime Minister and then you commented on them. Do you not find it a little strange that such meetings are attended by diplomatic persons of other countries in a home which is registered in Sofia Municipality as a shoe store, which in itself constitutes a violation because it is not registered as a prayer home. I don't know if there's even a mosque on the Main Mufti site or a prayer home. Do these things wake up in you any feeling that there may possibly be unauthorised activities there and do you have an inside man, a constant internal surveillance to say: yes, it is actually preached, not preached or there is an activity that is against the state, such as there has been information for 2004 of related persons to the organization that is related to the property ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u17	Mr. Karakachanov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u18	Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, it is good that the police of the Ninth District are patrolling, but I don't think that's enough. Bulgaria must impose much stricter control over such activities, especially when they are carried out in premises that, in fact, have nothing to do with prayer temples. That's one. Second of all, you say Main Mufti. Frankly, most of the Muslims in Bulgaria have long known that the Main Mufti has long been subordinate to a neighbouring country, commanded by its Ministry of Religion, financed from there, and not only from there, so I would not trust the opinions and opinions of the Chief Mufti. You say: as in other European countries there is a similar practice. In other European countries, practice has started to change over the past few years. In Switzerland it was forbidden to build some of the attributes of these prayer temples, very clear rules were introduced in Austria.................................................................................................... This is the new practice in Europe. I am sure that both in Belgium and France, after what happened in the last one there is-there is not a year, in fact such rules will be introduced. At the same time, foreign citizens are allowed in Bulgaria, people associated with Islamist foundations, because the mosque in Pazardzhik, which is a breeding ground for a radical Islam, is also built with the funds of this foundation. And one last thing. As it became clear from the media, there is a politician there that we all know who he is related to. It is related to the politics of a neo-Osmanist and Islamist, and it is related to the creation of a new ethnic party in Bulgaria, which will very clearly serve the interests of a neighbouring country and not the interests of Bulgarian citizens. The man who, from the stand of this National Assembly, declared outrageous statements. So by binding the foundation's activities, the practice of infiltrating foreign citizens into the Muslim community, or through them to preach radical Islam and to finance such groups of radical Islamists, and that there is a political person there who does not hide his admiration for neo-Osmanism in neighbouring Turkey, are more than disturbing to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u19	More doppelganger within four minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u20	Gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech, I have pointed out to you that the institution that deals with the problems and issues you are putting is SANS. What I have presented to you is what I can present to you. I can assure the MPs that together with the DANS and the Ministry of Interior we are closely monitoring the development of the situation in the country. The meetings we have on this subject are on Monday, not Wednesday. It's another meeting on Wednesday. There are no diplomatic representatives involved. We monitor every single signal every day and the development of these signals. I can assure everyone that at the moment there is no finding of threat in our country, both by a terrorist act and by disturbing signs of radicalisation. Finally, I can say that the Ministry of Interior is not an institution that will restrict religious rights. The political debate itself is at your disposal here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u21	Next is a question of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov regarding compliance with the legislation. A specific question please, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u22	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me this honor to specify it from the parliamentary platform. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, dear Mrs. Bachvarova! My question is focused on the area of the Law on Road Traffic and Rules, which is to it, precisely in the fact that we have recently witnessed both television screens and in our practice as drivers, we are faced with the fact that the Bulgarian drivers are becoming more aggressive and more often the legislation of the road is not respected. We see that it has become a custom and practice to give out fist law, already with bats, and so on. This led to an accident and a ridiculous death in Vratsa, resulting in a number of fractures, serious injuries and injuries of Bulgarian citizens. This thing needs to be stopped. It is not normal in the 21st century in a Member State of the European Union, normal, reasonable and thinking people to react in this way. In my practice, in 12 years as a driver, I've never encountered the more aggressive drivers I've seen lately. In my conversations with my loved ones and acquaintances, we come to the conclusion that this fist right can be seen more and more often when citizens seize the functions of justice in their own hands and solve their problems on the street with their two hands, without turning to the legal bodies for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u23	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u24	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Alexandrov! Indeed, in recent weeks, we have seen extremely violent cases of self-harm between road users. In the cases occurring on the Crossroads and on Blvd. In Sofia, after the complaints of infringement, the officers of the police have taken all the necessary actions, and two pre-trial proceedings have been initiated in IV of the regional management of the SDVR. In this regard, an order was issued to the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior for specialized police operations that are ongoing and are likely to be permanent. They aim both to improve the culture and discipline of road drivers and to comply with traffic rules. At the moment, by March 29, in fact, 2447 persons and 1546 cars were checked. Police officers shall exercise traffic control through the effective use of video surveillance systems both for prevention, detection and countering crime and for crossing anti-social events. Cameras located on nodes, pedestrian zones, buildings and facilities with public access allow for extremely rapid monitoring of the operational situation and timely response of police authorities. They support coordination, power management during specialized police operations. Upon receipt of an alert for the occurrence of such incidents against offenders, the relevant procedures under the Code of Criminal Procedure shall be taken and the provisions of the Criminal Code shall apply. Regarding the specific legislative measures that we have taken, I would like to remind you that, as early as the summer of last year, together with the MPs from the Transport Commission, the Prosecutor General and the Ministers of Regional Development and Transport, we conducted an analysis of the road situation in the country. Within the various competences of the state authorities that we represent, we have united around measures to reduce traffic traumatism. We formed a working group in which texts were drawn up for amendments to the Law on Road Traffic and the Penal Code. A change with the Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code was envisaged against the participants in the movement who were aggressively acting. The changes concern the creation of a new para. 3 to art. 325 of Chapter 10 of the Penal Code and provide for imprisonment for up to three years, deprivation of the right to pursue a particular profession or activity of persons who are aggressive and resort to self-mutilation on the road. I hope that this proposal will be supported by the majority of MPs and by its final vote at second reading, which I also hope will happen soon, because the activation of the road season is coming up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Alexandrov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Ministers! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, it is a good thing to have sanctions in the Law and the legislator to use them, but I am not only talking about the catch-up function, but I am talking about the preventive function of the Ministry of Interior, which should actually be. And I'm going to tell you an example that happened to me maybe the week I wrote the question. I can tell you the exact date. From the capital Five Police Department, located near the boulevard of Janko Sakizov, a patrol from the respective street with three police officers, of which one wears a reflective vest accordingly. They reach a crossroads with a pedestrian path. On the crosswalk, he stopped a taxi with an open door. The cops are dropping the jar. The taxi driver pulls out a glass, shows them the glass, takes his glass, and the cops keep going. That's the attitude. Not to mention that respectively not only in Sofia, but in a number of places in the country there are road signs that are not respected accordingly. They've also been given signals. This is an example of the capital district of Reduta, where signals from residents have been reported. My idea is, as I understand the problem that there are a lot of problems in the Ministry as a whole, problems in terms of both the staff and the hours in which they work, and you have personally said recently what amounts will be needed to pay off the overtime, that the Ministry should also act in this direction for a prevention in order not to reach such situations on the road. I understand that the other thing that is is personal in us as drivers, that is, to be better drivers, to be more tolerant of others on the road, and indeed there are such people. But there are also those who break and do it systematically. There are signals about this thing. There are also citizens who do not perceive the Bulgarian policeman in the way he was perceived in the past and in a way that corresponds to the hose and the uniform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u27	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u28	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. I would like to say to the honourable Members that, in any case where they find an infringement, they may send a signal and, for any signal, when it is submitted, I guarantee that it will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, for your response and for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the questions asked to Meglena Kuneva as Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science, which will answer first a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev about the need to change the Order of the Council of Ministers No 94 of 13 March 1997, introducing summer time. You have the floor, Mr. Enchev, for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u30	Mrs. Kuneva, I address you as Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues. I believe that the time has come to speak openly, directly about the need to abolish the Council of Ministers' decree from 1997, entering summer time. The time has come to speak openly without complying with the European directives on this issue, which are also not mandatory. Many research shows that the economic effect of changing time has been unproven, but the damage to citizens has been proven. A study by nine European universities found that summer time, summer time has a direct link to many diseases, and spending in the European Union on dealing with the problem is 130 billion. Euros. Saved from electricity consumption in Bulgaria is between 60 cm. And 1 lv. There is no argument, Mrs. Kuneva, for the preservation of this measure, since the change of hours has already been shown medically, an increase in the number of accidents, accidents at work, heart attacks caused by impaired concentration and emotional state, due to biological rhythm disorders. The most severe effect is the change of time to people who have trouble sleeping, which makes them unable to work. According to the World Health Organisation, 45 percent of Europeans suffer from insomnia and among the most common cause of this problem is the change of time. All these effects also have a negative impact on the economy due to reduced productivity and accidents at work. And now, most importantly, there is a discussion on this topic in the European Union. On 29 October last year, the European Parliament held a debate, during which all the parliamentary groups, without exception, agreed on the opinion that change of time is an inadequate measure that needs to be removed. Against this background is my logical question to you as Deputy Prime Minister for European Affairs: when will the Bulgarian government cancel the Decree of the Council of Ministers of 1997, introducing the summer time, which is an anachronism, and this harmful anachronism, anachronism, which is not supported by the majority of Bulgarian citizens, which can be seen from any survey that the media in Bulgaria are currently doing, 90% of Bulgarian citizens are opposed to the summer time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u31	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Enchev, at the level of European legislation, it is indeed settled by a directive which is 2000/84 from 19 January 2001. At national law level, you said the decree was from 1997. The European Commission's research on Eurostat shows that summer time has a positive impact on tourism, transport, agriculture and the internal market. No requests from any Member State have been received by the European Commission for the modification of the provisions in force. As you know, there is only the European Commission and only the European Parliament, and the European Parliament accepts or rejects the proposals, together with the Council on the legislative initiative of the European Commission. I stress that such proposals have not arrived. You are right that such a discussion has indeed been held. This was in October 2015. Then a debate was held in the European Parliament on the topic with the participation of MEPs and experts. EU Transport Commissioner Violeta Bulz has been clear that there is not enough reason for the European Commission to cancel the summer time. According to the report of the Directorate-General for Mobility and Transport, there have been similar summer hours in Europe in Turkey, Norway, Switzerland since 2014. Such summer hours outside the European Union are available in the United States, Canada, New Zealand, Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay. In my answer, I am trying to be absolutely neutral to the arguments of both sides, just to expose them to you as they have seen them. I requested information from five Bulgarian institutions so that I could be useful to you, which are relevant to the question: the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Transport and Information Technology and Communications and the Ministry of Energy. Health care. It's not a problem. I got a response from there for most people. Temporary adaptation problems are possible in working early morning shifts, such as the start of the shift in 5"6 hours. The Ministry of Health does not know scientific evidence that changing time leads to a risk to human health or insomnia. Labor and social policy. Data from the information system for NSI accidents for the period 2011 - 2015 show that during the months of April and November, when the change takes place, there are no more accidents at work than during the other months, and that the change itself does not have a significant impact on the levels of labour traumatism. The economy. They believe that it has a positive effect on the economic sectors. Transport. Road transport in Bulgaria and the industry that uses it do not have problems with the introduction of summer time. For road safety, there is also no evidence that it is negatively affected by time shifts. Energy. For the last three years, data show that there is a trend of gradual linear weakening of its influence, and the saving electricity for lighting amounts to 24 088 megawatts or 1.44. Finally, I would like to tell you that at the European level there are no projects to repeal the Directive at the time. I remain neutral to the arguments before they appear and discuss them with you. In other words, I am prepared, if such an offer comes, to have a discussion here in our Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u33	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Kuneva. For a line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u34	Mrs. Kuneva, you have presented arguments to the state institutions. I will present you with other arguments which are the official arguments of the European Union. Bulgaria ranks first in Europe in the mortality of strokes and heart attacks, which largely contributes to the change of time. Bulgaria should therefore be the first country in the European Union to ask the European Commission, as you have said, to cancel this decision. You claim that the European Union is not like the Soviet Union and has nothing to do with these practices by the Soviet Union. Well, if that is the case, each State "member of the European Union" must have the right to a decision of its own and not to obey harmful Brussels directives, which have not yet been proven by the scientific institutions. Moreover, there is no European requirement as an imperative directive. It is that there is such a Directive, but it only requires the change of time and does not say whether we should do it. Therefore, we are not obliged to obey. Finally, to say something very important, as you are talking about labour productivity. Such giants in the economy like Japan and China have not taken the summer time at all because they think it will have a very negative impact on the biological clock. And 153 other countries don't intend to accept it at all if we're going to talk to numbers. In Russia, summer time was cancelled in 2010. And let me finish this by finishing, if we want to be Bulgaria to the citizens and not Bulgaria to the citizens of Brussels, we must make our own decisions that are in the interests of the citizens and not the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u35	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u36	Dear Mr. Enchev, I must disappoint you because the directives and their introduction into the national legislation are mandatory for all countries, including Bulgaria. When our MEPs vote, they make a majority or fail to do so together with all their remaining colleagues. That is, we have as much right to influence European politics as any other country. The question is to set goals that are feasible and very important to us. If only one country fails to comply with the directive, firstly, we are subject to a penalty because it is binding under the Treaty on European Union; and secondly, it would actually very upset our carriers. Think about what would happen if they didn't know if a country had rejected or accepted the time shift. Since we have a common internal market in the European Union, it is therefore considered that this directive expresses economic interests and interests of citizens. I say again, every discussion where the topic is reopened, I do not mind doing it, but still to say that in July 2015 our Commission, here in the National Assembly, has adopted an opinion that it proposes that the National Assembly should not be accepted in the first vote this draft decision submitted by the representatives of "Attack" in October 2014. That is, the idea that we are going against the will of the National Assembly here, in our country, is not true. Once again, if there is a discussion, I will surely ask you to participate in it and I will respect the views of the Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. That was the deputy prime minister's backdrop. We continue with a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov to Mrs Kuneva about the replacement in the curriculum of the Bulgarian schools of Orthodox Christianity and religion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science, in the basic law of the Republic of Bulgaria the Constitution, in art. 13, para. 3 is written that traditional religion in the Republic of Bulgaria is the Eastern Orthodox religion. It is widely known that during the years of severe historical trials the Bulgarian Orthodox Church was a support of the people and has a leading role in the development of education, faith in the preservation of the Bulgarian spirit and moral values. The polls show that still today the Bulgarian Orthodox Church is the institution with the most confidence, and in the last days from abroad came the news that it was offered for a Nobel Prize because of the role of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in saving the Bulgarian Jews. During the years of militant atheism, state government has managed to tear the people from its church and this has become the reason to break the tradition of the belief in the family. In recent years there has been an increase in opinion among the Bulgarian society about the need for an object of religion at the Bulgarian school. That's what the church insists on. Practice and observation show that good behavior and lack of aggression are observed among children who study religion as a free choice subject in school and Sunday schools to churches. In relation to the above, I ask you to answer me: what is the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science at the present stage and how is Orthodox Christianity and the history of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church involved in the curricula currently being developed?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u39	Thank you, Mr. Pavlov. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dr. Pavlov, it's a good thing you started by referring to the text in the Constitution, because it's especially dear to me. There are only two constitutions throughout Europe that mention which is the main religion in the country. This is our and the Greek Constitution. During the negotiations, this was the subject of special protection and a particular insistence on me to remain. I'm sure you've followed the legislative settlement, but let me say, for the transcript and for the MPs: In the framework of compulsory education in schools, religion is studied in historical, philosophical and cultural terms. As a separate subject of study, religion is present in compulsory electoral and freely elective preparation in two forms of Christianity and Islam. I note that over the past 10 years, the number of students who have made the choice to study this subject is mandatory and freely elected, a total of Christianity and Islam has fallen more than three times, and this is a fact that I would like to share with the right amount of concern with you from 15 227 in 2006, not so long ago, to 4 854 for the whole country in 2015. How are things under the new law? The study of religions in historical, philosophical and cultural terms continues to take place in several disciplines of general education. I would like to point out that in the already established program of the "History and civilization" for the sixth grade there is an explicit attention to Orthodoxy as a support of the Bulgarians during times of testing for the Bulgarian people, paying tribute to the contribution of the Christian religion and the monasteries to the preservation of the Bulgarian identity. The possibility of studying the religion is preserved as an independent subject within the scope of the extended training................................................................................................. So the differences between the old law and the new law are only terminological. The more important issues that stand on the agenda and on which I would be happy to take the attitude of both you and the National Assembly are the following: is it right for religion to learn professionally? What should study content be? What textbooks to teach, by whom to teach a person with pedagogical education, or by spiritual persons? Should only traditional religion be studied, or should there be other religious teachings? Of course, when making these decisions, we should not forget that Bulgarian education is secular, and that the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria proclaims an inviolable freedom of choice of religious or atheistic beliefs. In any case, however, these are complex and sensitive topics for which I have deep respect, and they cannot be a matter of a single solution. It is my intention to seek a broader format of discussion of the subject, so, first of all, I want to restore the functions of the Council of Religion to the Minister of Education and Science, and its composition to be resumed so that it includes a wider range of public figures. Finally, the aspirations of the Ministry of Education and Science are the broadest deployment of the statutory opportunities, so as to achieve a satisfactory level of both religious literacy and understanding in Bulgarian schools.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Mr. Pavlov, you have the opportunity to further develop the issue. You won't take the opportunity. I thank Mrs. Kuneva for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions asked to Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. The first question is from the MP Yavor Haytov. Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The town of Kozloduy has acquired national and world fame, as in close proximity to the city is located the NPP of Kozloduy. Of course, this is the city of Boteva's glory, but in modern times, in the modern world we are talking about this extremely important national business unit. There work several thousand people, mostly from Vratsa region and this national structure gives work and livelihood to many of the residents and residents of the municipality and Vratsa region, where I have the honor and pleasure of being elected as MP. Over the years, however, the city has been a member of the European Union. Kozloduy and the nuclear power plant were so designed that in fact the entire airport was concentrated by passing one way, which is also the main street of the city. The safety requirements suggest that there are several routes to serve as evacuation and normal movement between the locality of the nuclear power plant and the entire region around. In this regard, my question is: is the construction of a tour of the city to connect the city to the nuclear plant area? If your answer is positive: what are the deadlines for its construction, are they completed and what phase are the feasibility studies? Is there design, when is the start and end of construction work envisaged? And most importantly: is such funding provided? This time, which is, of course, important for the security of the nuclear power plant and for God's sake to have an evacuation, is extremely important for the villages around here........................... We are obliged by our activities to make it easier for them to move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u43	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Haytov! Thank you for your question. The subject you are putting is really important and very relevant. During the past year, an updated strategy for managing spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste until 2030 was developed and adopted in the implementation of the Government Program for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria. One of the main priorities of the Strategy is the construction of a National Warehouse for the storage of low and medium radioactive waste. In this regard, the State-owned company "Radioactive Waste" managed to protect and provide the necessary funding to rehabilitate a section of a second-class Republican road by the International Fund "Kozloduy." The bypass of the town of Plovdiv. Kozloduy as part of the Republican road network is a section of this second-class Republican road. This section is part of the routes to evacuate the population from the emergency protection area around the nuclear power plant. It is a main direction in which the movement from and to the plant takes place and is a key road connecting the city. Kozloduy with the region of Vratsa. In this regard, and in order to ensure conditions for evacuation safety, rehabilitation of two separate sections is envisaged: from km 89 to km 95 + 089 this section is in operation and has a total length of 6 km. The other section is from km 83 + 899 to km 89 with a total length of 5 km. This is Kozloduy's ring road, which has not yet been completed. Part of it is built up to the level of pavement of crushed stone, and on the rest is laid and non-solid concrete. The rehabilitation project in the district from the village of Hurlez to the town of Veliko Tarnovo. Kozloduy is for full engineering and includes a design that has been partially carried out for the first section, but must be revised in view of the heavy mechanization that will be used in the construction of the National Repository for the disposal of radioactive waste. For the second section of the so-called road around the city. Kozloduy, a whole new project needs to be developed as it is missing. At present, in connection with the construction of the National Warehouse, funding is provided to carry out rehabilitation of the above-mentioned sections of road II-11 within the framework of a grant agreement concluded between the State-owned enterprise "Radioactive Waste" and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. A technical specification and tender documentation for the project as required by the bank has been developed and are to be submitted for approval by the bank. The total duration until the final entry into service, including the examination of the sections, design and construction works, shall be one year. The tender procedure is conducted in accordance with the rules established by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is why the conclusion of the contract is possible no earlier than September 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u45	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Haytov, you have an opportunity for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the answer I understood the following: in September 2016 it was normal and logical to start building this so important infrastructure project for the territory of the entire Kozloduy municipality. You stated that the deadline for construction works is one year, i.e. in the months of September and October 2017 I hope and sincerely believe that you will be able to go to the city. Kozloduy, cut the ribbon and fulfill the commitment poet here today from the highest tribune in the country. I would like to say to you that I will closely monitor the deadlines and everything you have said, because I have repeatedly stated it and as my pre-election commitment to the residents and employees of the nuclear power plant, that this should happen, that it should no longer be postponed and that it should be implemented as soon as possible. Madam Minister, for almost a year and a half you have held the so important and responsible post Minister of Energy. Today is April 1st, and I hesitated whether to withdraw this question, because April 1st is a day of the joke, some say to the lie as well. However, I would like to share that from the brief meetings with you I get the impression that you are a really serious and committed person and the requested deadlines here today at the end of 2017, gr. Kozloduy to have a tour, to have a second time will be served and executed. Thank you for your stated desire, intent and opportunity to complete this joint commitment, regardless of government or opposition. Finally, what I would like to say is that when the electricity grid was icing, you found time and strength on weekends to come to my electoral area, to attend personally and to mobilize the forces and structures that had to solve the problems of interrupting the power grid. At the end of 2017, we will be waiting for you to discover this so important tour for the entire Kozloduy municipality and for the entire region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u47	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Madam Minister, will you use the right to the back? No. With this Mr. Haytov's question received his answer. We continue with a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov about the real implementation of the provisions of the Law on Energy, Heat Efficiency and Plant Plants to install measuring instruments of a control nature. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members, both if one person does not have an electric meter, it is difficult to determine its actual consumption, as well as the thermal plants and plant plants, if they do not have measuring instruments, the current purchased from them cannot be at real cost and actual reporting. It's the same case. At our insistence, Mrs. Minister, September, you made an inspection which found that a total of 22 power plants and plant plants did not install the measuring instruments in question, and without them it cannot be guaranteed that high efficiency and cogeneration is being purchased from them. My question now is: four months later, is this subject solved? Because the positive data that we have from the sector....................... the fact that the National Electricity Company (NEC) is on operating profit at the moment... the old liabilities stand on operating profit is a fact or at least the operating loss decreases if we look at it from this point of view. In order to continue all this as an effort, energy reform to take place to the end, it is important that these measuring instruments and controls are installed everywhere so that it is clear that no one manipulates data and information; that there is strict control and it is clear that for each plant plant plant what is actually produced in a highly efficient and combined way, only it is bought out at the high prices in question. Without this guarantee, energy reform cannot be brought to the end. That's why I'm calling you again. I am aware that fellow MEPs have introduced plantation mechanisms through another related law so that these power plants and plant plants, which have not implemented the law, can be fined from now on. What matters now is how many of them have implemented the law and how many have found some form, a pretext for its failure to comply, so that we all know and have the information, dear Minister, how much are texts clearly written in the law, of a controlling nature, happening or always finding a loophole not to be fulfilled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u49	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u50	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, the question you are asking is really very important. We all remember 2015. The time in which we together with you and all Bulgarian MPs prepared the so important changes in the Energy Act. One of the most important changes in it is a change aimed at shrinking and eliminating the deficit in the National Electricity Company from now on was related precisely to the activities of these heating companies that do not produce in a highly efficient and combined way. I would only like to remind myself that in 2014 the loss that the National Electricity Company realised was precisely from those heat companies that did not produce in a highly efficient and combined way, and NEK purchased their energy at preferential prices, the loss was 231 million. lv. This, of course, was a very serious loss for which we had to look for an option to eliminate it. As you yourself mentioned, a change in the law was adopted, a regulation was drawn up accordingly. The Regulation on the conditions and manner of fulfilling the obligations of power generators of thermal power plants with cogeneration of heat and electricity provided by 14 October 2015 for all manufacturers to provide the relevant operator with operational control capability by providing it with real-time data on the thermal electrical parameters of cogeneration plants. As I have already had the opportunity to inform you in a previous reply to a parliamentary question you have raised on this subject, two weeks before the expiry of the deadline for implementing the provisions of the Ordinance by my Order of 25 September 2015 was established a Commission consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Energy, the Electricity System Operator and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission as a monitoring body. The Commission carried out an on-the-spot verification of all cogeneration installations in the country with regard to the course of implementing the provisions of the Ordinance and providing methodological assistance for the implementation of the Ordinance. In the middle of March this year, a second inspection was carried out which showed that on 14 March 2016 the provisions of the Ordinance were implemented by the following companies: The other operators who have failed to fulfil their legal commitments set out reasons for this delay due to relevant false indications, software adjustment, lack of signed contracts with a contractor. Some plants are in the process of final testing. In locations the necessary equipment is installed and the operator is expected to make the necessary adjustments. I could provide you with a detailed list of heating companies that have failed to fulfil those commitments and the reasons they point out. Regarding the need to introduce a sanction in order to discipline the heating companies of the Ministry of Energy, I had made a commitment to you and to the Bulgarian Parliament to initiate such a change in the law, which would enable the introduction of sanctions. Such an initiative has been shown by us and I very much hope that the Bulgarian Parliament will accept this proposal to introduce sanctions for failure to comply with these commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u51	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Dimitrov, will you use the line? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u52	Madam Minister, I will continue to ask you this question until the provision for the installation of these controls is met in mass, because if we do not complete this to the end, the good results that we are reporting from Bulgarian energy, including the reduced NEK deficit, the fact that in a few months it comes out of operating profit can be compromised. That's why I'm so insistent and I keep asking you that question. I am also committed to talking to my own parliamentary group and not only with it to support serious sanctions for companies that do not install such controls. In other words, there should be a monthly fine which does not lapse until the company concerned does not comply with the legal provision. If we do not bring order to our country, honourable Members, we will not deal with these chronic deficits and problems. We suffer from chronic problems and chronic deficits for the simple reason that there is no order in our country. Like you, if you didn't have an electric meter at home, they'd charge you a base bill. The same applies to the plants and plant plants in question. If they do not have the necessary measuring instruments, they cannot be paid electricity on any common basis, which is extremely expensive and this burdens the total costs of the National Electricity Company. So, dear Minister, by also appreciating your efforts to reform energy, I will be insistent together, including with the introduction of sanctions, to achieve the final result, namely to have measuring instruments and to pay only what is actually produced in a highly efficient and combined way. I'd appreciate it if you could provide me with the latest reference to the fine companies that have complied with the provisions of the law. Thank you. [[Mister Temenuzhka Petkova transmits the list to the MP Martin Dimitrov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u53	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Madam Minister, will you use the minutes for the coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u54	Thank you. Mr. Dimitrov, thank you for asking this question, because it really is extremely important to us. As I had the opportunity to mention in my reply, it is vital for the National Electricity Company to eliminate all possibilities for generating a deficit in the system. One of the biggest threats was precisely the lack of control of this actual amount of electricity produced in a highly efficient and combined manner and paid only or paid for all the electricity produced at preferential prices by these heating companies. So, both I and my colleagues from the Ministry of Energy will work in this direction, and until these heat companies fulfil their commitments, believe me, we will not leave them. Of course, I will also rely on the support of the Bulgarian Parliament for introducing sanctions that have the meaning to discipline these producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u55	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We continue with a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev concerning a procedure negotiated with a notice under the Public Procurement Act for Security of the territory and property owned by the TPP Maritza East 2 Here you are, Mr. Kadyev, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, I would like to address you with a more trivial question - a public procurement, which, however, shows that a state-owned company is losing two and a half million and I would like to finish it because there are 7 billion public contracts per year. lv. and if each of them is lost 30-40%, imagine what that means for the state and the budget. Dear Minister, I received a signal from the National Association of Companies, guarding by technical means. The same alert was issued on 8 October 2015 and concerns a contract for security in the Maritsa East 2 The public procurement was announced on 26 March 2015, on 30 September 2015, the contracting authority appointed the contractor for the contracting of the company "Army Securities BG" from the town of Etropole with a price of approximately 6 million. lv. without VAT. This price is almost twice the price proposed by the second-placed candidate who offers a price of approximately three and a half million leva excluding VAT, although according to the criteria laid down by the contracting authority, the contract notice seeks the most economically advantageous offer in view of three criteria and the price with the highest weight. The company ranked first and foremost the company "Armi Securities BG" Ltd is tens of times smaller than the other candidates. The company is registered under the name "Army Security" Ltd. without "BGG" in 2008 and has experience in the security of a sports complex in Montana, several sites of the city of Montana. It opened bankruptcy proceedings in 2009 December 2008 the same owner registered the new company....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A report in the electronic register of the Public Procurement Agency shows that "TPP Maritsa East 2" is often resorting to the services of the company "Army Securities BG" without announcing open procedures, but through direct negotiation. I've listed several contracts back in the years. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: is there a reaction by you in relation to the signal of 8 October 2015 and what is it, i.e. is the public procurement stopped, in simple terms? Secondly, why hasn't the most economically advantageous tender been chosen in view of the criteria laid down? This leads to a direct loss of the Maritsa East 2 and about two and a half million. Thirdly, what is the justification for twice the price of the selected security service compared to the candidate offered by the second-placed candidate? Fourth, a technical question to which you can calmly and not answer: what does the introduction of additional requirements with a decision change the demand, which I did not announce for lack of time? The first three questions are the most important, Madame Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u57	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u58	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Mr. Kadyev, the question you are asking is really very important. A question that is related to how the companies of state energy spend their funds - a topic that is extremely important to all of us and, believe me, the government and the team of the Ministry of Energy - the Bulgarian Energy Holding are making a very serious effort to control this process and stop it where there is a need for it and, believe me, we will not hesitate to do so. As far as this particular procurement is concerned, I can provide you with the following information that I have. As you rightly pointed out, the signal referred to in your question by the National Association of Companies, guarding by technical means, was received by the Ministry of Energy on 9 October 2015. The signal states that by the National Association of Companies, guarding by technical means, there was a gross violation in the conduct of the selection of a contractor for security at the TPP. By letter dated 27 October 2015, the Commission informed the Commission that it had decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 112 of the Administrative-Processional Code the signal is forwarded according to the competence of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Offers from five participants have been submitted in the procedure. Four participants were admitted to the second stage of the procedure and all four were ranked. In the Decision for the selection of a contractor, as outlined in Protocol No 40 of 30 September 2015 of the Board of Directors, is appealed within the ten-day term of the participants............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ By Decision No 975 of 16 December 2015, the Commission for Protection of Competition left the complaints without respect, confirming the decision to elect a contractor as correct and lawful. There is no objection to the decisions put forward by the Commission for Protection of Competition within the legally established period. At the same time, in October 2015, in October 2015, there was a case file from the District Prosecutor's Office of Stara Zagora. The inspection is continuing as we speak. On the part of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, all the necessary documents and opinions of the contracting authority under the above procedure are requested in relation to the alleged allegations in the signal of the Chairman of the Board of the National Association of Companies guarding by technical means. All the information collected by the Bulgarian Energy Holding was provided to the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior "Stara Zagora" in connection with an inspection by the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior "Stara Zagora." In conclusion, I would add that at the moment in the By my letter of 24 March this year, I have forwarded the entire signal that has been received by the Ministry of Energy to the State Financial Inspection Agency requesting that this particular procurement be verified in terms of its legality. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I hope that, after this verification has been completed, we will have all the information and it is precisely the competent authority that will answer all the questions you have raised regarding the methodology for assessing the tenders in relation to the need to change the initially announced conditions. With regard to what the procedure is to be, whether it should be an economically most advantageous offer or the criterion for assessing the tender to be at the lowest price, I would just like to point out that this is a power of attorney. [[the President signals that time has run out]] which the legislator has given and is in the operational autonomy of the contracting entity. That is, how the relevant offer will be assessed is his right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u59	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Time's up. Perhaps you'll use the opportunity for a line. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u60	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I am pleased that the State Financial Inspection Agency will carry out an examination of the case, because, honourable Members, there is a classic example of a mistaken public procurement, you have a change in the conditions during the public procurement itself, obviously made in favour of a certain company, you have a choice of a winning order, which has given twice the price of the other three companies, and you have generally signed, numbered and standing with your name people, a signal from a national Association that deals with precisely such activity, that is something serious, is not an anonymous signal, no one has told anyone, which is why I have allowed myself to just get to the bottom of this job, because in such public procurements usually someone has taken the money at some point. What Maritsa East is going to lose is two and a half million and when we talk about how many losses of Maritsa East 2 are at the end of the year, because at the moment, as far as I know, this is the only energy company with losses, one of the reasons is precisely such public procurement, and we all know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u61	Madam Minister, will you use the time of two minutes to respond to the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kadiev, to stop, if there are such vicious practices in state energy, is our very important priority and we will work in this direction, I assure you. I commit myself to providing you with the information in person as soon as the State Financial Inspection Agency has completed its verification of the legality of this procurement so that you have clarity about the whole process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u63	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This has run out of questions for you. Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. Mr. Goranov is already in the Chamber. He is the Minister of Finance. He was asked by the MPs Rumen Gechev and Cornelia Ninova. You have the floor to ask Minister Goranov the procedure envisions three minutes to justify the question to the Minister. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Goranov, honourable colleagues! Our question is: what measures does the government take to bind budgetary policy to the country's economic development? The reason why we ask this question is negative processes in the development of the Bulgarian economy and the disillusionment of the Bulgarian state at the moment, in the face of the government to compensate the missing private investments, foreign investments and to have a positive impact on the development of the Bulgarian economy, as other European countries are doing, mobilizing public funds. Dear Minister, you say in your 2016 Budget Act that the main priority of fiscal policy is maintaining the stability of public finances. Dear colleagues, this is not a fiscal policy. It's about budget policy. To open the dictionaries, to see the policies of other European countries. I also recommended that when discussing the budget you see what is written in the budget laws of France, Germany, Italy and Spain. Physical politics is a completely different thing that is not in the policy of this government. This is the commitment of budgetary policy to changes in macroeconomic indicators. In other countries' budgets, it says that the objective of fiscal policy is not at all: What does it matter if the budget is balanced at minus one percent of gross domestic product deficit or two percent? What matters in meeting the Maastricht criteria is the strict compliance with these criteria, how the government uses fiscal policy to stimulate economic growth. According to the latest data for the first quarter of this year, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the National Statistical Institute, the EUROSTAT shows that consumer demand is decreasing, construction continues to be stalled, private investments decline in 2016, foreign investments will be at the level of the most optimistic scenarios around a billion and a half euros, which, colleagues, is 6 times below the pre-crisis level of 2008, when they were 8-9 billion. It is particularly worrying that the foreign trade turnover is also shrinking since the beginning of 2006, which would mean some isolation and pushing the Bulgarian economy away from the trade turnovers of Europe and other countries. All this happens in the context of a colossal increase in government debt. From this point of view, questions arise: why is the Bulgarian government not learning from the policies of the leading countries in the European Union and conducting an absolute policy in the opposite direction of what is being done in Europe? Across Europe, both growth and the share of budget expenditure in gross domestic product are maintained in order to increase the economy. And you have bet on the three-year programme, and you continue to implement it, to reduce the share of budget expenditure in gross domestic product. Absolutely unique to the policy of other countries.. Member States of the European Union. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. Can I tell you that 2012 the French made a new state bank for public investment, mobilizing 42 billion. EUR, signing a contract with the European Investment Bank, that public investment in countries such as France is three and a half percent of gross domestic product, Germany is two and a half, Italy and Spain are two and two tenths, while the Bulgarian government does nothing concrete to stimulate the Bulgarian economy. So look at the definition of what fiscal policy is and develop concrete measures how Bulgaria's budgetary policy will stimulate the Bulgarian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u65	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer. You have five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Nino, Mr. Gechev! Fiscal policy aims to provide conditions for higher growth and employment in the short term, while also ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances, so that future generations are not burdened with financial obligations arising today. In view of this, fiscal policy is formulated in line with the generally accepted principle of neutrality against the economic cycle in the medium term. In planning the budgetary parameters, not only the nominal limits on a cash and charged basis are monitored, but additional indicators such as those regulated in the Public Finance Act and indicators for structural budgetary balance and medium-term budgetary objective are calculated and analysed. The instrument for assessing the pro- or countercyclicality of fiscal policy is called structural balance. The structural balance is also a key indicator used in the process of fiscal management and surveillance in the European Union, which is at the heart of the preventive part of the Stability and Growth Pact of the European Union in which Bulgaria is currently present. The structural balance is the actual budget balance on a charged basis, according to the methodology of the European System of Accounts in its 2010 edition, cleared of the impact of the economic cycle, single budgetary measures and measures of a temporary nature. The added value of tracking the dynamics of this indicator is expressed in the possibility to relatively easily and quickly check the expected outcome of the fiscal policy on economic activity and its compliance with the economic cycle phase. In this way, planning is also monitored for the adequacy of budgetary balance targets as compared to expected economic development in the medium term. In determining the objective of the structural balance, assessments of the potential growth of the Bulgarian economy are essential, which are drawn up on the basis of the methodology adopted at European Union level. At present, the economy is developing below its potential, i.e. the value of Bulgaria's gross domestic product for the previous and also for the current year, is lower than its potential level. On the basis of this information and in order to address the economic situation in 2015, the structural deficit amounts to 2.4 per cent of gross domestic product, which means more expansionist fiscal policy, in support of growth and employment in the short term, with the objective of long-term sustainability of public finances remaining secondary. I note that the continued preservation of this policy model for a longer period of time means shifting the balance towards short-term objectives and ignoring the long-term sustainability objective of public finances, which is also on the agenda, especially given the serious problems we have with the ageing population. The long-term sustainability of public finances is monitored by compliance with the medium-term budgetary objective of the structural balance. For Bulgaria, it is negative, at the rate of 1% of gross domestic product and is the maximum permissible for the EU member states that have joined the fiscal pact. The determination of this value takes into account the impact of a number of factors, among which are the expectations for the deviation from the potential of the economy in the medium term, as well as the estimates of the long-term effects of the ageing population on the costs of the pension and health system. In order to ensure the long-term sustainability of fiscal policy, the structural deficit of 2.4 per cent for 2016 must be reduced to 1% in 2017. This is what we set as a goal in the updated mid-term budget forecast prepared at the end of December. We also respect this objective in the current work on the first stage of the 2017 budgetary procedure. With this, we want to make it clear that we are aware of both the short-term needs of our economy and the need to resolve long-term challenges. The identified problems must be addressed urgently with concrete measures and reforms, by optimizing and solving the effectiveness of the health care, pension, educational systems. Here we are not looking for an easily achievable alternative by pouring additional resources into them. On the contrary, we are looking for a solution to the years-old problems that affect our standard of living and the future potential for the development of the economy. Therefore, the need to increase the potential of our economy to invest in infrastructure, technology, easy access to public services, reducing barriers to business development, training, skills accumulation, development of the labour market should also be taken into account. The aim of the policy is to implement consolidation in such a way as to limit the short-term negative effects on the real sector, while at the same time working to increase the potential of the economy so that higher but sustainable levels of economic growth can be realised. In support of what has been said so far, I will mention only the results of the efforts made over the past years to speed up the absorption of European programmes and funds, most easily measurable by the significant growth of investments in the public sector achieved in 2015. At the same time, relatively low direct tax rates were maintained with a focus on maintaining a favourable economically active tax structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u67	You have the option of two supplementary questions. Mrs. Ninova will ask them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u68	Minister, do you have any idea what parliamentary control is for? This is not a place where lectures on macroeconomics and finance are read. This is a place where people expect to hear what a solution to their problems we offer them. So I suggest we leave this academic tone, the structural deficit, the expansionist policy and the long-term sustainability of public finances and talk human about what we are doing. I claim that your financial policy, economic policy, leads Bulgaria to disaster. You're always borrowing new loans. Already a third of everything made in Bulgaria is due. If one person has made 100 leva, 30 already owes. At the same time, you claim that only for the first quarter you have more than 1 billion. lv. In more money. The two billion personal wallets of the Prime Minister voted by the budget stand almost unusable. I mean, there's a lot of money. But where are they? They're not in the economy, you don't have any growth in the economy. You read here this morning a prickly statement, which we will then comment on in the attitude. They're not in people. They're impoverishing. Consumption's dropping. It's not rising. There are no investments, and you know what the condition for growth is for investments and consumption. The money's gone. Our questions are where are they and why do you take these loans on the condition that you have more revenue in the budget? You say that the purpose of a financial policy is growth and employment. Where's your growth? You think it's going to be 2.1. According to Boyko Borisov 4,5. According to the objective European Commission, it will be 1.5. Where's your job? How many new jobs have been opened in the last year? And what is absolutely incomprehensible is that your sentence should not be burdened by future generations. That's exactly what you're doing. Future generations will have to return that money. But our main question is, what are you doing with that money, why are you piling it up? And I ask you specifically, please answer the following two questions: First of all, is it true that you are gaining a reserve because Europe will stop you from funds or, in particular, professionally speaking, will not recover the funds that you have paid from the national budget, you expected them to repay you, Europe has told you that these orders are corrupt, that you are stealing, which is why you will not be paid? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And now you have to pay it from the budget, so you're borrowing it? Is that true? And two: how much money from Boyko Borisov's personal portfolio did you spend on the two and a half billion dollars? Since when we were discussing the budget, you didn't want us to write down where that money would go and what the effect would be on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u69	For an answer, the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u70	I regret that the high style expected from the National Assembly gives you a bad impression. But, still, I'm sure you can keep it up. The specific answer to the two supplementary questions that you have asked. On the first one only for March, so we have a very serious fiscal performance and we are reporting over a billion and 800 million surplus, we have 700 million recovered from the European Commission. Information about problems with the European funds is, to put it mildly, exaggerated. There are common failures in some of the projects that are expressed in financial corrections. That's hardly news. We try to be better every day than the last. But shutting down EU funds, like, by the way, happened two years ago, now there is no such risk. On the second point, I would like to point out to you that when we commented on the budget, the so-called aggregated number of capital expenditure in the state budget contains not only expenditure on the central budget but also expenditure contained in the budget of the State. So the investment programme of the government is implemented in the sense the allocation of funds is carried out, some of them are in the central budget and are related to the arms programmes and some of the costs of about 600 million, for which we commented and during the budget vote, are conditional and depend on whether the concession of Sofia Airport will be successfully implemented. If it is implemented successfully and this revenue comes, we have the idea to return these funds to the transport system to solve the accumulated huge problems mostly in the area of railways. This is the most concrete answer I can give you right now. Otherwise, the debate on the relationship between the amount of expenditure in the public sector, the deficit, debt and tax policy is very good, but it can hardly focus on a debate within parliamentary control. I'm ready to take him. Here you could shape your face as a left-wing party, not with conflicting statements that do not always coincide fully with the truth.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u71	For attitude, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u72	Mr. Minister, we will meet your expectations and there will be serious debates in Parliament on this subject despite attempts to ruin our petition. We've collected signatures and I'll hand them over to Mrs. Tsacheva at the end. However, I hope, if not today, because there is little time in these debates to talk meaningfully about problems in the financial and economic sphere. Understand that in order to solve them, you must first recognize them. Before you came, colleagues from GERB read a thorny declaration about the state of the country and the implementation of your program. You live in an absolutely parallel world, people, from what you claim! Either you're completely out of reality, or you're freaking manipulating this talk. You say that you have growth in the economy and financial stability, but the report of the European Commission on economic imbalances came out and Bulgaria is in overbalance. It says: you take a lot of debt, the labor market is difficult, your economy does not work, the most people in Bulgaria live in poverty. You're saying you've struggled with smuggling and corruption. A survey of the European Parliament came out saying that 19 billion a year was stolen in Bulgaria! That's where the money is! You didn't answer me from these loans, from these revenues, with no expenses, where the money is, and they're stealing. And we're not telling you, you're saying disparagingly the alternative. Yeah, the left alternative. But it tells you a neutral valuer of the European Commission. You say there's a lot of money, but you shut down public procurement and block the economy. At the same time, it's amazing what happened last week, and you're shutting down a $2.5 million contract, putting it down for $6 million. And 200,000. lv. What kind of miracle is that and what's the reason? Isn't that corruption and theft? I hope that this debate will be held on next Friday, as I will now present to Mrs Tsacheva a petition of 51 MPs willing to adopt a draft decision of the National Assembly and he is: entrusts the Minister of Finance to present to the Committee on Budget and Finance at the 43rd National Assembly by 30 June 2016 and by 30 November 2016 information on the spending of the funds under art. 1, para. 2, Section II Expenditure, row 2 "capital expenditure" of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this 511 thousand. BGN 887, including information on: 1. The beneficiary of the funds, the purpose and conditions of their granting. 2. Initiated and/or government-backed investment projects in the form of a public private partnership with an indication of the economy sector, conditions and expected results. Dear colleagues, do we not all understand that we need the finances of the state to invest in economics in order to have production, and hence to have work, income and improvement of people's living standards, as if we are doing nothing here, neither they in the Council of Ministers. Because the saddest statistic is [[the President signals that time has run out]] this UN report, which says Bulgaria is the poorest country in the European Union. Whatever you do, Minister, this is the number one problem in Bulgaria. And no talk of fiscal stability, of cohesion or any other policy does not change the fact that Bulgarians continue to live poorly, impoverished more and more in this government because it is stolen because you are leading a wrong policy and because you do not care about the people! Mrs. Tsacheva, please schedule the debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u73	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, with the duly submitted accompanying letter, No 654-02-28 of 1 April 2016, submitted at 10.25, received a request for debate on the question, No 654-05-30 of 26 February 2016, by MPs Rumen Gechev and Cornelia Ninova to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on the financial policy of the government together with a draft decision by which Mrs. Ninova has just introduced you. The signature is signed by 50 MPs, as one of them is the 51st, here we get away with Mrs. Nino, has withdrawn his signature or at least this is visible, writes: "Do not read his signature. In any case, the terms of art. 101 of our Rules of Procedure, there is a proposal from more than one fifth of the Members of the National Assembly, which is why the debates, in accordance with our Rules, should be held in the first plenary session designated for parliamentary control. On this basis, I schedule the debates by discussion and voting on the draft decision on 8 April 2016, this is the next Friday at 11.00. The usual starting time for parliamentary control. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u74	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, as from 9.30 am, since the parliamentary control has started, there has been a systematic violation of the Rules of Organisation and the National Assembly's activities regarding the time to set and lines by MPs. Just minutes before I took this procedure, our over-spoken time limit jumped 1.40 minutes, which is already a drastic violation of the Rules and I ask you to react in due time. This tribune is about asking precise and clear questions, not about developing propaganda activities for an upcoming convention. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] So I ask you very much to apply the Rules strictly in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u75	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. You're right that we should stick to our rules. It is true that Mrs. Ninova's attitude was extended. I have issued an appropriate sound signal warning for this, and I rely on the correct attitude of all Members of the National Assembly. It is true that when thoughts flow and an opinion is expressed, it is possible not to involve a Member of the National Assembly in time, but in any case when a sound signal is given, colleagues, please respect each other. The following questions to Minister Vladislav Goranov were provided as questions with a common answer, as they concern the same topic. Mr. Slavi Binev, however, has postponed his question, which is why we will now hear the question of the National Representative Velizar Enchev about the danger of a debt spiral.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u76	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, in 2015, our country signed contracts with several international banks for dealing and agency for issuing government bonds of 8 billion. EUR, about 16 billion. BGN, and in 2016, your government pledged a debt draw of 5 billion. lv. Due to the extreme importance of the question, I suggest you inform the MPs and the Bulgarian public what loans have been taken, what loans are to be taken during your term as finance minister, and whether there is a risk of a debt spiral? On this occasion, I would like to clarify the question that in February, the budget has already been said by Mrs Cornelia Nino, with an excess of almost 1 billion. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, this is 1% of the estimated gross domestic product. This is an official message from your Ministry. And the size of the fiscal reserve is almost 10 billion. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 900 million. lv. So I ask: why do you take new and new loans with these revenues? Finally, I will only remind you that when Prime Minister Oresharski said that the state should take a loan of 1 billion. BGN, then in opposition Mr. Borisov dramatically announced that this is a bankruptcy of the state, and when he became prime minister last year he said that if we do not take a loan, Mr. Goranov, of 5 billion. BGN, the state will go bankrupt again. On this occasion, I specify: which of the two opinions of the Prime Minister and opposition are true? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u77	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov has the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Enchev! A basic prerequisite for debt is the need for... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u79	Mr. Secretary, just a minute! Can I ask my colleagues in this Chamber not to talk? [[turns to the left of the room]] Are they talking because they're interfering with parliamentary control? Please, the Quaestors, make a note! Proceed, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u80	A prerequisite for debt-taking is the need to secure debt refinancing funds in circulation, finance budget deficits and maintain an adequate level of the fiscal reserve as a liquid buffer. The annual laws on the state budget are discussed and adopted by the National Assembly and the debt limits laid down therein are strictly respected by the Ministry of Finance. According to the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, the maximum amount of the new government debt that can be taken over in the current year is 5.3 billion, including 3.9 billion or their equivalent in another currency on the international markets. The State Budget Act for 2016 provides for new government debt issues to secure the financing of the planned deficit for the year under the consolidated fiscal programme of 1.8 billion. BGN, and also the funds raised will guarantee the full amount and the servicing of the payments by the maturity of the debt during the year. The debt limits also provide for the possibility to provide a buffer where necessary to secure programmes and instruments for financial stabilisation and provide exceptional public financial support under the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms, including through the Bulgarian Development Bank. On the basis of the current parameters for the implementation of the consolidated fiscal programme for the first two months of the year, the balance on a cash basis at February is positive at 915.2 million. BGN, approximately 1% of the estimated gross domestic product. Compared to February 2015, a deficit of 105.5 million in the consolidated fiscal programme, about one tenth of gross domestic product, was reported. This means that, as a relative share of gross domestic product, the budget position improves by 1.2 per cent. By the way, preliminary data for March showed a positive trend and an increase in primary surplus. Regardless of these positive developments at the moment, the fiscal framework for 2016 in an annual plan provides for a deficit which requires the issuance of new government debt. Fiscal consolidation is the only way in which, in the medium term, the need to issue new debt to finance the deficit in the budget can be limited, which is where our efforts are directed. As you know, the deficit on the consolidated fiscal programme for 2015 on a cash basis was shrunk by 2.9 per cent compared to 3.7 per cent for 2014. According to preliminary data, the deficit on a charged basis for 2015 will probably amount to around 2 In the updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2016 - 2018, we have set the ambitious task of fiscal consolidation to continue unreservedly, with the deficit of the consolidated fiscal programme shrinking to 1% for 2018. This philosophy is also at the heart of the Public Finance Act, where the fiscal rules described are aimed at ensuring long-term sustainability of public finances and, in particular, maintaining sustainable levels of public debt. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In the light of the foregoing, I can state that debt management is being implemented taking into account the state of the economy, is linked to macroeconomic forecasts in a three-year horizon and offering different options of action depending on favorable factors of domestic and international markets.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u81	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Enchev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u82	Mr. Minister, I did not hear the answer to the question of the dual attitude of Prime Minister Borisov as opposition believes that the taking of 1 billion debt is a disaster for the state, but as a ruling debt of 5 billion this year is not a disaster, it is a great success of the government. Secondly, here carefully bypasses the answers to the following question: what specifically requires a new debt to be taken? What will the money be spent on? And another very important question: is it because, as is officially recognised, there should be a financial buffer if a new bank fails because of the need to buy new fighters? And thirdly, Cornelia Ninova just asked where this 1 billion will go. 300 million. lv. in the performance of budget revenue? On this occasion, I would like to quote what your predecessor Simeon Dyankov says, as my question is whether there is a danger of a debt spiral. Simeon Dyankov stated one month ago the following: "Bulgaria is already in debt spiral. Fees are coming up. Mr. Djankov says: "In 2013 we entered with 0,5% budget deficit and debt below 16% of gross domestic product, and now we have 30% debt and 2,5% deficit. This deficit, says the former finance minister, leads automatically to a debt increase. Therefore, I ask you very much to answer the questions specifically: what does taking a new debt require? Is there a risk of bankruptcy of a new bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u83	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Enchev, I have answered what requires a new debt and I will not repeat it. Regarding duality, it was as if you had stood elsewhere in plenary before, so this topic with you would not be commented. Regarding the debt spiral, we are far from that problem. The level of interest rates in the budget is low and does not imply a debt spiral, as my predecessor has commented and which you duly quote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u85	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next again a question by the MP Slavi Binev, but today he has withdrawn his questions and questions to Minister Goranov. We move on to the next question asked by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev about the actions taken after the report of the "Alix Partners" for the collection of the assets of KTB. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me ask you: where is Mrs. Tsacheva because I had a question for her too? Whether at GERB, Pleven, they already found out who exactly nominated the person arrested by 800,000. lv. Tsvetlin Tsvetanov, or are they still arguing about it?! How is he, being an adviser to the colleague of GERB from Pleven Vladislav Nikolov, suddenly disappeared from the register of parliament yesterday?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u87	According to the Rules of the Bulgarian Parliament...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u88	Yeah, I know the rules. I was very hoping Mrs. Tsacheva...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u89	... The questions are asked to the ministers, and Mrs. Tsacheva can be questioned in another form. Here you go, develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u90	I'll put it in public. Dear Minister, my question is about the action taken after a report by Alix Partners on the collection of KTB's assets. The report was submitted to the Bulgarian side on September 23, 2015, and a few months later he joined the Bulgarian Parliament in the secret section where we were able to read it. This asset collection report of CCB indicates a number of options for additional steps to be taken by the State to collect these funds. In view of the above information, I ask you to answer the following questions: what actions have been taken after the entry of the Alix Partners' report on 23 September 2015 for the collection of assets drained from CCB? Has a company been hired to collect the bank's assets, and has it been contracted? Is this firm possibly again "Alix Partners"? If a company is not employed to collect the claims of the state, what is the reason for this and who will collect these claims? And last question: according to the estimates of the Ministry of Finance, what amount would it be realistic to be repaid to the Bulgarian State from the actions taken by this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u91	For an answer, Mr. Goranov, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kadiev, according to the information provided to me by the Syndicate through the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, the final report was received on 7 December 2015, but the provision of recommendations by An action plan has been prepared to implement the recommendations made, which is consistent with the competent court in the light of the location of the final assets, their assessment, the likelihood of their recovery and the expected reimbursement costs. Outside of the report, Alix Partners also received Adhok recommendations to the CCB's syndics, involved in negotiating, including internationally. At the present time, in accordance with the action plan, the trade union and the law firms involved shall have jurisdiction in different jurisdictions. From the end of last year to the present, 287 statements have been challenged for more than 303 million. BGN, continuing the preparation of claims to challenge all intercepts within the legal deadline. Actions have also been taken to secure CCB's claims in bankruptcy and to fill in the bankruptcy table on the basis of the recommendations of the report and the action plan. The main part of the assets of the bank, as well as the headquarters of the unfair debtors of the bank are in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is why a large part of the cases are brought before the Bulgarian courts. The proceedings shall be competitive and shall take place in several court hearings and in three courts. The effect of all steps taken on the basis of the action plan, in accordance with the legislation in force, is a function of the judgments of the courts in the respective courts and mainly of the courts in the Republic of Bulgaria. In this sense, a result in lawsuits can be expected in an upcoming, future period of time. Is a company hired to collect the bank's assets? The Bankruptcy Act requires the investigative company to follow up and recommend actions to the syndicate aimed at collecting the bank's assets and not to take action on the collection. Actions to complete the Bank's insolvency rate may be taken by the trade union or creditors of the bank by initiating the relevant legal proceedings. According to information from the Syndicates in view of the jurisdiction where final assets are discovered and the probability of their recovery are employed Bulgarian and foreign law firms specializing in the relevant matter and practitioners in the territory of the countries concerned. In answer to your third question: how much is it realistic to repay the Bulgarian State from the actions taken for this, I would like to remind you that the Bulgarian State has provided a loan to the Deposit Guarantee Fund to cover the lack of payment of the guaranteed deposits in the Corporate Commercial Bank in bankruptcy, with the total amount of the funds used under the loan agreement being 1 billion. 675 million. lv. The total amount used is used to pay off the guaranteed deposits in CCB. So far, the Fund has strictly fulfilled its commitments under the loan agreement and we expect it to recover 100% of the funds used together with the agreed interest rates. As regards the funds of accounts and deposits in BGN and in the currency of the budgetary organizations in CCB, they are 100% secured by blocking government securities according to the requirements of the Public Finance Act. The blocking of securities is carried out in front of the Bulgarian National Bank and has the effect of a legitimate special bet on them in favour of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u93	The line, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks for coming. I don't know if you've heard my questions to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u95	I'll answer you, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u96	Whether we answer statements afterwards or now, but I will return to the questions about CCB, which are no less important, although corruption in the country is another important issue. Dear Minister, you said that the company "Alix Partners" gave the final report in December 2015 and continued giving Adhok advice. The contract, which has never been published for unknown reasons, had to answer precisely this question.................................................................................................... We never know if that's true. We only read the report. If there's any Adhok advice after that, it's unknown to us. You also answered if a company was hired to collect the bank's assets. You said it was a Syndicate duty. Now let me remind you who the Syndicates are.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u97	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u98	There are two of them, one of whom is an accountant from Troyan, I hope not from GERB - Troyan, the other is a freelance lawyer from Varna. I allow myself to express some doubt in the quality of their work. After all, I can have as many doubts as I want, but it's important how much money will be raised. If they are able to do what you said to 100% collect what the Debt Guarantee Fund has given 2 billion. 100 million...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u99	One billion six hundred and seventy-five million.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u100	A billion 675 million, thank you, then they will be true heroes! Allow me to make you an estimate: even if you collected the 303 million you mentioned there were already legal proceedings, that would again be heroism. My expectations are to collect no more than 5% of the bankruptcy table.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u101	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u102	And all of this is largely due to the fact that, since September 23rd, when the first report was given by Alix Partners, to this day, I think there are no adequate measures taken, because in the report, if you have read it, quite specifically... You actually said you wouldn't read it, right? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There was such a statement, which is odd for me that the Minister of Finance did not read such a report. There were very specific things that had to be done. Find a law firm in this jurisdiction, find a law firm in this jurisdiction, secure this, secure third, fourth and fifth. That's how money is collected. After all, the end result will show where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u103	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev, you're running out of time. A hole, Mr. Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u104	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Kadyev! I cannot quite agree with you that the problems in KTB arose between 23 September 2015 and today. What I can assure you is that all that is needed has been taken and we have done all the necessary and possible legal steps to restore what KTB has lost as much as possible. However, we still owe a reminder that the biggest problems in KTB arose before bankruptcy, and the biggest looting was probably when parliament had no will to change legislation and decide what would actually happen to KTB. It's been a long time, I'm talking about 2014 between its announcement under special supervision and its bankruptcy. There is no way to distance ourselves from the fact that many things have happened during this period that are unfavorable in terms of the mass of insolvency. However, I assure you that, thanks to the political will of this Parliament, we have changed legislation, so that all legal forms of recovery are in the hands of those who manage bankruptcy. Surely the forecasts you are giving are very negative and soon, I hope, if the Bulgarian court is working at the right pace, we will have results in this direction and in a good way you will be disproved.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u105	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Dukova, procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u106	Madam President, my tolerance does not allow me to do you a second time this procedure to limit the time of fellow Members who speak here, but my conscience makes me do this procedure when colleagues say false things, untruths and things that have nothing to do with the procedures that we do on Friday and the questions that are being asked. I cannot forgive this incompetence of Mr. Kadiev, who is not a first term MP and who knows that Friday's questions do not come to you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u107	To me, Mrs. Dukova, the procedure is for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u108	You didn't stop him. The questions are not asked to you, but asked to the relevant ministers. Please limit the intolerant tone of the room and the untruths. Because I never once saw him and I didn't hear him say about his millions and the orders his wife made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u109	Mrs. Dukova, out of the way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u110	Thank you, colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u111	I will accept that part of your procedure to me when it comes to the time that the MPs are using, as Mr. Bayraktarov also rightly noted. I've made a sound signal in a timely manner. I hope this is reflected correctly in the stenogram as well. Continuing time is a natural search for conflict. I won't give that opportunity. But I will use the two minutes as a personal explanation to answer Mr. Kadyev's questions. You are right that you are out of the procedure, but otherwise this is the goal to seek personal conflict and opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u112	Here you go, Mrs. Tsacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kadiev, each Member of Parliament, as well as the parliamentary groups, according to our Rules of Procedure, shall be entitled: the Members of the National Assembly to broadcast their own work assistants, who shall be registered in the National Assembly's register. The same goes for the parliamentary groups. Neither the President nor the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly are involved in this procedure as it develops between the assistants of the parliamentary groups and the respective MPs. It is true that yesterday, the people's representative you mentioned asked for an associate of his to be removed from the register. But from here to make references and suggestions that, within more than 24 hours, come out of the normal tone of relations between MPs, I think it is time to put an end to these suggestions. I am facing you, before the National Assembly, before the Bulgarian citizens and if you wish to see me at your own initiative, as you have done so far, or at my own........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. We continue with the questions to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. The next question is from several MPs "Valery Simeonov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev" regarding the company, with which on the basis of the Law of Bankruptcy was concluded the contract for investigation the draining of "KTB" AD. Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u115	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! In its press release on the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund website of 7 March, the latter points out, in connection with media publications on the contractor company, that At the same time, in a letter I e-mailed. No 85 of 1 March 2016 by the Syndicates of In other words, here as a counterparty to the contract, a company is quoted as different from what is indicated in the press release of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. In one case, there is talk of "AlixPartners Services UK LLP" and in the other about "AlixPartners UK LLP." It's missing the word "Services." In this regard, Minister, please answer the following question: with which company is concluded the contract for investigation the draining of KTB AD and are the requirements of the Law on Bankruptcy for International Experience in Investigation of Bankruptcy, in which countries and how old is it? With regard to the reply, please also consider the following publicly available documents from the UK Trade Register, according to which the UK LLP, registered on 12 January 2015, is owned by a group of natural persons and the legal entity
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u116	For an answer, Minister Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Andreev, before I answer you in the way the answer is prepared, I will only make the comment that I do not wish to think that the attempt to discredit an international company is aimed at discrediting the conclusions in the report. If you are trying to discredit the report, you are therefore trying to discredit the conclusions in it that show that the Bank is run in a very bad way. After this arrangement, to protect you from this suggestion, I give you the following information. Following a procedure for selecting an investigative company by the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund, based on the presentation of the Alix Partners and given their experience in similar situations, the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund has concluded that the company meets the requirements laid down for international experience and expertise in investigating bank defaults and asset tracking. The contract between KTB PLC (n) is in bankruptcy and "Alix Partners Services UK LLP" has been concluded on the basis of art. 31, para. 1, t. 17 of the Bankruptcy Act. Under that provision, the trade union should entrust, in agreement with or on a proposal from the Governing Council of the Fund, to persons having the necessary international experience in investigating bank defaults, to carry out follow-up actions and recommend to the trade union actions to preserve and repay the assets of the bank of assets by which the bank has ordered, in breach of the law, good banking practices and/or where the latter significantly exceeds what was received, as well as in the case of loans granted in the event of insufficient or missing collateral, or to related persons where such transactions or transactions have led to a deterioration of its financial situation. "Alix Partners" is a leading international company for business and management consulting services and since its establishment in 1981 has been working on some of the most serious bankruptcies, fraud and emergency corporate situations in the world. Over 1,500 professionals work in the company's offices around the world, its team provides services in more than 200 countries. The company has applied its expertise in tracking assets in over 70 jurisdictions and has reimbursed tens of billions of US dollars to stakeholders, including governments and insurance funds. "Alix Partners', as well as many other multinational professional services companies, operates through several separate trading companies relevant to the jurisdictions where it operates. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, On 31 December 2014, the Board of Directors and the Financial Statement of "AlixPartners Limited" announced on 16 February 2015 the acquisition of all commercial operations and assets of "Zolfo Cooper LLP" and "Zolfo Cooper Ltd" by US dollar paid for the acquisition of 200 highly qualified experts, including part of the management team, active commercial relationships and key customers. At this time, the company took part in a significant number of restructurings, having extensive experience in bank restructuring, liquidation, bank crises, including millions of frauds, mismanagement, audit negligence, as well as asset tracking and legal claims for the collection of assets acquired by fraud. In conclusion, from the above, AlixPartners Services UK LLP, with which the CCB trade union (n) has entered into a contract, is a specialised international investigative company that has the necessary international experience and expertise in investigating bank defaults and asset tracking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u118	A line? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u119	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, although you read your reply quite quickly, I was able to catch a name of a company that you mentioned. I mean, I can tell by what I heard. I ask you again because our question was quite brief, clear and in no way would I say, sugesting or discrediting anyone. We simply asked: which company was the contract for the draining of KTB signed with? Here logically it was expected to hear a short answer with one-some company. Listening to the name of AlixPartners Services UK. Which you just mentioned, there are two very serious questions that I think you should put very sharply to the Syndicates. First of all, how does this company, after being registered on 12 January 2015, conclude this contract five months later and what international experience does it have for these five months? It seems to me that it does not have one, and I pay attention to you that in the Law on Bankruptcy, in art. 31, para. 1, t. 17 is explicitly stated that the company with which the contract is concluded must own, I quote, an international experience in investigating bank defaults. Not the parent company, not any third company, but the company with which the contract is concluded. As a good financier, I suppose you understand perfectly well that then the lawmaker's will was to have responsibility, because it is one thing to conclude with a company, as you have quoted, with a ten-year-old, not to say a longer history, with an impeccable reputation, and with this reputation to ensure that the task is accomplished; another is to conclude with a subsidiary of his of five months. Things are quite different as a possible subsequent responsibility, for example, for failure to fulfil the tasks assigned, but also as a reputation. So this issue stands, and it stands even scarier, after on 22 January 2016, as you can see from the documents that we have presented to you, the parent company in question, Alix Partners, is withdrawing from this company. Then the question arises: if we do not make a covenant with whom at the time, who is it with now? So where is the parent company in all this work and is it responsible for fulfilling and further fulfilling the commitments under this contract that no one has ever seen? Please specify precisely: with whom has the contract been concluded and does this company meet the requirement to have international experience in investigating bank defaults? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u120	The father is responsible for not the mother.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u121	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u122	I think you've heard the answer to who we signed a contract with. The Treaty of Syndicate is concluded with "AlixPartners Services UK LLP." The press release for the acquisition of Alix Partners states that the largest group of company renewals and restructuring in Europe is established, which offers a powerful package of services for companies that need quick results to protect, preserve and increase the value of shareholders. I'm done with quotes. Two weeks ago, a meeting was held at the Ministry of Finance with representatives of the British Embassy, of the Alix Partners Services UK. I could ask them again with representatives of the British Embassy to participate in this meeting to see for yourselves who we have negotiated with. Otherwise, on their behalf, I would like to tell you that the British Embassy reacted as follows: I therefore propose that we continue this debate, but not from the parliamentary tribune, but to order you to the Ministry of Finance, to invite the company from London and to hold a meeting so that I do not get the impression that the only goal is to discredit the results of the report when it becomes public sooner or later.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next questions are again to the Minister of Finance. Thirty minutes of rest until 12.10 pm and we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u124	We're continuing the hearing. There is one more question left for Minister Goranov and he is from the MP Willi Lilkov on the activity of the working group to develop a methodology for drawing up a plan the bill with the necessary costs for the activities and the types of foundations that serve to determine the amount of the municipal waste charge. Here you are, Mr. Lilkov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, this is the second time I have asked this question. Last year, I made such a request in relation to the working group, which should prepare a methodology for determining a waste charge, which is different from the methodology that the municipalities in Bulgaria are currently applying, namely the determination of a waste charge mainly based on tax assessments of citizens' property. This issue is important because, firstly, it concerns the entire population and companies. Secondly, it is important because it violates the Law or, more precisely, the principle that the polluter pays. Third, because the decision taken in 2014 is constantly postponed. I would like to remind you that this methodology, firstly, had to be completed in 2014, the deadline was extended until 30 March 2015, and today we are 1 April 2016 and this methodology is not ready. In this regard, I ask you the following questions: at what stage is the preparation of the new methodology? Secondly, what are the reasons why the deadline has not been met? And thirdly, please specify a specific deadline when the working group will complete its work, because another extension will now be really serious and as an attitude towards the parliament which has made these decisions about the deadlines and the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u126	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, in accordance with the provision of § 13 of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees by order of the Prime Minister on 9 January 2015 was established the group you are talking about with representatives of municipalities, business and administration. At the first meeting of the Working Group it was decided to develop, firstly, a draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees and after its adoption and promulgation to draw up a draft methodology for drawing up a plan-account with the necessary costs for activities for the types of bases which serve to determine the amount of the household waste charge. The purpose of this decision.. the preparation of the methodology is to be in full compliance with already adopted and promulgated changes to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. It should be noted that the work of the working group was extremely difficult due to the opinions expressed by businesses and municipalities mutually exclusive and proposals, the lack of constructive dialogue and interaction to provide information, data, analyses, and impact assessment on the countries concerned. A similar way of working in the working group implies the preparation of a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, which does not adequately reflect the specifics of the order and the way to determine the charge, which are within the competence of municipalities and businesses. On 18 November 2015, the members of the Working Group sent for the fourth time for opinions and proposals drawn up by the Ministry of Finance a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, Reasons and Impact Assessment. The opinions expressed again contain mutually exclusive proposals, as well as those which are different from the decisions of the interdepartmental working group taken so far. As a result of the last coordination, first, the Ministry of Finance prepared a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, which reflected all participants in the Working Group's remarks, as well as the types of foundations on which consensus exists, or reflected remarks of the majority of representatives in the Working Group, and is ready to submit it to the Council of Ministers within a short period of time, for example by the end of April. Due to the fact that no reasonable compromise has been reached for all interested parties on the main issues, at present the Ministry of Finance is unable to propose such a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees to be supported by all parties involved in the interdepartmental Working Group, but we are prepared to propose amendments to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, which is in the direction of diversifying the foundations that can be enjoyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u128	Thank you. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am partially satisfied with the answer you give, Minister Goranov, because last year you really promised that a bill for amendment and supplement to the Local Tax and Fees Act would be prepared. This year I hear that you are setting a deadline within which it will be tabled April 30th, but unfortunately, it will not be able to satisfy the interests of both business and citizens. Do I understand you correctly? I'll look forward to this Law. We will also try to help as MPs, but I wish to express the regret that a two-year working group has been appointed by order of the Minister of Finance and it cannot reach a single opinion on a problem which concerns, unfortunately, all Bulgarian citizens and all Bulgarian companies. We'll be expecting your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u130	Thank you. Are you going to use a hole? No. We are going to ask questions to Nikolai Nenchev, Minister of Defense. The first of them is the MP Willy Lilkov on inscriptions in the large concert hall of the Central Military Club. You're welcome to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Nenchev, my question is linked to several meetings with former and current military personnel, which I have held in recent years, to which they have very often expressed a sense of insult with regard to the inscription in the large concert hall of the Central Military Club. What's this about? In this hall, as we enter, with plaster elements high above the walls, are written several years with very important historical significance for Bulgaria: 681 г. The creation of the Bulgarian State; the glorious victory of Khan Krum over Emperor Nikifor in 811; 1205. The battle in which King Kaloyan defeated Edirne the crusaders of Emperor Baldwin; the victory of King Asen II at Klokotnitsa over Todor Komnin 1230; 1876 who were associated with the April uprising and the Liberation of Bulgaria; 1885. The union of Bulgaria and the Serbian-Bulgarian war and the legendary victories of the Bulgarian army at Adrianople and Dobrich 1913. Right next to them on the stage as a frieze was set the date 29 March 2004, which should logically fit into this string of important historical victories of the Bulgarian army, in which thousands of Bulgarians and Bulgarian officers died. I am convinced that few guess that then the Republic of Bulgaria became an official member of NATO. This sign was placed at the time the Ministry of Defense was led by another minister. I know someone else ordered this date. In this sense, I ask the following question: will you order in the series of marked dates written in the Grand Concert Hall of the Central Military Club to remain only those who are directly related to the magnificent exploits of the Bulgarian people and its glorious army? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u132	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Maybe in 1944, 1945, participation in World War II should be there, but let the minister say all the dates.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u133	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Lilkov! I inform you that on the frieze above the stage of the Hall of Concert of the Central Military Club was written the date 29 March 2004 when the ceremony was held at NATO headquarters in Brussels on the raising of the national flag of the Republic of Bulgaria. This date was most likely written during the renovation of the Hall of Concert in 2005, when the Central Military Club was in the management of the Executive Agency of Military Clubs and Information. Bulgaria's membership in NATO is a crucial moment in Bulgarian political and military history. Joining the Alliance is a result of lengthy public debates and a broad political consensus that has answered the question of what we need to do in order to produce security in a collective format. A new principle change in strategic thinking was imposed on the nature of Bulgaria's national security and responsibilities in the new dynamically changing global environment. Our NATO membership radically changed Bulgaria's position in the strategic security environment. Above all, as a member of the Alliance, our country guarantees our national interests as best and as efficiently as possible and expands its instruments of impact in solving global security problems. On the frieze in the hall "Concert of the Military Club next to the dates of important battles are placed and the predominance dates of the Bulgarian history. The removal of the date 29 March, in my opinion, will give a bad signal to the Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u134	You have the floor for a line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u135	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. I fully agree that Bulgaria's entry into NATO is an important historic moment and I have definitely personally supported our NATO membership. I strongly agree that this membership has changed strategic thinking in terms of defence, as you say, but I think there are other ways in which we can express our attitude with regard to NATO membership and there must be some logic when we give signs when we sign one or the other events. In this sense, Minister, I remain on my opinion that this date should not be written in this string of glorious victories of the Bulgarian Army. Bulgarian wars died there. There died the color of the Bulgarian officership in all these battles and victories that we had. We may in other ways and even more dignifiedly express our membership and respect for NATO membership and, I assure you, no one will blame you for doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u136	He doesn't have an ass. The next question is from MP Tasco Ermenkov on sending troops from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in NATO's operation to enhance the anti-aircraft defence of the Republic of Turkey. Here you are to present and motivate the question, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I, based on the previous answer here, connect it to NATO with me, will probably be a little naive, but with the date on this wall I feel that we have declared war on NATO and defeated them, so there is the inscription as a country winner, but it doesn't matter. This is a topic for the Ministry to decide on. I would like to ask one question and I am very happy that the answer that I will receive will still happen before those people I ask for have returned to Bulgaria, because they still have some time on a business trip. I always thought you'd only answer me when they came back and tell me there's no such thing, but let me ask you the question. Here it says so in the question, and you will relate it to today because the project is not only submitted as it is written in my question, it is even implemented, for a decision to send troops from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in NATO's operation to enhance the anti-aircraft defence of the Republic of Turkey. In this regard, on 24 February 2016, I asked you with what powers and funds will the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria participate, as it was in the Draft Decision, in this operation? This is something that I am very interested in, even more so, that you remember very well that, on your proposal, we have admitted ourselves with the changes that we cannot protect our own airspace, and now we are sending someone to protect someone else's space. And yet I am glad that these people have not returned to Bulgaria yet, so perhaps the issue has some actuality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u138	You have the floor, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, we can protect our own airspace and do it perfectly, so there is no reason for concern. Let me give you a little more information to understand the meaning of this participation. The National Mobile Module for Communication Information Systems is the first formation of NATO formed in Bulgaria. It is part of NATO's command structure and is part of the Second Contact Battalion of the NATO Communication Information Systems Group. The task of this Module is to maintain NATO communication and information headquarters in their participation in missions, operations, crises and exercises. I inform you that the Republic of Turkey has made a request to NATO to amplify its anti-aircraft defence, which has been satisfied. Italy took over this function and was determined to deploy its anti-aircraft defence battery in Turkey as part of the operation. The NATO CIS Group with its Second Communication Battalion, which participates in the Bulgarian National Module, provides communication and information about the Italian battery. According to the plans to carry out these activities, the Commander of the Second Contact Battalion of the NATO Group, the Bulgarian module must go into standby mode within the next four months in order to be able to unwind, if necessary, within a short period of time, in order to provide communication support to the NATO-based battery in the Republic of Turkey. In implementing this decision, the Module will provide up to five servicemen. The technique with which the Module participates, both in operations and exercises, is entirely owned by NATO, as it will carry out the communication links between the networks in the Alliance. For your information, the National Mobile Module for Communication Information Systems has already participated in two rotations in the operation in question in Turkey and one rotation associated with decisive support in Afghanistan. Finally, Mr. Ermenkov, I would like to thank you for this question, because it gave me the opportunity to actually show the meaning and the way of the functioning of Bulgaria's membership in NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u140	Thank you. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u141	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Yeah, I get it. In fact, what you have just said, it already has a long time of publicity and has come out in the press, in messages, it is nothing new and I suppose that no one here is surprised by your information, but I will take your last words in which you thank for showing how NATO works and how Bulgaria's membership in NATO works. I would like to ask you: which other countries besides Italy from the region would afford such an environment critically when, rudely speaking, the Ates kick, to send someone there to suffer. You know what happens to a donkey in such cases. Moreover, to send people to a region where we have strong opposition to one of the countries with which we want to have good economic ties. Moreover, this is happening on the eve of a tourist season in which we hope that from this country people will come to Bulgaria and fill it up and ask you, just like this, quite human: Did you ever consider that, apart from the solidarity Bulgaria has towards its membership in NATO, there should be one solidarity, above all, of the government of Bulgaria with the Bulgarian people and with the Bulgarian economy and not even put at theoretical risk one such relationship with some participations, which, on the one hand, apart from demonstrating any practical benefit in the given situation, except that it poses problems which I told you? They're of a purely foreign policy nature. The Ministry of Defence is hardly concerned, but in my opinion, when such decisions are made, one must make common measures what is happening with what we do on the overall policy and internal and external of Bulgaria and its security, including. Because NATO membership is about increasing our security, not putting at risk foreign economic and foreign policy problems and solutions that are ultimately an element of this national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u142	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Let me say this once again, it is about five liaisons, and here you have made specific findings related to NATO, but I would just like to tell you one thing: Bulgaria has both expectations, obligations and responsibilities to NATO, so we must fulfil these responsibilities. Moreover, I mentioned that this communication centre and centre, which is fully run by NATO and our boys have been working there for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We now move on to a declaration on behalf of the Patriotic Front, which will be presented by Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At the beginning of today's meeting, we heard the Declaration of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which made several accusations and attacked several Bulgarian intellectuals who raised the issue of the dangers of illegal migration and the subsequent consequences of terrorism, which we are seeing throughout Europe. They very much like to talk about minority rights, about the rights of different people, talk about xenophobia, blame anyone who speaks critically, but the truth is that problems should be looked into the eyes as they are, not smear them, as they have been plastered over the past few decades. The reason for this Declaration is the increasing or, more precisely, unstoppable domestic crime. Enlarged on its scale and insolence domestic crime puts the whole of Bulgaria in a single slavery and impunity. Statistics are filled with cases of beaten, killed, raped and abused, robbed and humiliated Bulgarian citizens, often at a decent age, alone, helpless in front of those criminals and criminals for whom there is no sentence, because thieves take property worth less than the minimum wage. This is the law in the rule of law European Bulgaria.. Small-scale crimes are not prosecuted. About a week ago, 83-year-old Boris Spasov of the Vidin village of Cherno pole was brutally beaten by two Gypsies, both repeaters. The assailant, the main bully, is 33 years old with eight convictions for theft, hooliganism and attempted rape. In January this year Andonica and Stefan Stefanov from the boiler village of Kipilovo were beaten by a masked youth, entered the home of the elderly family with a knife and after threats took their last 8 BGN and the court issued a conditional sentence for this act. Again in January this year an elderly family was beaten up in a robbery in his home in the village of Golyamo Tzarak, Plovdiv. A 75-year-old man and his 70-year-old wife were surprised by three masked men breaking and entering. The attackers brought the elderly couple to a helpless state and attacked with a hard object. After they searched the apartment and found nothing, the three of them escaped. That same month, an elderly family of farmers were beaten in their beds. The attack was carried out in their home in the village of Kamburovo, Omurtag municipality. In October 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 October 2015 to 31 October 2020. The 94-year-old Emilia Busova of Vidin has become another but unfortunately not the last victim of the violent domestic crime in Bulgaria. Thieves take 30 leva. and a blanket and they beat her fatally. A month later Emilia Bouzova rests. The worthy life of the woman who was a teacher ends in torment and humiliation. The only person in custody was the same ethnicity that was then released, and there was no evidence. In the Northwest, in the Pleven region and in part of southern Bulgaria, but not only there, this is known to the police scenario, which is part of a black statistic, which is held that the claim was committed by unknown persons. The common thing between the beaten old people Boris, Andonica, Stefan and Emilia, as well as hundreds of others, is that they are adults, helpless and unable to defend themselves, alone in the face of criminals who, by all laws of the state, should serve effective sentences and not be free, relapseists who do not know morals and law, but only animal races to take away dignity, property and human life! These are just some of the extremely severe attacks on elderly people, mostly in small settlements where there are no district police stations, no patrol officers, no law, no security, no order. I'm not afraid to name the problem. No matter how much after that someone accuses them of being accused on some basis, it's the truth! And the sooner we look her right in the eye and take action, the better. However, the problem in this case is not whether the perpetrator is a gypsy, a Bulgarian or any other by nationality. Everyone and everyone must be equal before the law. That's what Levski said! The problem is that our country does nothing to stop ghettoisation, and that they allow in the ghetto a sense of impunity. In July 2015, the Patriotic Front set a deadline for the government to fulfil the commitments made regarding domestic crime. This was one of the conditions to support the government. Domestic ethnic crime is a problem on which we believe that the measures taken at the time do not have a satisfactory effect. More personnel and financial resources are needed to address domestic crime. Dear colleagues, in our opinion, in order for the government to deal with this problem, we need to take the following measures today in order not to look at the tears of our elderly parents and fellow citizens tomorrow: First, strengthening police presence in small towns. Secondly, engagement through temporary employment programmes of former police and public order military officers, but not appointed by mayors and regional governors, but appointed by regional police directorates. Thirdly, the restoration of citizens' voluntary teams to assist the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Fourth, expanding the scope of inevitable defense. Fifthly, increasing penalties for crimes against elderly defenceless people and without bail for such perpetrators. Sixth, quick production of the moment by on-the-spot courts and the execution of the perpetrators of such crimes in indoor labor camps, where they can endure their punishments and acquire work habits. Seventh, removing the so-called minor crime, which is basically a denial of justice and retribution. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary! We call on the government and the National Assembly to have a serious debate on the issue and urgent action, because it is clear to everyone that there is no more time! Such events have been observed for two decades. For two decades no one wants to radically solve this problem, hiding behind a few excuses, missing funds for the police and talking about human rights. However, I ask: where are the rights of the victims, who are mostly elderly people living in villages and small settlements that the state has punished with miserable pensions, lack of health care and lack of protection of their lives, property and dignity? This can't go on any longer! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u146	We continue with the questions from parliamentary control. The People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov has the floor to ask his questions about the policy of the Ministry of Defence to ensure the integrity of the Bulgarian borders.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u147	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The question is dated February 24, 2016. I will edit it a little bit to make it sound more up-to-date. The point is the same. It is known that with the latest amendments to the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria your ministry has been entrusted with additional functions for protection at the border of the Republic of Bulgaria.............................................. which has been decided........... In this regard, I would like to be informed of the policy of the Ministry of Defence and what measures will be taken by the Ministry of Defence to ensure the privacy of the Bulgarian borders here I will miss a line in the light of the growing risk of increasing the refugee flow towards Bulgaria? I'm missing the order because you see it's not up to date at the moment. We don't have an increase in tensions between Turkey and Russia. There's a one-level holdup. Therefore, I do not ask you in the sense of ever-inspiring, as recorded. Please answer my question, bearing in mind that the border of the Republic of Bulgaria is not limited to land land land borders. We have maritime and air borders. In this complexity, I would ask for the answer to the question: what measures and what will be the policy of the Ministry of Defence to ensure their integrity?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u148	Here you are, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I share your concern. Indeed, the situation around the Bulgarian borders is too disturbing and is related to the growth of the refugee wave. Currently, there are over 50 thousand refugees in Greece living under extremely difficult conditions in refugee camps. The situation in the Republic of Macedonia, in the Republic of Serbia, is similar in the Republic of Turkey. We took concrete action long before the Law was passed so that we could be ready for each particular case and moment to react. A lot of work was done before the Law was passed and came into force. I would like to inform you that I have also updated my question and explain to you, first of all, that it was not my fault that I did not do it earlier. I have also taken concrete actions: I have made bilateral meetings with my Macedonian colleague, where I have informed him of our intentions to assist the Ministry of Interior; I have informed him and asked him to activate activities with regard to exchange of information, because you yourselves understand that the exchange of information is extremely important. I had the same meeting with the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Serbia and with the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Romania. In the next few days, I will see the Minister of Defence of Greece, whom I will ask again for much closer cooperation, dynamic cooperation and daily, annual exchange of information. With the amendments to the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, specifically in art. 57 activities which the Armed Forces can carry out in peace time have been authorised, as assigned a task of specific participation in the security of the state border. The armed forces shall have forces and means, if necessary, together with the forces and funds of the Ministry of Interior to contribute to the security of the state border. Given the possible complexity of the situation and the increase of the migration flow along the Bulgarian border as concrete measures for the implementation of these commitments, the tasks of the Armed Forces were defined and joint actions between the forces and the funds of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior were coordinated. The details of our joint border security task, which are also reflected in the respective plans, have been developed together with the Border Police. The instructions lay down clear rules for the conduct of servicemen during security. There is also written in what situations a weapon can be used for self-defense. In order to improve coordination, a joint exercise by the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence called Granica 2016 was held on 5 March 2016, which I consider to be extremely successful. On 24 March, we had joint training with officers of the Directorate-General for Border Police in the region of Ilinden. The improvement of the preparation by conducting joint studies and exercises between the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence will continue in the future. We have witnessed you are right about a permanently degraded security environment. The security of the state border of the territorial sea and our joint activities with the Ministry of Interior will be our main and immediate task. In this regard, after a week we plan to conduct a drill by sea to show readiness for crisis response. Perhaps we will do it in the region of Burgas and later in the region of Varna. Since you are asking about the protection of the border of the Republic of Bulgaria, it is implemented within the framework of a mission.Defense.In accordance with the strategic plans for the use of the Armed Forces and under the conditions of collective defence of the allies of the North Atlantic Treaty organization, as well as within the framework of the European defence and security policy. In this regard, the Armed Forces shall carry out planned, prepared and in accordance with the tasks assigned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u150	Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor for two additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u151	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Thank you for your reply, thank you for your concern regarding border guards to prevent its uncontrolled passage. I am glad that there have already been developed instructions regarding interaction. My further question is: do these instructions, of course, within the scope of the possibility of public disclosure of this information include not only coordination at central, regional level, but coordination at field level? I will simply ask the question: if the Instruction provides for a joint patrol of the border, who takes command of the respective border section as a whole and the command of the respective patrol that will carry out this action? You know that the preparation of the army and the preparation of the Border Guards is very different and there is a danger of conflict and collisions, that is to the extent that you have done so, whether you are working it out one question. The second question is: because this also requires funds, are funds provided for these activities? I'm not going to ask you about the size, but whether they'll be on time on the respective budget items of the Ministry of Defense, because so far you've been spending upfront money. Is there any clarity when this money will be refunded to you? In the planned 3 billion. BGN, which are for the Program for the Development of the Armed Forces of Bulgaria, you have also provided for funds that are related to repair of fighting equipment and equipment or purchase of such equipment for the needs of the implementation of the tasks assigned to you by the amendments to the Law on Defence and Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u152	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u153	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I understand your concern. We've taken every precaution we need. By my order, it was carried out, first of all, the training of our servicemen by both the Ministry of Interior and their specialists and by the Ministry of Defence. We had joint activities and events. You're right. We signed joint plans and instructions together with Mrs. Bachvarova. From the joint trainings and trainings I have been convinced on the ground, in practice I have been visiting these areas four or five times already, that our servicemen are well prepared. Coordination is at an extremely high level. So far, we have had no problems with misunderstandings between the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the authorities of the Armed Forces. As far as the funds are concerned, I have made a report in which I will insist to the Council of Ministers for the release of an additional million leva, which will be for the special forces. We need them. A decree was also adopted, which will provide financial support for all activities we have under security at the Bulgarian border. But, the security of the people, first of all, so we will make all of them feel secure and convinced that the state institutions work for their security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u154	You have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov, to express your attitude to the answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u155	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I was somewhat satisfied with the answers so far, but your last answer did not satisfy me particularly in its completeness. However, I did not hear whether and how equipment would be provided, whether the equipment of the relevant divisions, forces and means to be used there would be updated and compliant. Will and in what way will additional fighting equipment for security be purchased, above all, and additionally for defence at our maritime border? Is there anything in the three billion to increase the ability of the Bulgarian Army with its own powers and resources to perform air policy? If there is such a provision, is the question discussed, on the one hand, what is more rational about buying second-hand aircraft, as has already been said, or restoring the possibilities of the plant "Terem" in Plovdiv for repairing aircraft equipment? This, on the one hand, will allow jobs to be created, and the economy will be strengthened. Among other things, there will be revenue in the budget from this additional activity. There'll be opportunities for repairs on other planes if that's what's going on. I ask you very much, when you go to revise this programme, bear in mind all these opportunities, because in addition to purchasing equipment and ensuring the safety of Bulgarian citizens, the integrity of the border, we must also take care of the economy of the state, because the stronger the economy, the more money will be available for defence. I hope, when you make a decision, it will be complex and not only in the interest of the Bulgarian Armed Forces, the Bulgarian Army, but also combined with the interest of the Bulgarian economy, because it is not in a state in which it could give money to foreign countries for things it could do on its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We move on to the next issue, which is from the National Representative Atanas Zafirov on the use of a military plane "S-27 G Spartan" for the transport of persons to Poland.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u157	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me also first join the satisfaction expressed by my colleague that after a relatively long waiting answer to a rather simple question from February, today I hope to receive an answer. Dear Minister, on 21 and 22 October 2015, a delegation led by you visited the Republic of Poland for the signing of a contract for repair of engines................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This event was loudly announced and reflected by the media present. The MPs, members of the Defence Committee, were invited to participate in the delegation to the Forty-third National Assembly. However, it did not become clear from the broadcasts from how many people was the Bulgarian delegation, how many and which MPs took part and, notice, my most important question, all others are from him: what was required for transportation to be used a special military plane? Please also answer the following: were journalists transported with the plane? If the answer is yes, who determines which media they are from and for whose account they were flying; how much the flight costs, including the payment of flyers, technicians, airport staff, as well as the overall event; have they been posted and to what extent are the delegation members paid? In conclusion, has a cocktail been made by a Bulgarian party and who has paid the expenses for it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u158	Here you are, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zafirov, the visit to Warsaw and the signing of the Intergovernmental Agreement to ensure logistical support of the aircraft was of strategic importance to our national security, given the serious condition of Bulgarian aviation. It also had a symbolic value demonstrating solidarity between the peoples in the eastern part of the European Union and NATO in the complicated international environment. It is for these reasons that the MPs were invited, as you have already mentioned, by all parliamentary groups. Since the visit coincided with the campaign for the local elections, the MPs... You couldn't be there. In terms of flight costs, they are as follows: $7088 and BGN 7040. However, it should be borne in mind that the Spartans must carry out regular training flights. Whether they will be with the presence of people who travel with him or without, these flights are mandatory, which also require costs. So its use in this case led to a real budget saving. The delegation I led was represented by the Head of Defence, the Deputy Chief of Defence, the Head of the Political Cabinet, the Advisor of the Minister of Defence, the Director of the Defence Office, the Head of the Armed Forces at the Department of Defence and two officers of the Department of Defence. All the costs of the delegation's residence in Warsaw were borne entirely by the Polish side. As for journalists, representatives of all media accredited to reflect the activities of the Ministry of Defence were invited. All journalists were posted by the relevant media at their residence and hotel expenses. On our part, only the flight was provided with "Spartan." The journalists attended: Asen Boyadzhiev, reporter of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, Aleksandar Markov, reporter of the Bulgarian National Television, Iliya Ivanov, operator of the Bulgarian National Television, Julian Hristov, reporter of the "Of News" Agency, Dobromir Videv, Bulgarian National Radio, Vladislav Prelesov and Nikolay Nikolov from the Military Television Channel, Todor Tokin from the newspaper. Plamen Petrov, Bulgarian Army, Reporter of the TV station, Canal 3 and Martin Nikolov, operator of Canal 3. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Ministry of Defence has not paid in any form financial funds to journalists who have covered the event in Poland. Mr. Zafirov, thank you, since I was informally asked many times whether the Ministry of Defense paid for a cocktail or any other dinner? No, it's not like that, it doesn't answer the truth. We haven't paid any costs associated with feeding the delegation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u160	You have the floor for a line, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. First of all, I would ask you not to call this event a visit, but to characterize it by its real name, namely a trip at the expense of the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u162	It was an official visit. We've been accepted by the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u163	You didn't answer my most important question: what was required to use a special military plane? What did you do with that thing?! What was the reason you used a special military plane? Excuse me, but in the way you have answered me, I cannot escape my doubt that it is a form of PR and a search for some media popularity, because nothing in this signing of a treaty requires such a gathering of journalists, such a large delegation that you have quoted. Quite in conclusion, may I also express a doubt in the accuracy of the figures that you have quoted, and I consider a reasonable doubt whether they really include all the costs of the visit?! That's why I asked you flyers, paychecks, technicians for a reason? So I asked how much the whole event cost? Excuse me, you want to convince me that nearly four hours of flight with Spartan is worth 7,000. The dollar?! I cannot deeply agree with this, and I will ask you to be more precise in your response. Regarding the cocktail, I didn't ask you if the Department of Defense gave you a cocktail, and I asked you if there was a cocktail and who paid for it? Didn't the Department of Defense pay for it, I asked, "Is there a cocktail and who paid for it?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u164	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u165	Dear Mr. Zafirov, the numbers are correct. Indeed, this visit was a sign, all the more so because we had bilateral meetings with both the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Poland and representatives of their headquarters. No, there was no cocktail. The official delegation was invited by the Minister of Defence at the Ministry of Defense for a work dinner and that was it. It was a short time indeed. We did everything we could to deal with it within a few hours. And it was. We have achieved concrete results and I believe that this is justified. As far as costs are concerned, Mr. Zafirov, the truth is true, but it requires us to be specific not only in this case, but also in others. That is why I have always been extremely precise, and I have always asked the Financial Directorate to give me very precise references to each expenditure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u166	I asked you how much a flight time is worth to Spartan?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u167	But since you're asking about these expenses... It's not PR, it's not self-promotion. Perhaps you've paid attention and realized that since the beginning of my term, I've refused to travel first class? You can check that easily. If you make a reference to my travels, you will find that considerable expenditure has been saved on the budget of the Ministry of Defence. On the other hand, I've ordered, I've forbidden, when I travel, to use apartments. I mean, I'm using regular rooms again to do everything I can to save the Department of Defense. I wouldn't have shared these decisions if it wasn't for your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u168	Thank you. We are moving on to the last question to you by the National Representative Antony Trenchev concerning the appointed employees in the system of the military repair plants, whose company is "Terem" EAD.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! The question that I am putting today about the appointments and general about what is happening in "Terem" EAD seems important to me, and not only because of the huge media interest and debate that has developed in recent weeks. As a matter of fact, I had brought it in before. Since we also had an informational occasion, it seems right and appropriate to explain once and for all exactly what is happening there and from this high tribune you give your answers so that there is no cause for speculation, whispers, any kind of rumors that create unnecessary noise in the system and in the information stream. I would ask you to answer the following questions: what is the number of employees employed in the system of the military repair plants, which is responsible for the period from January 2014 to 1 March 2016? For what reason and on what grounds have personal changes occurred and what are the financial indicators of the company as of March 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u170	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Trenchev! Under the Rules of Procedure for the exercise of the rights of the State and commercial companies with State participation in capital, the Council of Ministers or ministers exercise the rights of the State in commercial companies with state participation in capital, according to their industry competence. The Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria is a joint stock company with sole owner of capital and is registered in the Commercial Register with the Registry Agency. The trading company has a single-level management system. The company's authorities are the sole owner of the company's capital. The Minister of Defence and the Board of Directors, consisting of a total of five persons. In particular, when I took up my position in November 2014, Terem EAD was in an unenviable state and the losses amounted to 5 million. 141,000. lv. As a result of the changes in the management for 2015 the expected financial result is a profit resulting from 3 million.175 thousand. lv. As for appointments and redundancies, they correspond to the needs of the undertaking and its subsidiary. In particular: the number of staff is reduced by two people; in the "Terem" is increased by 22 people; in the "Terem" is reduced by 13 people; in the "Terem" is increased by 7 people; in the "Terem" is increased by 7 people; in the "Terem" is increased by 6 people; in the "Terem" is increased by 6 people; in the "Terem" is increased by 4 people; and in the "Terem" is increased by 4 people; and in "Terem" is not amended. In 2016, the management will continue to pursue a policy to upgrade the pronounced positive trend in 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u172	You have the floor for a line, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am somewhat satisfied with your answers, but they also raise a number of other questions that I hope you can answer. Do we have a clear reason for these, I would call, crying results from the previous 2014? On what basis and why did these losses occur in these millions? The result for 2015, which at this stage is only forecast, when we will be able to have it as confirmed and concrete, because you yourself said that for now this is at the level of forecasts. Publications were published in the media that there have been signals from the prosecution specifically about the firm's weak financial performance... at what stage have these signals been developed and what is happening on this side of the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u174	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u175	Mr. Trenchev, the results for 2015 are clear and I just quoted them. Perhaps you're asking me about 2016 what they are?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u176	No, for 2015. You said they were forecast.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u177	I said that's the profit, and it's clear. I hope for 2016 they will be much better. As far as the checks are concerned, I am very pleased when checks are being carried out. I assume that they will answer the question why in the past the company was in such a state and there were such great losses.. I hope so. Accordingly, and nevertheless, I have ordered inspections of both the Inspectorate and the internal audit. I hope the results satisfy you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u178	Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control, Mr. Nenchev. We are moving on to questions that Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer. Please invite Minister Zaharieva to enter the room. The first question is from MP Metodi Andreev on the accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Estonia Initiative of 22 August 2015 on the establishment of a specialized international court for the crimes of communism. Is Mr. Andreev here?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u179	He's out doing an interview.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u180	Didn't he fight communism consistently? Did he give up the question? [[Noise and lines.]] Is he coming? Then we'll get to the other question. They did not declare that they had achieved communism, but according to Metodi Andreev and other internationals there was such a system and the fight must continue. Mr. Dimitrov, please come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct. I hope this isn't to buy Mr. Andreev time until he gets here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm surprised you keep talking about communism. There's no such thing as BSP, that's what you're telling us. Your member is President of the European Socialists. Are you saying you're not communists anymore? Do I know whether I should believe you or not, I'd like to ask? From this high tribune, I see that some emotions cannot be restrained, and they should be. Please, while you're at the meeting, do it impartially. I hope, if ever possible, that this past of communism will ever be overcome and indeed someday you will become socialists, honourable Members, and that this will show up in your speeches in some way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u182	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I partly accept your recommendation in terms of objectivity. I merely remarked that the communists did not declare that there was communism, and today's Democrats claim that there was communism. This is part of an ideological discussion, which I invite you to attend in other forms and not in the Assembly. Mr. Andreev, if you'd like to ask your question, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, first of all, I would like to apologize for asking you this question, because you were not a minister at the time when it came to what I asked you, but I found out about this initiative by the Estonian Minister of Justice about two months ago, so you must answer anyway. On 23 August 2015 in Estonian capital Tallinn was held an International Conference on the Theme of the Criminal Heritage of Communism and Nazism, dedicated to the European Day for Honoring the Victims of Communism and Nazism, which was celebrated on 23 August. A day earlier on August 22nd, Estonian Justice Minister Urmas Rainsalu announced a proposal for the establishment of a specialized court with the status of an interstate body to investigate and condemn the crimes of communist regimes. We must investigate the crimes of communism and together condemn them. Today, the crimes of communist regimes are not of the competence of any international court. In his words, the crimes of communism need to be condemned for the memory of millions of his victims and for the new generation of Europeans who need to know that communism is a criminal and anti-democratic ideology. At this conference, representatives of the justice ministries of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Georgia issued a joint statement on the need to investigate the crimes of communism by supporting Mr. Rainsalu's proposal. In this regard, I ask you the following questions: firstly, is the Ministry entrusted with the information about an invitation to participate in the abovementioned international conference in Tallinn, held on 23 August 2015? If there is one, what was the reason why the Republic of Bulgaria did not send its representative? Secondly, as Minister of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria, do you approve of our country's idea of joining the initiative to set up a special court to condemn the crimes of communism and, if so, will you send an official letter to the Minister of Justice of Estonia, Mr Urmas Rainsalu, expressing our willingness and desire to be included in this international initiative?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u184	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Mrs. Zaharieva, please answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u185	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Andreev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Such an invitation to take part in the international conference "Criminal Heritage of Communism and Nazism" dedicated to the European Day for Honoring the Victims of Communism and Nazism was addressed to the Ministry of Justice. As far as I am informed, due to a prior commitment, the Minister has not participated in it. I hope that you will understand that I cannot comment on the program of my predecessor and why there was no representative of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Bulgaria at this conference. I am informed that during the conference organised by the Estonian Minister of Justice, representatives of the justice ministries of Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Georgia supported Mr. Rainsalu's proposal to establish a specialised court with the status of an international body to examine and condemn the crimes of communist regimes. All this we have learned from publications in the media and requested information after your question from the Embassy of the Republic of Estonia in Bulgaria. At the moment, however, there is no formal proposal for accession to the initiative at the Ministry of Justice. In relation to your question to me, you ask me whether as Minister of Justice I approve of our country's idea of joining the initiative and as Minister I will answer you that I could engage in serious consideration and discussion of the proposal by the competent Bulgarian institutions, which under the Constitution should approve such a proposal. As a citizen, I personally would support such an initiative, not just to tell the relatives and relatives of the thousands of victims of this regime that they will receive moral satisfaction, which would sound too pompous, but especially to show the Bulgarian society that we have not forgotten and should not have unpunished crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u186	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Andreev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u187	Madam Minister, thank you for your honesty. Indeed, the fact is unpleasant, although there was an invitation and a proposal to the Ministry of Justice at a time when this was organised in Tallinn, and I cannot find an excuse for the former Minister Hristo Ivanov, who, by the way, as a reformer should strongly defend this particular thesis that I am asking for right now. As for your commitment, I ask you very urgently and very quickly to do all these studies and to join this international initiative, because Bulgaria always stands away from such really useful international initiatives. I reserve the right in time to ask again about this coordination that needs to be done. I guess it should go to the Council of Ministers. I believe that Prime Minister Borisov will not refuse and will not leave behind such an initiative, because he has always stated that the victims of communism should be respected and justly requited. I therefore believe that the Council of Ministers will also stand behind you, so I ask you to do the relevant research quickly and to send this letter to join this group of countries.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u188	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Madam Minister, for the back? You don't want to. The next question to the Minister of Justice Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva is from the MP Vili Lilkov on the implementation of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. Here you go, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my question relates to the implementation of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. I am periodically informed about how this Law is implemented and how the Central Commission under Article works. 4, para. 3 of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. What I have found in recent years is that there has been a drastic delay in solving the case files of citizens who have applied for recognition that they have been repressed. In this regard, and with my successors, where I meet with such citizens, I ask you the following questions: what action will you take to make the Central Commission work effectively under the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons so that all the files received are resolved within the time frame? Secondly, how many requests or files are there currently in the Central Commission? Are there any requests in the Central Commission from repressed individuals on whom there has been no ruling since 2009? 2010? If any, please indicate their number and in what administrative areas are the requests received? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u190	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u191	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Lilkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons delegates powers to the Central Commission to establish precise facts and circumstances, namely the basis, nature and duration of repression. The Central Commission shall rule by reasoned decision recognising the existence or absence of illegal repression and its duration. In the Law and the Ordinance on its implementation, there is no procedure for exercising control by the Minister of Justice, but I have nevertheless ordered, and since Deputy Minister Filipova is President of this Commission, I can assure you that twice a week they gather and see them personally with my eyes, every quarter the President of the Commission himself has allocated it to provide information about the work carried out during the period for these three months. The receipts received by the Central Commission under art. 4 of the Law shall be dealt with in the order of their entry. The Commission shall meet by considering about 20 files at the meetings, depending on their legal and factual complexity, that is, the capacity of one meeting at which the files may be examined. Despite the fact that the deadline for submitting applications for repression under the Law expired in 2011, a large number of requests from regional governors and from the territorial divisions of the NSI continue to be made in the Ministry of Justice. You know that the application is submitted to the district governor who has to carry out an official inspection and send the file to the Central Commission in an official capacity when the facts are to be established. Indeed, there is a delay in pronouncing some of the files, with a large number of old and unconsidered applications being accumulated among the reasons. I really do. In the period from 2004, when the Commission passed from the Council of Ministers to the Ministry of Justice until mid-2006. The composition of the Central Commission has not been established from 2004 to 2006. That's one of the reasons for the delay. For almost two and a half years the composition has not been determined, and for these two and a half years more than 4,500 files have been received in the Ministry's proceedings. Apart from that, in 2010, the Ministry of Interior was sent by competence of the Central Commission over 1800 files. The repeated amendments and additions to the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons and the introduction of new categories of entitled persons are also part of the reason for the delay. In relation to the new categories of entitled persons introduced, I think that in 2010 was the last amendment, there were 650 requests. The delay in the examination of the files is also due to their incomplete completion before being sent to the Central Commission and the Central Commission must therefore return and request, respectively, the additional documents to be submitted by law and regulation. Directly to your question: how many pending files are there at the moment? Currently 239 from the Central Commission for the period 2011 to now. This is the information that has been submitted to me as a report from the Central Commission. For the 2009 periods, there is only one case file that has not been completed since 2009. The repression in relation to the person has been recognised, but a specific inquiry has been made in the letter of the district governor concerning the application of the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. However, it is examined on the page of the Central Commission and a decision is yet to be made, that is, a change to be made. Finally, I would like to assure you that I have ordered the increase in the number of files to be submitted to the Commission and, as soon as possible, to try to overcome this delay with these 239 files. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Mr. Lilkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u193	Thank you. Madam Minister, what I'm establishing by comparing the numbers I have with me is that last year the delay was from a total of 414 files from 2009 to 2009 2015. Now about 40% have decreased these files. But if we work at this pace, I think that the 2013-2014 files will have to be solved in 2018. Allow me to express my opinion that for 360 thousand. lv. spent on the work of this Commission for the last six years, this work is not satisfactory because the information I have written on the same subject, of course, not with the same questions, shows that an average of about 54 thousand. lv. The work of this Commission shall be spent annually. I think she should work at a much higher pace. Thank you for personally interested in her work, because she was really neglected. And I ask you very much to speed up the upload of decisions on the Ministry of Justice website, something that I have been insisting on happening in the last two years.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u194	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Madam Minister, this was the last question for you, so I wish you a pleasant job. We move on to questions asked to the Minister of Environment and leads Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva. The first question by the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov on the implementation of two projects in the municipality of Sandanski "Scare of Levunovo and the sewerage of the village of Leshnitsa. Here you go, Mr. Stoyanov. You have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! My question to you relates to two projects in which Sandanski Municipality is the respective beneficiary. These two projects concern sewerage of the village of Levunovo and respectively sewerage of the village of Leshnitsa. As I said, Sandanski Municipality is a beneficiary in the expired programming period of these two projects. They shall be financed by the management undertaking and environmental protection activities. Following their approval, their implementation shall also begin by granting the respective phased financial instalments. In 2009, the two sewerage projects were frozen with a view to changing funding priorities in POWs, focusing mainly on waste and large waste water treatment plants. In the planned period 2007 - 2013 under the Rural Development Programme the municipality of Sandanski was able to implement projects in the field of water supply and sewerage and consequently it benefited from this opportunity. Initiated and unfinished the two sewer projects undoubtedly worsen and lower the standard of living in the two settlements. Realizing and understanding the new priority basis in the new programming period of the POWs, as well as technical and financial difficulties in the final implementation and completion of these two projects, which are from the last programming period, it is necessary and appropriate to seek opportunities and tools for their completion. In this regard, Minister, and with the agreement that you have no direct guilt regarding the suspension of these projects, my question to you is: what are the reasons for stopping the implementation of the two sewer projects of the village of Levunovo and Leshnitsa in the municipality of Sandanski and are there any technical and financial opportunities for their final realization and completion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u196	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mrs. Vasileva, please answer your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u197	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Stoyanov! In response to your question, what are the reasons for stopping the implementation of the two sewer projects of the village of Levunovo and the village of Leshnitsa sofa Sandanski, I inform you of the following. For a project sewerage of the village of Leshnitsa in 2004, Sandanski municipality applied for a grant of 3 million. 322 thousand. £745. by the enterprise managing environmental activities. By decision of the Governing Council of 19 October 2007, a grant of 400 thousand was granted. lv. for the implementation of part of the project. A contract has been concluded for the funds approved by the Governing Council between the PPOOS and the municipality for the amount paid 374 thousand. £744. for the performance of the construction works and the contract was concluded. The municipality of Sandanski submitted a request to finance the project, on which a total of 1 million were allocated by a decision of the Governing Council of the PPOOS in 2008 and 2009. lv. for his realization. For these funds, there is no signed contract with the PPOOS because by decision of the Governing Council of 26 August 2009 and 30 July 2010, the funding was cancelled due to lack of financial collateralisation and modification of the priorities of the PPOOS. The decision of the Management Board of Sandanski Municipality has been notified. For the project sewerage of the village of Levunovo in 2006, Sandanski municipality applied for a grant of 4 million. 854 thousand. lv. From the enterprise for managing environmental protection activities. A decision of the Governing Council of 23 June 2008 granted a grant of up to 500 thousand. lv. to carry out part of the activities. A contract has been signed between the municipality and the PUDO for the amount of 499 thousand paid out. 953 lv. for the implementation of the construction and contract works approved by the Governing Council and has been concluded. There's been no movement on the case since. The municipality of Sandanski has not submitted an application to the PDOOS to finance the project. Regarding your question, what are the technical and financial possibilities for the final implementation of the projects, I would like to inform you that the two projects do not fall within the priorities for financing the PPOOS because they concern agglomerations below 2000 equivalent residents. In accordance with the requirements of the Water Act to build a centralised sewerage, the municipality must prove that there is a purification value or has ensured the parallel construction of one. That is, it is not permissible to build sewerage if the purification is not ensured. If this is the case, I would like to inform you that under the Rural Development Programme, projects for agglomerations below 2000 equivalents are eligible for funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u198	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Stoyanov, you want the floor for the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I thank you for your information on the case. It is indeed a prominent chronology, factology and the reasons for stopping these two projects. The priorities of the PPOOS are evident, as you have said, and of your office regarding the sector of water management. At the beginning of February 2016 at a conference, you declared that in the current 2016 environment and water sector, municipalities will be able to have over a billion leva around a billion and 200 million. BGN, with one third of this amount being for already approved projects in the field of the sector "Waters and for large cities, one small part "about 200 million" are for already approved projects, in fact the so-called "phased projects" for municipalities from the last programming period and really and de facto it turns out that the most vulnerable and the most victims are from those approved and started projects related to the sector "Waters" in those small settlements under 2000 people, as you said. From the chronology that you exported, it is obvious that hundreds of thousands of levs have already been invested not only in these two projects, but, of course, there are probably dozens of others. In this regard, I would like to tell you that, although small settlements, they are not with desiccated functions. There's an active young population there. They really rely on the respective municipalities, parliament, the Council of Ministers, a government and the relevant state institutions to do their job and, above all, to do their job. In this regard, let us really make a good appeal to you...................... to you........................................................................... I know it's really hard, but whether it's going to be through the state budget, whether it's going to phase projects during the new programming period, but let's not forget these municipalities too. In this way, we will not only satisfy the inhabitants of these settlements, but we will really show a fair treatment of all settlements, not just of large urban agglomerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u200	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u201	Thanks for the comment. I certainly agree with you that the needs are great. This has also been reported by colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works who are in charge of the Water and Sewerage sector. You know the needs are great. As far as the Ministry of Environment and Water is concerned, the priorities are clearly set out in the programme and account for large agglomerations. Possibilities are available through the PUDO in case the criteria that I quoted were met. As I mentioned, the Rural Development Programme is another possible tool for free funding and it is aimed precisely at agglomerations below 2000 equivalents. What is important is to implement the reform of the water sector, and the expectations are that it will really lead to the sector becoming effective, that the water companies can also invest in the network, reinvest and maintain a quality system for providing water services to the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u202	Thank you. The next question to the Minister of Environment and Water is from the MP Willi Lilkov about the state of the mineral springs, which the Ministry of Environment and Water transferred free of charge to Sofia Municipality. Here you go, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is about the state of the mineral springs, which in 2011 the Ministry of Environment and Water transferred free of charge to Sofia Municipality. Then this was done. For 25 years the property of the municipality was transferred free of charge to the mineral springs at the Central Mineral Bath, sq. "Batalova Gymnasium," the property of the former bathroom, also in Lozenets district. In the village of Zheleznitsa, in the village of Zheleznitsa, in the village of Ovcha kupel. "Hope" and "Pancharevo." Then Sofia Municipality announced, and several times afterwards, investment intentions for: First, concession of part of the Central Mineral Bath and in the quarter. Lozenets for spa centers, as well as for the mineral water supply of the pool. Second, for heating of the buildings of the Department of Architecture and Urban Planning, of the Council of Ministers, of the Social Ministry and the building of the National Assembly of Pl. Independence. Third, for the construction of a beach with mineral water at the park of Renaissance. Fourth, to build an aqua park around the spring near the square. Cheloprene. At the property transfer ceremony, the then Minister of Environment and Water stated that he would fully cooperate with the municipality for the realization of the projects and that if the municipality did not start the absorption of the mineral resources within five years, the deposits would be returned to management by the State. Since then, I have been actively interested in this issue. Even in my report, the Sofia Municipal Council decided more than four years ago to build a specialized structure in Sofia Municipality for the exploitation and development of mineral deposits. My question is this: In what state are the mineral deposits in which the state transferred to Sofia Municipality, and are the investment intentions fulfilled? What control did the Ministry of Environment and Water exercise during the past period on the course of the implementation of the municipality's intentions, what recommendations did it make, and what assistance did Sofia Municipality provide to meet their investment intentions? I would like to say in advance that I would not be satisfied with a response that says that the temperature of the springs, mineral and chemical composition is constantly monitored, and I would like to be specifically answered with regard to the investment intentions of Sofia Municipality what control did the Ministry of Environment and Water have, and what do you intend to do, as the five-year period has already expired? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u204	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Mrs. Vasileva, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u205	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Lilkov! The government's undisputed priority is to stimulate municipalities for the use, use of this valuable resource, the mineral waters at our disposal. That's why we're launching a program. In the middle of the year, we will announce our programme to support municipalities with partial funding of activities related to the construction and maintenance of the network for the water supply and the distribution network respectively. As you have said, this policy is our priority, and that is why the Water Act was amended in 2011, which gave the municipalities the free right to manage and use the water from the mineral water reserves for a period of 25 years, if there are no existing concessions or less than 51% of the established operational resources. In this connection, with the Decision of the Minister of Environment and Water in 2011, the Sofia Municipality was granted for free for management and use of eight mineral water fields, exclusive state ownership of Sofia As regards the first question, I inform you that, in fulfilling its obligation as a manager of mineral water fields discovered through wells or captivated natural springs, Sofia Municipality has undertaken activities to study the technical condition of the facilities provided to it for management and use. The facilities of seven of the fields are in good technical condition and are fit for use as water-based facilities. Only for the locality provided for the management of the locality Sofia sofia "Batalova Gymnasium" conducted a specialized survey found that the facility from the field is in poor technical condition. In this regard, the Ministry of Environment and Water sent a written recommendation to Sofia Municipality to entrust additional renovation activities to the facility from the field with the aim of bringing it into operation. In compliance with the provisions of the Water Act Sofia Municipality annually until 31 March presents its reports on the use of mineral waters and provided to it for management and use. For the period from the provision of the fields until now Sofia Municipality has performed its duties by managing the fields provided to it by carrying out activities under: the award of the field studies to assess their operating resources; the preparation of projects for the identification of a sanitary zone; the launch of a procedure for the issuance of balneological assessments and the carrying out of analyses of mineral water from the respective locality. In a report by the Chief Architect of Sofia Municipality was presented to the Ministry of Transport and a draft decision of the Municipal Council on the acceptance of a tariff for mineral water water charges, published on the municipal page. In this sense, Sofia Municipality has exercised its right to manage and use the eight mineral water fields provided to it. As regards the specific intentions and plans for development and exploitation, these are issues of the competence of local self-government bodies. Ministry of Environment and Water has cooperated with Sofia Municipality [[the President signals that time has run out]] in the implementation of its actions in the management of the localities in the municipality, issuing recommendations and opinions, providing information on water-based facilities in the fields, participation in meetings of the Expert Board on a structure of the territory of the municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u206	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Lilkov, I see you want to make a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I'll say this. Sofia is the richest capital of mineral waters as a common resource and as hydrothermal types of water. However, what Sofia Municipality has done in the last year is a zero, Madam Minister. I am directly aware because I am in constant contact with the Bulgarian Underwater Association and because I am related to colleagues who work directly in this area. Thirdly, I've been constantly interested in what Sofia Municipality does. The only new thing she has made as a step forward is the tariff introduced by the chief architect in 2016, notice the use of mineral water. Regarding the condition of the facilities, I personally undertake to take you to the yard of the school Adam Mitzkevic in the district of Hope to see the littered drillings for more than 20 years! I am ready to take you to Milen Kamak Street and Evlogi Georgiev and see what is the state of the drillings in the district of Lozenets. I'm ready to take you to the Ovcha Coupe to see what the condition of the mineral bath is. She hasn't done anything in all these years! The only thing in good condition is in front of the Central Mineral Bath, but there the vast majority of the resource is poured into the sewers. I would like to stress that nothing has been done by Sofia Municipality! The specialized structure for exploration, exploitation and development of mineral springs has not even been created! I ask you very much as owners to enter your rights and duties, because in the countryside were made a table of spa centers, balneological centers, mayors did their job in many places. The private business invests there and nothing has been done in Sofia! I'm very interested in what's going on with the mineral spring in Batalova gulfitsa? In a few days we'll find the Renaissance Park there. This mineral spring, which is said to be genetically linked even to the field at the Central Mineral Bath, will it be exploited? What is going on with the drillings that were made in the yard of Sportna Sofia, which is 200 meters from the park of the Renaissance? Take a look, please! That's a serious question. We can't keep polishing our shoes on every election campaign with this topic, and for more than five years nothing can be done, and before that, the Ministry doesn't care for years! Thank you. Excuse my tone, but it's about Sophia's wealth. I'll recommend you. I've made special films on this subject. Look at them on the Internet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u208	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Madam Minister, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u209	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, I cannot help but share your desire to make use of the resource. As I mentioned, this is a top priority. Certainly this is important not only for the capital, but also for other cities in the country where mineral water deposits exist. Therefore, as I mentioned, a National Programme for the Assistance of Municipalities will also be introduced. Not only that: according to the information I have available, as far as I know, it is also published on the Sofia Municipality's website, Sofia's General Planning Plan is a strategy for using the potential of hydrothermal resources in the territory of Sofia Municipality. A program for resource recovery with long-term and short-term measures to the Municipal Plan of Sofia Municipality was developed. There is no doubt that Sofia has opportunities through the instruments, programmes that use European funding to implement investment projects, to support the efforts of municipalities to develop localities, facilities. Water use is important. As you said, this is our wealth and we must use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u210	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov on the readiness of the beneficiaries under the Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 - 2020 - Priority Axis 1. Mr. Ivanov, order to develop your question to Minister Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u211	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! As we know, the main element and the main efforts will be aimed at the sector again under the Operational Programme "Environment." In this regard, on the basis of my observations, as Vice-President of the Committee on European Funds and from their contacts with beneficiaries in this priority axis, there was concern about their readiness for this programming period, about their ability to prepare their application projects, namely for water operators, which are the main focus and at the European Commission's insistence on the new Operational Programme. Please answer the question: according to your data, what is the readiness to apply for approval of a project proposal by the beneficiaries who are identified as priority in the regional pre-investment studies, namely the water operators? Are they ready for you? Are they willing to develop projects because unlike the previous programming period, when the municipalities were beneficiaries, now the water operators are in a worse position. They are institutionally under the hat of another ministry, they are not to you, you have no direct access to them. We have information that in this situation the municipalities do not particularly want to cooperate in the process. We want to understand whether the concerns are justified and whether everything will go smoothly during the next programming period, because by 2020, there is not much time left, there are not many days, and the projects that should be realized are extremely complex and quite hard-working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u212	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Madam Minister, please answer Mr. Ivanov's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u213	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, as you mentioned, according to the new Operational Programme "Environment" a major part of the resource " 70%," amounting to 2 billion. 300 million. lv. is aimed at the water sector. Currently, the so-called early projects are being implemented, following the approach valid during the past programming period, because water reform is also taking place, because it is expected that water operators, as main beneficiaries of the aid, will be able to implement projects that will lead to maximum effect from the point of view of planning, priority investments in critical sections and elements of the systems. In 2015, two procedures aimed at supporting the reform of the water sector and the realization of investments in the water sector during the programming period were announced under Operational Programme. The beneficiary of both procedures is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as responsible for policy in the water sector. The objective of the first procedure is to support the regional investment planning of the water sector at 61 million. 512 thousand. lv. is the implementation of integrated regional investment planning through the development of regional pre-investment studies. These regional pre-investment studies will analyse the technical and economic needs of investments at regional level, propose technical and economical solutions that must be implemented in the territory of a consolidated area and contribute to compliance with European and national legislation in the field of drinking water, waste disposal and treatment, water protection. The expected result of the implementation of the procedures measures is the preparation of quality documents for water operators to apply for the operational programme for infrastructure projects in the territory of the 14th consolidated area, which will speed up their application process. The purpose of the second announced procedure "Supporting efficiency, management and institutional capacity in relation to the implementation of the reform in the water and water sectors' worth 15 million. 840,000. lv. is precisely the development and strengthening of the institutional environment and capacity for efficient management of the water sector, and the provision of quality water services in accordance with the requirements of European legislation and good international practices. The project activities implemented by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works include strengthening administrative capacity through trainings and/or organizing information events with stakeholders, including associations of water, water operators, regional administrations, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and others in order to increase efficiency in the management, planning and regulatory and financial reporting of the plumbing sector. The procedure will also support the implementation of the contractual framework for the management, operation and maintenance of public water supply infrastructure and the provision of water services necessary for the implementation of infrastructure projects under the operational programme and the implementation of the water reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u214	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u215	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Indeed, measures have been taken to improve at least the administrative capacity and the readiness of water operators to launch successfully for this programming period. As an additional question today, I have learned from the press that contracts of 38 million have been concluded. lv. with consultants to do the initial research on these regional pre-investment projects, which at least improve the quality of the documents drawn up, which should present the water operators when applying for this Operational Programme, but could you please explain to me whether these funds, which will now be spent, will not be a repetition of the so-called master plans issued in 2014. If I am not mistaken nearly 51 million were spent there. Does it happen that a repetition of what has already been done and the worst that can happen is a repetition of mistakes that have in some way already been pointed out by the European Commission in the negotiation of the next programming period? And what is the readiness of the Ministry of Environment and Water to monitor this whole process so as not to allow such concerns, which I am now expressing here, before you, so that there is no failure in certain municipalities and water operators in the preparation and then the implementation of the water projects, because in this programming period there will be no such rules N+2, N+3 and there is a serious danger of loss of funds, and this is also in the interest of the whole country, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u216	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Madam Minister, would you like a coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u217	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, in fact, during this programming period only the N+3 rule applies. N+2 no longer applies. But anyway, the question you asked is to what extent will regional pre-investment studies be the valid basis for realising the projects? This is the explicit requirement of the European Commission in the period of negotiations that have been held for both the Partnership Agreement and the Operational Programme. The need arises from the National Strategy for the Water Industry, which was adopted in 2014, where it is explicitly stated that it is necessary to move towards regionalisation and to the consolidation of the sector, the establishment of 28 regions. You mentioned the so-called master plans. These are plans and documents, but on a higher hierarchy level. Regional pre-investment studies require in-depth analyses both technically and engineeringly and financially economically. So these are the documents we're tracking. We have a very good coordination with our colleagues from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and there is also a special unit in the Ministry of Environment and Water, which has already been formed Be assured that the interaction between the offices as well as the participation of JASPERS, the participation of the European Commission in all formats and stages of the processes, ensure traceability and ultimately quality results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u218	Thank you and I, Mrs. Vassileva. The next question to the Minister of Environment and Water is from the National Representative Boris Yachev on the activity of a marble quarry in the area of "Besaparski hills." Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the locality of the Besaparski ridoves at the border of the municipalities of Stamboliiski and Krichim was declared by decision of the Council of Ministers No 122 of 2 March 2007 for a protected zone BG 0002057 of the European network of Natura 2000 under the European Union Birds Directive. In this regard Bulgaria has made a commitment to the European Union to protect the European bird's natural heritage in it. On 29 October 2008, the Minister of Environment and Water issued Order No 786 of 29 October 2008 prohibiting activities contrary to its conservation objectives in the area. This Order expressly prohibits new quarrying of underground riches. The Council of Ministers, contrary to the order issued three and a half years later on 18 May 2012, provided the company with an illegal concession D-00601 for 35 years for the extraction of marbles in the area BG 0002057 Natura 2000 "Next to the village of Kurtovo Konare." Since then, the company has been actively developing careers, explosions and noises from rocking and crushing machines scare the birds and drive them out of their habitat. Despite local mayors' assurances that the land destroyed by the career activities will be recultivated, such a reclamation has not been made so far. There is not built and dew system against excessive dusting of the area, and after the series of blasts usually the groundwater in the village of Kurtovo Konare and the neighboring Novo village disappear for a long time. The habitat of birds protected by the European Directive such as the Imperial Eagle, the hunting eagle, the White-tailed buzzard, the thick-billed lark and other 22 species of birds listed in Annex 1 to the Directive is highly threatened. This violation of the directive is against our country's sanctions and the suspension of EU funds for the environment. The outraged inhabitants of the village of Kurtovo Konare have gathered nearly 2,000 signatures under a petition sent by them to the European Parliament and a complaint to the European Commission in which they want to stop the career in order to save the natural heritage. In view of the facts listed here, Minister, my question is: What are the findings in the findings made by RIEW - gr. Plovdiv, check the activity of the career? And in the event of violations, will the Ministry of Environment and Water take the necessary legal actions to terminate the concession contract of Persenk Invests Ltd for their career in the area of the Besaparski hills?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u220	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Mrs. Vassileva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u221	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Yachev, in response to your questions and in accordance with the competences of the Ministry of Environment and Water, I would like to inform you of the following. The quarry for the extraction of marbles in the locality "Kurtovo Konare" does not fall within the boundaries of protected areas within the meaning of the Law on protected categories. The field falls within the boundaries of the protected zone "Besaparski hills" designated for the conservation of the wild birds under art. 6, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 of the Biodiversity Act, announced by order of 29 October 2008 of the Minister of Environment and Water. The protection zone border notification order prohibits the disclosure of new underground treasure extraction quarries, except for those for which a search authorisation and/or investigation authorisation and/or study has been initiated, and/or a registered trade discovery initiated or granted. The search and survey authorisation procedure started with an application for a search and study on 15 January 2005, i.e. prior to the entry into force of the order for the designation of the protected zone. In this regard, and given that the activity is open in quarries at an area of 25 hectares, it is included in Annex 1 to the Environmental Protection Act in 2011 in the Regional Environmental and Water Inspectorate Plovdiv, a procedure for environmental impact assessment and a procedure for assessment of compatibility with the subject matter and with the objectives of protection of protected areas has been carried out under the Biodiversity Act. A positive EIA Decision 2011 was issued by the Director of the Inspection. By decision of the Council of Ministers of 2012 was granted a concession for mining of underground wealth, construction materials, marbles from the locality of Kurtovo Konare. On 14 May 2014 a contract was signed between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism and Persenk Invests Ltd., Plovdiv. During the period 2012-2014, there were no infringements of the conditions laid down in the EIA Decision during the checks carried out by the Regional Career Inspection. In 2015, an exceptional inspection of the site was carried out following a green telephone alert at the Regional Inspection, related to the disorganised issuance of dust from the career activity, where it was found that no dew was carried out on the working areas and career paths. An act has been drawn up for the operator's infringement and a criminal order has been issued to impose a penalty of 2 thousand. lv. A prescription is given to perform road dew and equipment of the crushing installation with a dew system. From September 2015 until now, six career checks have been carried out by the Regional Inspection in Plovdiv. I would like to assure you that the Regional Inspection is carrying out strict control of the site and that appropriate administrative and criminal measures will be taken in the event of a breach of environmental legislation. In the event of circumstances of significant pollution of the components of the environment in accordance with the requirements of the Law on Underground Treasures, the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Energy, which has competence, under the Law on Underground Treasures, will be notified about the need to take legal action with regard to the concession contract with the company Persenk Invest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u222	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Yachev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, my line will be very brief. It is in the direction of the last part of your response in relation to the regular checks on possible violations of the Environmental Protection Act. I have already taken steps in the Ministry of Energy to early termination of the concession contract, one of the reasons, among other violations of the terms of the contract, is art. 23: In the event of a subsequent environmental hazard to the environment, and para. 2: In case of non-compliance by the applicant with the requirement to protect the environment and reclamation of violated terrains. You yourself mentioned that a prescription was given more during This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For According to my information, two weeks ago, such an installation hasn't been purchased yet and hasn't been installed. The firm continues to operate in violation. In conclusion, I would like to inform you of something that I received on my email literally a few minutes before parliamentary control that the Initiative Committee of the residents of the village of Kurtovo Konare intend to organize a petition, a petition and a protest before the National Assembly next Friday, as I understand it, and to the Ministry of Environment and Water. They'll want contact and a meeting with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u224	Thank you. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yachev, thank you for the concern that you express. I share it fully and you need to be confident that we will be irreconcilable to any violations of the legislation concerning environmental protection. In this sense are regular checks. In case the Ministry of Energy takes action to end the concession contract, I assume that the data from the checks carried out by the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection will be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u226	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the last question to Minister Vasileva. He is from the National Representative Manol Genov on the ongoing disposal of construction waste at an illegal landfill in the village of Pervenets, Rodopi municipality, Plovdiv district. Dear Mr. Genov, you have the floor for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u227	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is about the continuing disposal of construction waste at an illegal landfill near the village of Pervenets, Rodopi municipality, Plovdiv district. Dear Minister, in the village of Pervenets, the municipality of Rodopi continues to operate a landfill for construction waste. Is it appropriate to carry out this activity and does it comply with existing legislation? Who is the company operating as a depot operator? Has she ever paid waste disposal charges before and how much are they? Have the Regional Inspectorate for the Protection of the Environment and Waters of that site been inspected? Have any prescriptions been made? Are there any violations of environmental legislation found? Dear Minister, what measures has the Ministry of Environment and Water taken so far, and what will your future actions be to meet the requirements of the Waste Management Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Minister Vasileva, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, the landfill for construction waste in the land property, public municipal property, in the locality of Chakleka, village of Pervenets, municipality of Rodopi is owned by "SR Specter" EAD, village of Pervenets. In 2010, the Director of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection in Plovdiv issued an authorisation to carry out transport, temporary storage and disposal activities through disposal of construction waste for five years. Regular checks have been carried out at the depot by RIEW "Plovdiv," and violations of the requirements of the Waste Management Act have been found and the following administrative criminal measures have been taken for them: - for failure to comply with the conditions of the permit "Soc. Specter" EAD, the village of Pervenets was sanctioned by 3000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - for the non-payment of two consecutive monthly charges for disposal of waste the municipality of Rodopi was sanctioned by 110 thousand. BGN, of which 60 thousand lv. were paid by the municipality and the penal decree issued in the amount of 50 thousand. lv. has been revoked by the Administrative Court of Plovdiv. On 11 March 2015 all due refunds to RIEW were paid to Plovdiv. For the period 1 January 2011 "30 March 2016" the amounts received from deductions under art. 64 of the Waste Management Act from the municipality of Rodopi are BGN 447 466. In 2015 the Director of RIEW Plovdiv issued a registration document for construction waste activities for concrete, bricks, tiles, faience and ceramic products, etc. The registration document allows only an installation for the treatment of construction waste on the site for the purpose of their subsequent recovery and does not provide for the disposal of construction waste. On 10 March 2016 by RIEW Plovdiv, a planned inspection of the construction waste depot was carried out. The verification found that the Company accepts wastes other than those mentioned in the registration document issued. In relation to the infringement found, a prescription was given for the suspension of the acceptance of waste other than those mentioned in the registration document issued and an invitation was sent for the establishment of an act establishing an administrative infringement. The Director of RIEW Plovdiv will issue a criminal order to impose a penalty on the operator within the required period. A forced administrative measure will be taken to stop the activity until compliance with the issued registration document will be carried out by RIEW Plovdiv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u230	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Genov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u231	Thank you for your answer, dear Minister. I will keep track of what you promised, how the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection will do its job, because waste continues to enter unregulated. I understand from your reply that the five-year-old authorisation issued in 2010 expired long ago and currently none. I can only add that this dump or landfill, as you said, has no detailed planning. The Municipality of Rodopi declared a procedure for such, for 50 600 BGN, which was terminated due to the lack of interest of participants for it. So I don't know how long you have to wait for them to align, as you said. It is impossible to bring them into line with the requirements of the Waste Management Act. Let your authorities hurry to stop this activity at the site. I have such a question: who will be responsible for the reclamation of this dump in the future? You said there was a charge, the city made it. Is there such a plan, will there be, will it be recultivated, because this is not a small territory in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u232	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Minister Vassileva, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u233	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Be assured that you will not only be watching, but I will also be watching, because our undisputed priority is to carry out effective, preventive, ongoing and subsequent controls and the violation of legislation is sanctioned. As I mentioned, according to the results of the verification carried out, an act establishing an administrative infringement has been drawn up and a criminal order will be issued, a warning protocol has been served on the operator, and in this sense, if they do not comply with those guidelines of the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection, the activity will be suspended by an administrative force. As for the reconstruction of the terrain, as I mentioned, this is public property and in this sense the responsibility of the Municipality of Rodopi is to take care of the reconstruction of the terrain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u234	Thank you, dear Minister, for answering the last question and for all your participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva. First, he will answer a question from the National Representative Manol Genov on the readiness of the Executive Agency to carry out its activities in 2016. You have the floor, dear Mr. Genov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u235	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues! My question to Minister Taneva is about the readiness of the Executive Agency to carry out its activities in 2016. You took a long time with the answer, but perhaps it is significant that today is April 1st, and by all your instructions this is the day from which you start to watch not to fall hail over farmers in Bulgaria and their crops and crops. Dear Minister, farmers in my constituency Plovdiv are very concerned about the different information about the shortage of anti-urban missiles and the closure of certain missile sites in the region. Due to an unsatisfactory amount of rockets fired and ineffective anti-urban protection, hails have fallen over the past season, which have caused serious damage to agricultural production, especially in areas with vegetable crops. Conservation of agricultural production is not only of key importance for the country's gross domestic product and foreign trade balance, but also an important condition for the survival and development of agriculture and farmers. Madam Minister, my question is: what is the readiness of the Executive Agency to carry out its activities in order to effectively and fully protect agricultural areas during the 2016 season? What are the intentions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to develop this structure in the coming years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u236	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Minister Taneva, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u237	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Genov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to say in one sentence: no playgrounds will be closed. The Executive Agency will also implement through this activity anti-urban protection of the same size areas, of which last year, namely 17 million. Dka. With regard to the concept that we will present, not only will we not shut down sites, let alone reduce the volume of agricultural areas that will be protected. On the contrary, a concept is currently being prepared to increase the size of agricultural areas that will be subject to anti-city protection, the aim being to cover the entire agricultural territory, of course, with a completely different model of the functioning of the anti-city protection, and at the moment when there is such readiness, we will present this for a public debate of agricultural organisations. We've told them our concept. With regard to the data you mentioned about your constituency, I would like to present you with some statistics. The beaten areas in dekari for your region of Plovdiv are 284 for This appropriation is intended to cover commitments In view of the fact that 2014 was indeed in times more damage and hails than normal in the ordinary other years, the damage rate was 27,85. This is the percentage that is the average of the affected areas in other years when the corresponding protection of these areas was carried out. So nothing extraordinary in the area, beyond the usual and average statistics as the norm of effect of anti-city protection, has happened. With regard to the playgrounds, yes, they will not be closed, on the contrary, we expect in the short term to present a concept of increasing the areas of anti-urban protection. Only two sites will be closed, but moved, one being in Plovdiv region, I explicitly say. This is the launch site in the village of Krumovo due to proximity to the airport, and will be moved as its new location is already clear. The other one's in the Cave because she entered the industrial zone. There's also a procedure for her removal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u238	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Genov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u239	Dear Minister, thank you. I see your concern for the development of this structure in the future. I understand from your words that no missile site in Plovdiv territory will be closed or frozen. People's concerns about the sites in Gorno Belevo, Krumovo, Dobrostan and Deep Springs are unnecessary in this case. You said Krumovo would be moved. I guess those employees who work there will keep their jobs. They're not that many, because they're two now. Just see if you and security don't have any problems after the state's downside, because there's one requirement at night and during the day to be a different number of people on duty. If we really want to be a country that has, I would say, good hygiene in terms of preserving agricultural production from the hails that are forming over the country, let us not just hope for St. George's Day. Elijah sending us less hails should cover 70% of the country's territory and the agricultural areas that are being worked out. This is a dream provided that we currently have only 17 million coverage. Dka. That's what the data says. I hope that this concept, which you are yet to be presented to you, will be effective enough and that people's concerns will be less. In our intentions, we want to compete with vegetables and fruits with neighbouring countries, but many times the concerns of farmers are that when a hailstorm comes, it almost steals the harvest at 100%. Mechanisms and interactions with insurers should probably be sought in this case. 25 years ago, all the areas were insured. The entire allowance for this agency was from the so-called State Insurance Institute, but there's no point in talking about it. However, it can be sought to interact with insurers and people to be driven towards a larger insurance culture, I would say, for farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u240	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u241	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Genov, yes, I agree with your thesis. Indeed, we are also working in this direction that areas need to be increased on which there is anti-urban protection and for the development not only of vegetable production and permanent crops, but also of all other types of agricultural activities, in order to have greater efficiency, there must be effective protection. With regard to insurance, I just want to add that in the concept and model that we are proposing, this will also be part of this element. I have always refrained from imposing as an obligation, without any conditions, the use of a particular type of service, because the farmer is an entrepreneur. It should assess whether it should pay the cost of the insurance premium and receive protection, and that depends on the other party and how correct it is in such events. This is a process in market conditions, but also for the purpose of stimulating the Bulgarian state through the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the State Fund............................................................................................ I dare say that in recent years more farmers have benefited from it. In this sense, I think that we are fully aware of the need to use this kind of service.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u242	Thank you, dear Minister. We are moving on to a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova regarding the authorisation to place on the market two plant protection products, the active substances of which are neonicotinoids, iidacloprid and thiamethoxam, for limited and controlled use. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I will begin with a quote from Albert Einstein: if bees disappear from Earth, man lives no more than four years. It's a popular quote. I'm starting with him, Madam Minister, because I can't understand why we're allowed to use pesticides that kill bees, and not just bees, but harm all living things? If such a marketing authorisation for these two plant protection preparations, the active substances of which are neonicotinoids - imidacloprid and thiamethoxam, is a fact from the beginning of February 2016. Even their names are difficult to pronounce... I don't understand why this is happening when these neonicotinoid pesticides are generally prohibited from use in the territory of the European Union? I am also not convinced of your participation in this case because the ban on these pesticides is an initiative of your MEP, which was one of 86 MEPs who requested the full ban on the use of these neonicotinoid pesticides. It is true that European legislation allows exceptions to the ban, but only when there is an emergency situation in plant protection and a danger that cannot be overcome by other reasonable means. That's a quote from the directive. And I ask you, Minister: is there a danger in Bulgarian agriculture, in Bulgarian plant protection, which cannot be controlled by other reasonable means and it is necessary to allow the use of these two plant protection products that kill bees and other insects, and not only bees, but also harm people? Were you interested in the possible results and effects of such decisions on the population of bees and other pollinators, which are, by the way, quite public and all over the specialized literature, describe such effects? Have you consulted the stakeholders? On the basis of what facts and circumstances, with what reasons was this decision given? Did it overwhelm any manufacturer's lobby or importers of these preparations? Madam Minister, when are you going to cancel this decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u244	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u245	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gokov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In a report prepared by the Agricultural Economy Institute at the Agricultural Academy, an analysis was carried out on the impact of the partial ban on the use of neonicotinoid plant protection products in the decontamination of maize and sunflower. The analysis was carried out between 2013 and 2015, indicating the following negative results for sunflower and corn producers: reducing the average yield of sunflower and maize during this period; increasing the number and density of the different types of soil enemies in all regions of the country, especially throughout Northern Bulgaria; increasing the size of the fallen areas of these crops. Therefore, given the possibilities of agrotechnic methods and biology of gray corn trunk and wireworms, the decontaminating of seeds remains the only option for effective control of these pests in both crops. In this regard, and in order to avoid compromising crops crops and on the grounds of art. 53 of Regulation EC 1107 of 2009 where, by way of derogation and in special circumstances, a Member State may authorise, for a period of not more than 120 days, the placing on the market of plant protection products for limited and controlled use. And right now, the permission you're quoting is not for spraying. It is only for the treatment of seeds only for maize and sunflower, and such a measure is considered necessary due to a danger which cannot be controlled by other means. By order of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, two plant protection products were authorised, which allowed the controlled treatment only of seeds of maize and sunflower, not allowing the spraying of crops with these preparations. Yes, the orders also contain additional risk mitigation measures. The products are only used in the detailed areas of the country. I won't waste time saying them. As well as in relevant quantities that correspond to the planned areas for sowing only with maize and sunflower, together with the following restrictions: placing notification plates on the areas which have been planted with these seeds, planted with the treated seeds with both preparations; the seeds treated with these products shall not be planted where there is active grazing of bees; in the case of sowing, use a technique with appropriate equipment to allow and ensure the complete incorporation of the seeds into the soil and the minimization of the withdrawal of the product from the seed during sowing. The treatment of neonicotinoid seed products must be completely incorporated into the soil, the spread of treated seed in order to protect wild birds or wild mammals, the contamination of water with these plant protection products or their packaging, the treatment of seeds shall be carried out by qualified professionals.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u246	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. I have no doubt that you have any arguments for the use, but I do not want to and I have no way of telling you that I agree with this answer you are giving me. And the fact that it's only going to be used to decontaminate seeds doesn't comfort me, and it doesn't soothe people, because I read it somewhere, but I'm sure it does, because it says that when they decontaminate the seeds with them, they penetrate and stay in them. Once the seeds are planted, they pop up and grow and go into the pollen, these neonicotinoids, and when the bees collect nectar and pollen, they carry it to the hive, and there they make a cough, feed the small larvae, and come out damaged bees. Not to mention the bee products that people consume. You are now speaking there at the meeting with the beekeepers who protest before the Ministry, although there are a hundred people, believe that there are thousands of beekeepers in the country who are extremely worried about this fact and this permission. You tell them that to some working groups. The comforting thing is that this permission is only for 120 days. It's already a fact. By the time you set up a task force, it's gonna be four months, that's for sure. But let's make a deal in the future, as they say, with these people, and say to them, "We will not give such permissions anymore, because human life, the destruction of flora, of fauna, this thing has no price. The fact that farmers will lose some money from not decontaminated their seeds, but by losing a year, two years, science will probably come up with some harmless things and will be able to treat the seeds. Let us not allow ourselves things that are proven harmful, because if they were not proven harmful, your representative from your political power would not either boast that he is involved and even on his own initiative are banned these pesticides. Do you understand that somehow it sounds very? I wouldn't say funny, but somehow incomprehensible, about how some Bulgarians defend one thing, and other Bulgarians in Bulgaria do something different? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u248	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Minister Taneva, come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u249	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Gokov, we should not in any way serve each other when it comes to agriculture as a business, with a definition as a funny one. Losses from relevant crops of one type or another of agricultural production cannot in any way be defined as funny, against the backdrop that third year in a row revenues, due to the global fall in prices of most agricultural raw materials, fall and our farmers enter third year at falling prices. The state is obliged to use all the instruments that European legislation has given us in order to take measures to at least prevent the quantities of production being given. The same procedure was also used in Poland, Estonia, Finland, Hungary, Romania, Germany, Denmark, Latvia, Great Britain and Spain. We haven't created working groups yet. On the contrary, we have made meetings, including me, with the relevant organisations. Personally with the protesters, of course, I haven't met. They were 30 people, not 100, but it doesn't matter. Of course, those who have bees are worried about the derogation. We have done it according to science, according to the regulation, in a way that does no harm to this, and we have convinced them of it with everything we have said. On top of that, I think that, especially in a situation we are in, we should find the good, balanced solutions that do not damage any of the diverse spectrum of agricultural production.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u250	Thank you, dear Minister. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova about the realization of the produced potatoes by farmers. Dear Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I put the question to your attention because about a month ago, I found that in my electoral district, the Smolyan region, there is quite a lousy production of potato producers and in the media there was an address of the mayor of Elhovets that, unfortunately, the price reached from 15 to 25 cents there. For reference.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Along with this, other large settlements from 35 to 40 pennies. Why am I asking? I know that the sector related to vegetable production still needs strengthening in Bulgaria. I realize that in my constituency, potato production is a livelihood for the people who live there, and attitude, I hope you understand it, too, to the ground. These people are heroes that produce at the moment of the torn pieces. I also note that in these 25 years I have seen the emotions of farmers in the mountains, who have taken the land with great joy and now they are almost half of what was in the years. But my question is: what are the possibilities for the government, you as a minister, to create conditions at such difficult times for our producers to support them? I'll report something else, the cost of the Rhodope potato. It is no coincidence when you go to markets, it is much higher than Polish. I know you're going to say that the market regulates, but maybe we should take into account what is in the field, that there can be produced twice, that our cost for people living in the mountains is probably about 65 cents. I know you've got new programs right now. Over BGN 200. they've already received, yes, they've received them, but that doesn't make up for their losses. The last thing I know is that there are settlements where there are about 50 tons more unrealized, and my question is: is there a way to support them and what?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u252	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Minister Taneva, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u253	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Yankova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would reply that the conditions under which agriculture operates are conditions that we, as a country, have accepted, welcomed and must fight, including obtaining sufficient knowledge and not just money from our farmers, so that they can unite and operate with appropriate administrative management, which would bring them direct access to the markets, a single and large amount of supply of goods, so that the final price that the consumer pays, the majority of it goes to the farmer and not to the intermediaries. This is the way we have to go. You yourself said this year, yes, the reassignment payments have already been paid. For the first time, vegetable producers, including potato producers, received such help. I've bothered to consider different options. Potato manufacturers received from 285 to 385 BGN. on a decare according to the area in which they produce. Knowing that you are from the Smolyan Election Region, with all possible other payments that can be paid, we are talking about support of BGN 385. on a decare. From then on, there is no way to talk and we should not signal farmers that the state should seek tools to compensate for their costs up to the cost through subsidies. The implementation of subsidies is a European solution for the functioning of agriculture and we are implementing it by using as a member in the new programming period to use all the opportunities that would allow us to direct funds to underfunded sectors such as vegetables, fruit and animals, and they have already been paid for the first year. I keep saying that in practice, the issue and the subject on which we can look for a solution, this is also the organisation of producer organisations. In our mandate at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food we have created a special structure for this and I can say that we have started from 14 producer organisations. Currently there are 25 producer organisations that aim at what I explained just now to associate, to be able to reach directly on the market so that most of the cost of production comes to them. We cannot in any way make national restrictions for any product. And with regard to the prices of other products, yes, for the potatoes is in this case, but this is also true for others, we also have to respect what competitiveness we can get, and this decision is not only in subsidies. At the moment, under the new programming period, this is the maximum budget that can be allocated for fruit and vegetables, in this case for vegetables. However, in these 25 producer organisations, unfortunately, so far none of them are in the field of potato production.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u254	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mrs. Yankova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u255	Dear Minister, I understand and welcome, even from the stand I am turning around. In parallel with that, I made some calculations. I've talked to a lot of people, and I'm sure you're talking all the time, too, potato producers, because you see, after the tobacco restriction, if we limit the potato production, we'll go to exotic proposals in the region for which specialization is required. That means letting the mountain become just a park in general. And that's why I'm talking with this care that they're necessary, you said about the programming period, which worried me. Let them associate, but at the moment, if we assume that there is an average of 40 pennies there is some kind of market and there is no market, the trader goes to 80, giving them to the market, and respectively from BGN 1.05. up to BGN 1,20, three times. I understand that you are struggling, calling them to associate, but I realize that what little remains as a laborable population in the region, which is concerned, they are 385 BGN. they didn't get a little over 200 leva. got a plus for the ground. Their idea is, and you adopted a program for Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes and Sakar. At this difficult time, if we have to strengthen these people, they have to feel the state. Left alone on the market and only with the notification... We need some regulation that, if necessary, provoke it, you initiate it. It is not scary if the state does not withdraw so much from the market to enter and support its own producers. That's why I asked because I'm a MP and I feel people unprotected. You take care of it. You're gonna have to step in a little bit more. Then they will appreciate that the state has it, that it is close to them and can produce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u256	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u257	Dear Mrs. Yankova, you have BGN 385. There are probably sufficient beneficiaries in your area of vegetable production due to the accumulation of the following rates: a scheme of tied support for vegetables, green direct payments, rates of compensatory payments in mountain areas up to 50 hectares, disadvantaged areas up to 50 hectares. So far, the State aid they are using amounts to BGN 85. the decare to purchase currently authorised plant protection products. There's four of them. That is, if your producer takes advantage of all the opportunities that the State has given for these areas, this is the rate of support. This year she's in a lot bigger than the one she was last year, last year or a few years ago. In terms of decreasing production. I can say figures, only I don't know if I should be asked this question, what kind of production are we in 1989, what we are in 2006 before accession and what happens in 2015, the second year of the new programming period. Whether it will have an effect on the measures and how direct payments are managed in the new programming period that we have proposed and implemented, we will see it after at least three years of implementation. What I can say from the initial data with only one year difference, which was from the implementation in most traditional productions in fruits, vegetables and animals, we have a slight increase. I suppose this is because of the hope and expectation of farmers who are engaged in this type of activity that they can generate income, which in a normal market situation satisfies them. Once again, I would like to say that we should not only talk about funds, but we should also talk about implementing instruments and actions that lead to being more competitive in the market.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-01.u258	Thank you, dear Minister. That was the last question for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. I also thank all my colleagues, the administration that is working today, the operators of the Bulgarian National Television and the viewers, who had an interest from 9.00 p.m. to monitor parliamentary control until now. The time for him is over. The next plenary session is on Wednesday, 6 April, at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
