ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. One message. Honourable Members of the National Assembly in the performance of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act in the National Assembly received reports on the implementation of the programming budgets for the half-year of 2016 of the Council of Ministers, of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and of the Ministry of Economy. By my letter, the reports were submitted to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio Standing Committees. The same are available to the MPs at the Library of Parliament. We continue with the debates on item four of our weekly programme: THE BENEFICIARY OF THE COMMISSION'S CONVERSATION FOR THE DISCLOSURE OF THE DOCUMENTS AND FOR THE STATEMENT OF THE PRESENTITY OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY TO STATE SECURITY AND THE INNOVATION SERVICES OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S ARMY, IMPORTER: MAINTENANCE TO STATE SECURITY AND THE DEFINITION OF THE BULGARIAN ARMY AND THE DISCLOSURE OF THE LEGATION AND DISCLOSURE OF THE DOCUMENTS AND THE STATEMENT OF THE PRESENTITY OF BULGARIAN BENEFICIARY TO STATE SECURITY AND THE BENEFICIARY OF THE BULGARIAN ARMY, THE INVOIDENTS: METHODS AND ADVANTAGE OF THE BULGARIAN ADVANTAGES AND MARTIN BIRITROV; AND THE LAW PROFECTION OF THE ARATION OF THE ARIGIBILITY OF THE NUTURES AND THE BENEFICITION OF THE BENEFIED. There are applied MPs for a statement on the continuation of the debate from yesterday. This is Mr. Belemezov and Mr. Metodi Andreev. To recall the time available to the parliamentary groups after yesterday's debate: GERB has 24 minutes and 41 seconds; BSP The word for speech is Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! We at the ABB believe that the activity resulting from the so-called....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The law does not regulate important public relations and by its nature and functionality is absolutely harmful and unnecessary. As such, the Law should be repealed. This is an extremely late but still positive step. It is for this reason that one of the three so proposed bills, namely that of Mr. Velizar Enchev, will be supported by our parliamentary group. Here are some of the reasons for our decision. From the very beginning, the File Act created conditions for discrimination and restriction of civil rights. Certain Bulgarian citizens have been violated their access to leading public positions and their career development has been deliberately hindered, and in particular their right to work. Apropo, this is duly written in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The principle of collective responsibility was introduced without any examination of the activities of each individual. No specific assessment was carried out on the legality or illegality of their actions or omissions. It should also be noted the extremely negative impact of this Law on the national security of the country, its specialized services and diplomacy. The Law on Files identified the intelligence activity in defence of the Bulgarian state with the snitching and political repression. After all, the Bulgarian public did not understand and remained poorly informed who were practically snitches and who worked for the benefit of the state. Everyone was branded under a common denominator. However, we do not have enough reason to welcome and support the other two bills, as they contain a number of imperfections. For example, the draft of Atanas Merdjanov lacks an explicit anti-lustration provision because it is the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria that clearly determines that belonging in the past to totalitarian secret services cannot be a basis for limiting constitutional rights, I mean: ban on taking a particular position or formulating a criterion for assessing professional qualities and skills. And second, which concludes my speech, the proposal to create a new body, the Institute for National Memory, does not overcome, stress, does not overcome the shortcomings of the Commission on Files, not to mention that national memory should not be limited to State Security cases only. Such an institution would again cost the state dearly and divide society. We at the ABB believe that this activity could be much more effectively concentrated and structured, for example, at the Institute of History at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from ABB and from the National Representative Velizar Enchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u3	Any lines to Mr. Belemezov? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! Yesterday, I was not going to speak, as we have provided enough information about our opinion on this matter with the Bill that we have proposed with my colleagues. But as always, when it comes to this issue, in this Chamber, many untruths, manipulations have been expressed, suggesting that hardly what we are doing is anti-state, anti-national, endangering national security, and for this reason I decided to make today's speech. This isn't about making up facts and circumstances. We are 26 years after that momentous day when the Bulgarian Communist Party had an internal party coup and democratic processes were unblocked in Bulgaria. There are already enough records, historical evidence of what was actually the security system of the People's Republic of Bulgaria and whether there was any national significance and national self-esteem in the people who were part of this system. This is a very serious historical question, and I believe that enough historians on one side and on the other, with serious developments, have answered this question. Specifically about the opposition's proposed bills. The BSP question. Notice, BSP is pretending to be a party that realizes that this process cannot be interrupted. This is a very important moment in what they are showing at the moment as political behaviour. They don't want the Law repealed. They want the removal of the sting of the law, namely the Law to continue to act, in another form, in a softer form, but the public cannot really learn what are the people for whom checks are being made. In their Law, it is clearly written that the verification is communicated to the person who ordered it, the institution, or the party, or the government organization, and is also communicated to the person concerned. And nobody else's! I mean, it's paid for. However, BSP's attempt not to completely reject this process is worthy of respect and praise. However, I will recall an extraordinary thought of Chudomir. He says: "Repentance, repentance of hypocrites is also hypocrisy. Dear gentlemen of the BSP, if you do realize that this process cannot be stopped, do not attempt to discourage it. Because really remorse of hypocrites is continuing hypocrisy. In other words, what I think BSP gives as a signal is that it suffers from the diagnosis.. the doctors will understand it................................................................................... That's the exact definition: a chronic dissociative property disorder. It is characterized by the existence of two identities independent of each other. On the one hand, the BSP is showing itself as a democratic transition party, which is aware of the need for this process to be continued, on the other hand, however, the other identity, the one that is rooted in its past, from which it failed and found no strength to break away, and is pushing it towards that past, and strives to make this whole process meaningless. Not for nothing Schopenhauer says a very interesting thought: each truth has three levels of development. The first is the ridicule. That was when we were doing the Law of the Far 1998. Then we were ridiculed, made for two money in the media. Then the fierce resistance began when the Law began to act. This is the second phase of the story of a truth. The fierce resistance coincided with the rule of Simeon Saxe-Coburg. The commission was then executed and the law was closed. It's been a while. Those who overturned the law, who overturned the law, fate punished them. You humiliated them! You politically humiliated them! All of them, together with the BSP, the NDSV and the DPS, had to adopt a new law, which, notice, was much more radical than the one we adopted in the Thirty-eightth National Assembly. This is the time when they accepted the third phase of the truth that it is objective and cannot be cancelled. That's just classic Schopenhauer. This is the political Schopenhauer we saw in Bulgaria. And these people at the moment, instead of being ashamed, instead of bowing their heads, continue in the conditions of the centre-right government to insist on their position. However, this position should be said that thanks to the fact that in two terms GERB, as a member of the European People's Party, did not change and did not cancel its principle policy on this issue. And now, as part of GERB's parliamentary group, relying, of course, on the other Some of them contribute to the closure of this Law. [[Heckling]] Yes, and the patriots I invite. I believe that today we must show that Bulgaria is not the Bulgaria that the left part of the hall thinks about. Bulgaria is an irreversible part of Europe, a loyal and accurate ally of NATO. I will now proceed to the specific things relating to this legislation. Yesterday it was suggested that, you see, the members or people connected to the former totalitarian services were people who worked for the national interest and for Bulgaria. I'm not gonna say anything. I will mention several documents, I stress, documents that each of you can read in an original if you wish. It will become clear that this is not really a process that started by accident, these are not tales of Metodi Andreev, Anton Todorov or anyone else who speaks against this system. These are objective historical realities. It all began on December 4, 1963. Then the Plenum of the BCP was discussed first point, notice what was discussed. Discussion of questions about the further close approximation and perspective for the merger of the National Assembly with the Soviet Union... 4 December 1963! Next step - February 1964 Delegation led by the then comrades Todor Zhivkov, Stanko Todorov, Ivan Mihaylov, went to Moscow to then Secretary General Khrushchev and formally proposed the decision of this plenary to be adopted. Notice what Khrushchev says, this is all documented, there are shorthands, there are historical evidences. Khrushchev says he is pleasantly surprised and impressed. His words are: "For now I do not advise you, because the Soviet Union Plan Committee will align you with consumption in the Soviet Union. That is, he says to them: "Company, don't come to us, because we are lower in consumption you will become part of our country. He tells them this. Listen now to what Khrushchev says to them: However, it is more important for the merger to start through the merger of the KGB services and staff. And orders then the KGB chief Andropov: to develop a concrete integration plan based on full compliance with the KGB of the Soviet Union. Note what Comrade Todor Zhivkov reported years later when Andropov came to Bulgaria. Here we are, the Ministry of Interior, the Department of Internal Affairs, and so on, Information No 724 on the discussions held with the KGB delegation in charge of Comrade Yuri Andropov. See, what he says:.. comrade Todor Zhivkov wished new successes in the joint work of our DHS bodies with the KGB bodies. Comrade Zhivkov assured Comrade Andropov that the State Security of the People's Republic of Bulgaria is a subsidiary of the KGB of the Soviet Union. [[Sighs: "Bravo! ", lines.]] That's right! That's right. Meanwhile, a little later Dimitar Stoyanov admits that Bulgarian DS is an organic part of the KGB of the Soviet Union. So much for the independence of the Bulgarian special services during communism from the empire of evil, as the great Reagan calls it. I claim that the Bulgarian special services were colonial in nature and not Bulgarian in essence, such as the transmission between the mytropolis and the colony was the then communist nomenclature. Then I will introduce you to some criteria as to how great scouts have been selected. I address my fellow patriots. I know that in this matter they have their own opinions, which I deeply respect. However, I will read you an archive unit, Fund No 23, inventory 01288, archive unit 760. [[Replying and shouting, raging.]] Notice, in the most serious intelligence, it is now such a "Military Intelligence," what were the criteria. I won't say another word! I'll tell you what the criteria were according to the one that was once, a secret document. The criteria I read verbatim, what are those preliminary personal qualities that we should bear in mind when selecting candidates. This is in connection with a report to the then General-Colonel Zikulov. Now listen very carefully to the criteria by which the great scouts of the communist state have been selected. [[Radio.]] First, social origin and idea-political conviction. First! Social origins and ideal political conviction! Notice what this includes: what kind of family does the candidate come from, what kind of environment he grew up in and was raised...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u5	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u6	This document in defence of which thesis is yours, Mr. Andreev? Just to recall, the document you are reading, in defence of which thesis of your statement is?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u7	In defence of the thesis, I made it very clear, in defence of the thesis that State Security and the services of the People's Republic of Bulgaria were not national services for the protection of national security. Yesterday, everyone who spoke before me, that's exactly what they said. I want with documents and facts to disprove them so that you can see that indeed the Law that we are now discussing, I mean, mine and Peter Slavov, is extremely important for democratic Bulgaria. I'm moving on... [[(Radio.) (Laughter)]] "Party ownership of the applicant..." [[Noise and lines.]] Listen! Partition of the candidate and his parents. His Marxist-Lennanian worldview was formed? " After that, "Idea's conviction and devotion to the party's and the people's work. And listen, gentlemen, fellow MPs, listen! Only in the sixth place in these criteria: "Patriotic education and the existence of a sense of national pride and dignity." I repeat, sixth in the criteria!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u8	This is the last thing to fellow patriots because I understand that you're addressing them...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u9	Yeah. In sixth place, I repeat, in the document...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u10	...but the parliamentary tribune should be addressed to all MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u11	"Patriotic education and the existence of a developed sense of national pride and dignity. " That is why I say that in this way, as military scouts have been selected, we cannot talk about an actual national responsibility and protection of the patriotic beginning of their activities. Now, of course, as a result of this selection that I have shown you here, there is no way that people can be chosen to feel the state as their own. They know they serve another country. So I'm going to read you a personal case. I won't tell who this personal case belongs to.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u12	Are you sure it's not classified?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u13	It's not classified.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u14	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u15	I'm going to read you a private personnel case. And so that I don't insult the people in the hall, however, to see the great scouts who defend this story here, that they were hardly the greatest, to tell you that this personal chamber work was not written by me, it was not written by Anton Todorov, it was written by someone else, it was written by the chiefs of this man. I'm going to use his operational name. [[Noise and lines.]] Now look what it says! A testimonial, notice, for a period from October 16, 1984 to 1989. See what it says about an operative Radulov: he does not show the necessary degree of self-criticism and self-discipline. He doesn't put enough effort into achieving consistency between words and deeds. He doesn't take it seriously. He's not serious about socialist property and the use of financial resources. After that, the head of the department's opinion. It says, "I consider the President's considerations valid, which is why I propose the Act. Radulov should return to the People's Republic of Bulgaria as soon as possible and be punished disciplinaryly here. Such consummative moods have expressed several times before. Then notice, then continue to perform the informational tasks. The assessment is: "The work of the O.R. the information work shall be evaluated as a result of the evaluation. That's the highest score, by the way. On the implementation of the organizational tasks: The work of the O.R. on the implementation of the organizational tasks is assessed as a weak person. "The person working in a European country is this o.k.! Now, listen up, finally! Moral activity, moral and ethical characteristics and discipline. Listen now to the magnificent definition of the boss: In the style and method of the work of the Act. There is insufficient personal organisation and thoroughness. It needs immediate and permanent control. He cannot be trusted for his own work, he cannot be free from the effort to cover up with words the lack of action aimed at achieving positive results. It gives insufficient importance to the sense of duty and personal responsibility. Sixth, puts personal interests above the employees.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u16	Is there much more of this file, Mr. Andreev? [[(Laughter) Awesome.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u17	I've got 24 minutes... [[Laughter]] Look, it's the type of guy on the O.R. Radulov, who was our scout in a European country. I'm not saying the name, not that it's classified, I don't want to insult the room. Now, on the other hand, who are snitches? Everyone says, "Let's separate the snitches, let's leave the scouts." We saw the scouts being elected...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u18	This is not the subject of the debate, Mr. Andreev. The debate is on three specific bills. We must decide to have this Law, to close it or to make an archive on Merdjanov's proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u19	Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u20	... In this regard, we don't make a characteristic of agents, informants and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u21	Madam President, in the basis of the motives of the BSP and Mr. Enchev it is precisely that these people were unduly referred to during the transition, that through them we issue our classified information and put pressure on our national security. I prove to you with facts and documents that these motives, of their bills, are unfounded. Therefore, our Bill is absolutely accurate and timely. So let me finish my speech. I've got 24 minutes. [[(Radio.) Laughter. Noise and lines.)]] So much for how military scouts were chosen, what the criteria were. We saw a type of average statistic military scout. Now we're going to see a type of average statistical officer from the First General Administration of DHS. Because, you see, these are the good ones, and the snitches are the other ones. Notice, one reference to the study of a candidate through operational contact. She's also declassified. Note now, when an operative who is tasked with assessing the candidate in question whether he is qualified to be an officer of the First General Management of the DS, what tasks they place on him. Now listen very well! In the process of my mutual contacts, I placed a task on the candidate, whom he fulfilled in a temporary and willing manner. [[Loud noise and lines.]] All right, listen up. The same gave written information on some of the tasks, namely information about his wife's ongoing talks with English specialists, which, at the discretion of Department 14, DSG is of interest a report on the topic: The Macedonian issue in U.S. politics between the two world wars, information about Ethiopian citizens, aspirants at AONSU, and, note, information about his fellow students. Well, I'd like to ask: what's the difference between a DHS scout when he was accepted by such criteria?! What's the difference between him and the snitch?! I'd like to ask you in the Chamber: what's the difference? All this proves one thing that we must actually deepen this process, we must reject today the opposition's demands. As for ABB's demands, I understand them. They're all very nice to me there. I always said there are a lot of decent people. The problem is their leaders. What they do is not because they think so, but because their leaders are. Because it's no secret that their vice president was the first to abuse the State Security archive when there was no law. Do you remember when Minister of Interior was Rumen Petkov? Do you remember the scandal about the illegally exported material from the DHS archives for journalists?! Do you remember? He unplugged Pandora's box. Him! And not in vain then he's a very important character from many criminal records. Let's talk about the leader, about Agent Gocze. How many times did he go out into the public domain and explain how he wasn't an agent, how it wasn't true, and finally admitted it was. You see, this relationship is very strong, this relationship obliges you for life! And because that's... that's what some BSP colleagues said, they're totally right. The archive, as a matter of fact, was released long before the order of the late gene came out. Semerdzhiev to a closed town near Moscow, his name is Ivanovo-Woznesensk. Indeed, the Metropolitan has a huge impact on a huge part of Bulgarian citizens. Unfortunately, for some of them, the documents are not in our archive. One part of them was developed in a special event called "Renaissance" and for them there are no documents in the Bulgarian archive. But as much as there is. The truth is as we have it. And it's better to have the little truth than to let go of the big addiction. By the way, in the history of our democratic transition, everything is connected by starting from the time of the goons, from the time of the insurgents, from the time of the draining of the banks, so to this day, with all the scandals. Not just anyone, Boyko Borisov said that in each deal there is a quote from him, because it is from his early years as Secretary General that each deal has an ex or present cop. This is the sad truth, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs! I therefore call on us to be uncompromising with regard to today's laws, to uphold my Law and to categorically reject the laws of the opposition. It is the only way to show that we are indeed part of a centre-right coalition that does not side with the values of a united Europe and the European People's Party. Dependencies must be interrupted. We don't force this thing to happen the way it's being said. In general, lustration does not mean repression, lustration means an informed choice of the one who chooses. To know the person I choose, what he is, that this man is free from his past, as long as he, of course, wants to be free of him. Because many of these people swore allegiance to the Bulgarian Communist Party and were its faithful members and followers. On the other hand, the BSP Bill, I must tell you that there is also an essential weakness. It is titled, led in the media and in space comes out as: Bill for the Institute of National Memory. It has nothing to do with the truth, because a National Memory Institute requires that you have realized your own guilt, that you have made your own self-esteem, that you are willing to admit your guilt to pointing the blame at others. A national memory, without learning communism in the history books there can't be! And all such institutions in Europe are related to this particular study of communism's crimes during the relevant years. So once again, I call on you to be Democrats, and today, firmly reject these bills and vote for our bill. [[Applause on the right.]] And those who felt affected, if they had an officer's honor, should go out and recognize what I read. [[(Radio.) Laughter. Noise and lines.)]] Because they're here in the hall! [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u22	Any lines to Mr. Andreev? There are no lines. Procedure, Mr. Ermenkov. You have two procedures?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u23	One is a personal explanation, and the other is in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u24	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u25	Procedure 1 - Personal explanation. This is about me. [[(Sighs:..aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa]] What I would like to say to you is that what the previous speaker who spoke before me has done is proof of why this Commission should be closed. Because separate sides are drawn that have nothing in common, a logical link to the overall career of individual employees. You can find a negative moment in any career and there to [[People's Representative Metodi Andreev puts written materials on the stenography table]] ... Madam President, may I have order in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u26	Mr. Andreev, I didn't give you the opportunity to correspond and contact the talking Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u27	Separate sides are drawn, which even then have no explanation as to why in such readings this same operative served until 1992 without punishment. Probably because what was written was there as well. But this is different. Once again, I would like to say that I take it as a personal explanation to prove why this Commission must be closed down in order not to abuse information that is incomplete, inaccurate and distorted. And now, in the manner of conduct, Madam President, if I may.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u28	The second procedure is another two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u29	I would like to ask you when some of the speakers here get homesick for the fact that they either missed the history lessons of the Bulgarian Communist Party, or today they want to prove that they were the excellent ones in this thing and demonstrate it to us from the stand of the National Assembly, to stop them in time. Because if they have the great desire to refresh this course, the Bulgarian Socialist Party is available, we will also give them methodical help so that they can refresh their knowledge of BCP history. In this regard, I ask you very much, in such cases, that we vote and allow a specialist from the Military Hospital to be present in the Chamber because we may have fatal cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u30	Any other MPs? Mr. Ivan Ivanov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u31	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, the discussion that has spread has provoked me to take the floor. First for colleagues: to know that dissociative personality disorders are characteristic of certain individuals, not groups of individuals, i.e. parts of the room. So maybe someone sees a similar diagnosis in themselves. As a matter of fact, those who speak here have created a very serious comfort for people who are nostalgic for a past time because for more than 27 years there have been no speeches from Comrade Todor Zhivkov. We had the opportunity to hear them and create some comfort to go back to the past. However, this should be associated with a weak historical knowledge of the negotiators should also be ignored by the Chamber and we should focus on the content of the legislation that is being proposed. The legislation we are proposing is precisely with the aim of addressing similar problems that have been insulted by the MPs and the public in recent days. Speaking of hypocrisy, perhaps we should look at the right-hand side of the Chamber, because the last years are very hard and successful in the ranks of the right-wing parties are imposed precisely people who are with files and personnel, and with cards, Mr. Metodiev knows them very well, they are imposed and are elected, including for MPs, for mayors and so on. So hypocrisy should rather look for it to the right. BSP has its policy regarding the files, regarding the former services of the People's Republic of Bulgaria, which is consistent. Yes, Mr. Methodiev, you'll have a chance if you want to make a line for me. [[Reply: "Andreev! "]] Yes, Mr. Metodi Andreev. He's not listening to me. The emotions he expresses with his facial parts are talking about something else, of course. So the kind of legislation that we propose is in the order of things. The Law itself on Files, which we do not deny was adopted during the Triple Coalition, has exhausted its functions. The bad news is that in recent times this Law has been used precisely to undermine the foundations of Bulgarian national security. What do I mean? In recent days, we voted precisely on a proposal from Mr. Andreev and a company of laws which introduce lustration and breaking of services in Bulgaria. What do I mean? In the Law on classified information we introduced additional criteria to check the employees of the Bulgarian services and applicants for work and for access to classified information, but for belonging to the services. Here is the time to specify that there is also a criterion for reliability, i.e. in this complex environment where we are at the moment and when the prime minister has to walk and not want to, of course, explain why he is going to Turkey to save the situation, we are trying to break the foundations of this national security. And that is precisely why this Law must be abolished and it must pass into, as we have called it, the Historical Memory Institute. Every Bulgarian citizen should know, without using it in any way to undermine prestige or blackmail, or in any other way, what was done here by the stands to read files, and each one of them to have the opportunity to do so, to interrupt the operation of this Law. I also approve of Mr. Enchev's law because the option which he proposes to close down this Commission at all and it to cease to exist is also an option. However, we must not forget what has happened over the years, and it must be used for historical purposes. Because personally, as a historian, I believe that history should not be forgotten in any way, but it should be interpreted in the right way and not through the personal prism of certain individuals who really cannot make any assessment of what this dissociative disorder is, of course, personal. So, honourable Members, we can make an assessment of what has been set out here for tens of minutes, without any connectivity in the logic of what one of our fellow Members wanted to convince us, but to focus on what will be the consequences of adopting such a bill. The consequences are precisely the presentation and conclusion of a long saga, which is trying to divide Bulgarian society for years. I think whoever had the opportunity and the desire over the years did this thing. He went, he checked, he saw, and it became clear. The attempts to explain to us that there is no difference between those who have done their duties conscientiously and those who have been used as an agent... On the contrary, there is a difference and I can explain very thoroughly and very correctly [[GERB noise]] And from a historical point of view, as a professional, as a man who defended a PhD thesis on history. But this thing is not done here from the stands, and if you want, we can challenge in a discussion in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u32	Would you like an extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u33	Yeah, extend the time. We're entitled to a time extension. So from now on, the most correct and correct thing is this process, which we are trying to deepen today with certain bills to be interrupted, this Commission to cease to exist, to go into the archives and to be used entirely only for the purposes of history and for the training of Bulgarian students and students. So I call on fellow Members to really understand the content of what is proposed, but not to deviate from different these and conspiracy theories that entertained the audience here. Of course, again, to say to no one, at least in our section, was a pleasure to hear forgotten speeches more than 20 years unheard of in this room, quoted by a man from the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u34	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Korman Ismailov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u35	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll try to be as brief as possible. Why does the current Law need to be further developed, upgraded, made much more operational, and what has been produced and learned so far must be much more openly disclosed, even if it enters the historical annals and textbooks, and why should the other laws of the opposition not be taken into account and should be stopped here during this vote? I will go through my personal history, which I think is the history of many Bulgarian citizens, some of whom are here and others are not. I will start from there that I have long believed in many myths and legends and these files, which in time I have been able to read and see, have turned my thinking and understanding of our close history and politics very seriously. I was very interested in history and the politicians that were in the party that I was a member of and from which I was expelled. One of the reasons I was expelled was precisely those altered beliefs and understandings based on historical facts based on the documents. For me, it's perfectly understandable why the DPS colleagues here are only three or four, should be all of them. My hair creeps when I understand over the years how many covert agents I'm talking about open snitches who have worked against Bulgarian citizens with Turkish-ethnic self-consciousness over the years, have been MPs and have subsequently presented themselves as Democrats in the new conditions. Yeah, for me, one of the biggest problems is that there was no lustration. Because if there were lustration on the basis of these documents, different people would get their different punishments and then clearly those who really served the homeland would be separated, and there are those among those who have not blackened human destinies. So I call on honourable colleagues and colleagues from the DPS, think about it! Look at the files. I believe that you will think and look at yourself differently and then, in a different way, you will make decisions that are imposed on you by people for whom you will understand that they have no dignity to stand here, in these ranks and to be your colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u36	Any lines to Mr. Ismailov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I put to the first vote a Bill on the closing of the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army with importer Velizar Enchev. Vote 134 MPs: 36, against 85, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army with importers Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. Vote 138 MPs: 100 against 35, abstention 3. The bill was passed in the first vote. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] I put to the first vote a bill on the archive of the documents of State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army with importers Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. They voted 132 MPs: for 28, against 83, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Last item in the legislative part of our Programme for this week: LEGISLATION LAW FOR THE RATIFICEMENT OF THE MINAM ABOUT LIVES. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Reports of the Committee on Environment and Water, of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, of the Committee on Legal Affairs have been received. There are no reports from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Health. We are listening to the report from the Committee on Environment and Water. Mr. Grudev will brief us on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u37	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, No 602-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2016. At its regular meeting on 21 July 2016, the Environment and Water Commission examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, No 602-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2016. The meeting by the Ministry of Environment and Water was attended by: Ivelina Vassileva Director of the Privatative Activity, Hristina Filipova, Chief Expert in the same Directorate, as Ivaylo Petkov, Secretary-General. Representatives of the Movement were also present: Petyo Hadzhiev and Marin Grigorov. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Minister Ivelina Vassileva. The main objective of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, signed by Bulgaria on 10 October 2013 at a conference of ministers of powers in Japan, is to ensure the protection of human health and the environment from emissions resulting from human activity and the release of mercury and its compounds. Mercury is a global problem due to its long-distance air transfer, a sustainable presence in the environment as a result of an endogenous activity, the ability to bioaccumulate ecosystems and, of course, its significant negative impact on human health and the environment. The Convention regulates the entire life cycle of mercury in cooperation and coordination with existing conventions and agreements on hazardous chemicals and waste. It restricts the primary production of mercury and trade therein, prohibits the production and marketing of mercury added products and prohibits or places conditions for use in mercury production processes. The Convention provides for measures to use the best available techniques to reduce mercury emissions in manual and small-scale gold mining and industrial activities, also requiring the conservation and management of mercury waste to be carried out in an environmentally sound manner. The Convention ensures a high level of protection of human health and the environment against the release and emissions of mercury and its compounds globally. The Convention included in the EU priorities will enter into force 90 days after deposit of ratification documents from 50 countries and regional organisations. A competent authority for the implementation of the Convention shall be the Ministry of Environment and Water, with the exception of measures for the protection of human health, of the competence of the Minister of Health and measures relating to pesticides, where the competence of the Minister of Agriculture and Food is. Much of the provisions of the Convention are covered by existing national and European legislation, and the uncovered obligations of the Convention are integrated into a draft new Mercury Regulation tabled by a proposal from the European Commission as part of the Convention ratification package. The ratification of the Convention will not have a direct and/or indirect impact on the state budget, resulting in an increase in the administrative burden for the competent authorities in its future implementation. After the opening of the debate they took: the People's Representative Chavdar Georgiev on the conditions and implementation of the Convention and the new Regulation of the European Commission and the People's Representative Borislav Velikov on information related to the implementation of the Convention and the availability of data on mercury contaminated terrains. The questions asked were answered in detail by Mrs Luleva. On the basis of the discussion held and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Environment and Water with 14 votes in favour of the Council of Ministers, No 602-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2016, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, No 602-02-27.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u38	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. No report has been submitted to the Committee on Health. The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food follows. The report will introduce us to the President of the Commission, the national representative Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, No 602-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2016. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 31 August 2016, discussing a bill for ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, No 602-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2016. In the work of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Environment and Water: Boyko Malinov The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Malinov. The main objective of the Minamata Convention on Mercury is to ensure the protection of human health and the environment against emissions of endogenous origin and the release of mercury and mercury compounds. The Convention lays down provisions regulating the entire life cycle of mercury. Within the competence of the Committee on Agriculture and Food are the measures under art. 4 "Further products' which regulate the prohibition of production, import and export of a wide range of mercury-added products, including pesticides. As an alternative to these measures, a Party may indicate that it will apply different measures or strategies to those products, but only under the conditions laid down in the Convention. For pesticides, the ban shall enter into force 2020. The competent authority for the implementation of the Convention shall be the Ministry of Environment and Water, with the exception of measures relating to the protection of human health, which fall within the competence of the Minister of Health and the measures under art. 4 "Products with added mercury' related to the restriction of pesticides that fall within the competence of the Minister for Agriculture and Food. The ratification of the Convention will have no impact on the state budget, as the necessary funds will be provided within the approved budgets of the competent authorities for its implementation. In conclusion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 16 votes for the Ministry of Agriculture, No 602 02 27, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2016.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Next is a report by the Committee on Legal Affairs, which will introduce you to its President......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill for ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, No 602-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2016. At its meeting on 31 August 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, No 602-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mr. Boyko Malinov The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Boyko Malinov. The ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury aims at protecting human health and the environment from the effects of toxic metal. The implementation of the Convention will ensure the gradual reduction and suspension of the use of certain mercury products and processes, the promotion of scientific developments of wireless alternatives, as well as the prohibition of exports of certain mercury-added products. The Convention lays down provisions for the limitation of mercury emissions to the atmosphere and the release of toxic metal and its compounds into water and soil. Its environmentally friendly storage is regulated as well as the management of mercury waste and the restoration of contaminated terrains. A competent authority for the implementation of the Convention shall be the Ministry of Environment and Water, with the exception of measures relating to the protection of human health which fall within the competence of the Minister of Health and measures relating to the restriction of pesticides falling within the competence of the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The ratification of the Convention will not have a direct and/or indirect impact on the state budget. The entry into force of the Convention promotes the competitiveness of the European Union industry and expects the creation of a market for the EU's environmental industry. After the vote was taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 602-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2016, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, No 602-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. We also have no report submitted by the Foreign Policy Committee. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, No 602-02-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2015. Please vote. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The bill was unanimously adopted in the first vote. Here you are, Mr. Grudev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Committee on Environment and Water proposes to be adopted in the second vote the following Law...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u44	Make a proposal for admission to a second vote. Then you will present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u45	A procedural proposal for admission to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u46	Please vote on the proposal for admission to a second vote on the bill. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Now you can present the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Environment and Water, proposes to be adopted in the second vote as follows: THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury A single member. Ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, signed on 10 October 2013 in Kumamoto, Japan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u48	Are there any speeches? I won't. I hereby put to the vote your proposed Second Voting Act. Please vote. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The law has been unanimously adopted in a second vote. That concludes our parliamentary activities. At 11:00 we continue with Parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u49	Honourable Members of Parliament, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. For the period from 29 July to 1 September 2016, no new requests were received. Written answers to service: - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a request from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education Meglena Kuneva to a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on two issues by the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from Metodi Andreev, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the MPs Lilkov, Dimitrov, Slavov and Andreev; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov and Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to two questions from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - by the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question by Willy Lilkov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to five questions from the MPs Radan Kanev and Willi Lilkov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - from the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question by Nastimir Ananiev; - by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova again on a question by Mr. Ananiev. He also has a response from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva, as well as from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Nevin Hassan; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education Meglena Kuneva on a question from Stefan Zhelev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MP Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - by Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - from the Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski again to two questions by Svetoslav Belemezov; - from Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Kiril Dobrev; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question by Mariana Boyadjieva; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question of the National Representative Emil Raynov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from Mrs. Marinska; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question by Stoyan Mirchev; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to three questions from Georgi Svilenski; - from Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova to a question by Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski; - from Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from Svilenski and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - from Petar Moskov to a question from Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - from Minister Rusinova to a question of Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova; - from Temenuzhka Petkova to a question by Grozdan Karadzhov; - from Minister Moskov to Sultanka Petrova; - from Nikolai Nenchev to a question of Manol Genov; - by Minister Lilyana Pavlova of a question by Mihail Mikov; - from Minister Nikolina Angelkova to two questions by Georgi Kuchukov and Petar Kadiev; - from Minister Moskov to Mr. Dimitar Dubov's question; - by Mrs. Meglena Kuneva's reply to Mr. Stanislav Stanilov; - Nikolay Nenchev answer of Mr. Angel Naydenov; - Desislava Taneva responds to Dora Yankova. We are moving on to the current parliamentary control for today, in which the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov was the first to be included. By letter No 654-06-1297 of 2 September 2016, 10.21 p.m., the People's Representative Mr Christian Vigenin, on the grounds of art. 92, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, asks that the answer to his question be postponed to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov on the government's policy to ensure balances and security in the Black Sea region, by No 654-06-1297 of 15 July 2016. We therefore begin with the answers of Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science. The first is a common issue by the MPs Mariana Boyadzhieva and Stoyan Mirchev on the implementation of the principle the money follows the student when financing the school institutions. The issue will be developed by Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u50	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! One of the essential reforms already implemented in education is the implementation of the principle of the Money follow the student. In funding school institutions, this principle has been working through delegated budgets since 2008. The implementation of this principle had as one of its results, strengthening the independence of Bulgarian schools through delegated budgets and by granting delegated right to the Director to form the school's budget independently in compliance with the established rules. An important result was the optimization of the school network, brought into line with the changed number of population and students in different settlements. Along with this, however, in almost eight years the negatives of this principle have emerged. It must be clear, on the basis of analysis, how these negatives will be overcome. Today, there is a question of the public effect of this principle, which is directly linked to the conditions of a demographic crisis under which it is applied. Madam Minister, please answer: is the Ministry of Education and Science analyzing the results of the implementation of the principle during the past period foreseen changes in the implementation of delegated budgets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u51	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science Ms. Meglena Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u52	Dear Madam President, Dear Mrs. Boyadjieva, Dear Mr. Mirchev, Ladies and Gentlemen of the National Assembly! First of all, I would like to wish you a successful session within a few seconds, and I hope that, just as the Minister of Education and Science is the first to answer in this session of your questions, so that education and science remain an absolute priority in each of the next important actions that will take place here in the National Assembly. To your question. You are right, the facts have been set out...... 2008 was introduced the measure for delegated budgets and this happened not without the support of your parliamentary group as well. However, I'm afraid there is some mixing of concepts, so I'm going to allow myself to clarify. Delegated budgets are not an expression of the so-called principle. The money follows the student. Delegated budgets are a set of powers of directors with regard to the management of the budget, which are regulated in the Law, including in this Law, which has already entered into force. An analysis of delegated budgets is constantly being carried out and the assessment of the functions of this mechanism, as I said, is positive in general opinion, including social partners. And the other institutions regularly discuss it, including with the Growing Council, that is, this work of ours will continue persistently in the coming months. As for the notion of money, the student follows, of course, it is not legal. I assume that you are referring to the rules for determining the funds from the state budget to finance expenditure for educational institutions up to the level of senior authorising officers with budget ministries and municipalities. Here's the way things are. The funds for a school to a certain extent always depend on the number of students. I think that's fair. But the distribution mechanism is not entirely based on numbers. The senior managers with the budget of the ministries and municipalities confirm formulas by which they allocate up to 20% of the funds received by cost standards between kindergartens and school base based on criteria other than the number of students. The distribution mechanisms seek to achieve a balance between the objectives of educational policy. I would like to draw attention to the key role that municipalities have as a primary officer in the reform that has been carried out, because they are the ones who confirm the formulas. I would like to point out that there are not a small number of compensatory mechanisms to ensure equal access to quality and effective education, such as protected schools and kindergartens, which receive additional funds. Here is a search for a balance between physical access to education and quality of education. Or the funding of undersized classes is sufficient if the class has a normal number of students, but additional funding receive classes with a number of students below the norm. A new mechanism for grouping municipalities into seven groups was introduced in 2012 when setting cost standards. This new grouping takes into account more precisely demographic indicators such as the number of settlements in the municipality and population density. Another example of a compensatory mechanism is the mandatory additional element in the allocation formulas that I mentioned, namely permanent cost supplements. This is an amount independent of the number of students and is a measure introduced in 2014. I would also like to highlight the institutional memory of the Ministry. In summary, I would like to say that it is very clear: the system is complex, we all understand this. It is a system with about 2500 schools and 2000 kindergartens funded by 269 chief authorising officers. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It needs continuous optimization and this is constantly being done, as it has become clear from the short exhibition over the years that I have just done.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. - What's the line? Mrs. Boyadjieva has the opportunity to make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u54	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for your reply, but I think that these theoretical plays we know well, and the problem is that, seeing the positive points of delegated budgets for strengthening the independence of Bulgarian schools, at the same time I think we cannot deny that the introduction of them has negative phenomena because many of the Bulgarian schools have closed down. It has been shown that under the existing socio-economic conditions in Bulgaria the closure of schools, especially in small settlements, leads to an increase in the number of premature dropouts of Bulgarian children from school, is an additional reason for the removal of Bulgarian families, especially of young people to larger cities and for the depopulation of whole areas. We need to be clear that the summary was born, we cannot deny that the closure of schools, the closing of settlements. In this sense, our question to you was to see if there is such an analysis and what follows from this analysis, so that the system of delegated budgets can be improved? I hope that you will show vision, professionalism, I would say courage, so that the system of delegated budgets can be improved. Madam Minister, you may not have heard the voice of Bulgarian teachers, of directors who say that you should continue the implementation of delegated budgets, but with a new vision to guarantee the financial responsibility of the state and municipalities to every Bulgarian school, to every Bulgarian kindergarten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u55	A hole? Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u56	I take advantage of my right to duplicate, not to complete my answer, because you have spoken in general, in general, and you have put emphasis on the desire of the Ministry to improve every single educational policy and especially this one. Do not doubt this desire, Mrs. Boyadjieva, as I do not want to doubt that Bulgarian education will not and will not have opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u57	Next, there is a question of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov concerning problems in the practical application of the texts of the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria in the sector. Mr. Ademov will develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science, Mrs. Minister! Madam Deputy Prime Minister, our question is related to the career development of young scientists in Bulgaria, in particular those in the sector...................................................................................... About three years ago, the Law on the Development of the Academic Board was passed. The practice of applying this Law has shown some weaknesses to which I would like to draw your attention. Young scientists in the sector..... after going through a tough competition are charged as PhD students and assistants and within four years have to defend a dissertation. This is extremely difficult in this sector because, in addition to direct diagnostic and medical work, other than teaching work, they should also be involved in preparing a serious scientific product. During these four years, it has been shown that in the sector of............... it is very difficult to combine all these things. However, if PhD students and assistants do not meet this requirement within 4 years to defend a thesis, the relevant Deans of higher education institutions are obliged, under the current legislation, to release these PhD students and assistants, which is a prerequisite for turnover in this area. By the way, even the most attractive specialties are difficult to find in the already announced contests for PhD students and assistants. In this regard, our question to you is: what does the Ministry of Education and Science provide for in order to solve these problems, even more so, that there are one additional problem related to the regulations on the acquisition of specialty,.. Ordinance No 1 of the Ministry of Health, according to which, while you are a PhD student you cannot specialize in, and vice versa. When you are a resident you cannot in any way participate in the development of a dissertation product?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u59	For an answer Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kardzhaliev, Mr. Ademov, you will allow me, of course, not to respond to the legislation of the Ministry of Health, I will concentrate my response in my competence, starting with the information first. The Law on the Development of the Academic Board, on which you built your question, has been in force since 2010. The Law and its Rules on Implementation lay down the general terms and conditions for the acquisition of scientific degrees and for the taking of academic positions. They contain no discriminatory texts in respect of any category of scientists, including young doctors who also work as lecturers in medical universities or researchers in health research organisations. As legislator, you have certainly had the opportunity to influence this process positively. The provisions for the four-year period within which they must prepare and protect thesis papers for the acquisition of educational and scientific degrees.Doctor................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The philosophy of the Law, supported by the Ministry of Education and Science, is that young scientists should be stimulated to develop professionally and get the opportunity to take a higher academic position. As you know, the temporary employment contracts for the assistants were introduced precisely for this purpose to end the practice that existed before the adoption of the Law, the assistants to remain such for their entire academic career. If medical universities and scientific organisations in the field of health have certain difficulties in combining teaching, scientific and medical activities, there are no legal obstacles to introducing specific additional burden relief through their internal rules. The entire responsibility for carrying out the procedures for the acquisition of academic degrees in accordance with the laws and academic ethics shall be for the management of higher schools and scientific organisations, members of the jury and persons involved in the procedures. Directly speaking, without removing it from the subtext, it is not the duty of the Ministry. At this stage, the Ministry of Education does not have enough arguments for regulatory changes to establish different rules for the persons holding the academic position of the assistant in the field of medicine. Regulation No 1, which you have quoted, I will say again, we do not have the authority to rule, as appropriate, on its provisions, but in the light of the circumstances, I do know how difficult it is for young doctors, for residents, for people who want to do science, to maintain all these qualities. In this regard, I think you will find understanding in the Ministry of Health. With expert help, we are also on your side. The goal is really to have motivated people who want to do science, especially young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u61	The line, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, I thank you for this answer, for the revelation and for the recognition that such a problem really exists. There is no escape from this problem because medicine in Bulgaria is completed in six years. Four more years of PhD. By the way, as long as you're a PhD, you can't be a specialist, which means you have to specialize for another four years. That is, within 14 years you can be a specialist with a clinical specialty acquired in the appropriate order under Ordinance No 1 of the Ministry of Health, and separately you can be a PhD student and assistant within those four years, which I mentioned, up to four years. This means that joint efforts must be made by both the National Assembly and your Ministry of Health to solve this problem once and for all. This issue creates problems not only for the management of higher medical schools, this issue also creates a problem for the quality of education in the various specialties in the health care sector. Because you can think for yourself that all these young specialists, all these young scientists in the presence of these problems, in the presence of this framework, prefer to exercise their practice and enjoy their opportunities in other countries of the European Union and leave Bulgaria. It is no accident that the Bulgarian Medical Union comes up with information that every year between 500 and 600 young specialists leave Bulgaria. In order to provoke the interest of Bulgarian doctors, young scientists in science, we must do something about this, otherwise they will continue to leave the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u63	A hole, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u64	Dear Mr. Ademov, I can base my answer on the facts, and as Minister of Education and Science, not on health care. I have an excellent colleague in the face of Minister Moskov who will enter into a professional conversation with you. But I want to give you the facts again, and you can do the right thing. In the reference made by me, preparing for your question, in the database of the National Information and Documentation Centre of the Ministry of Education and Science, the following was found in the database of the National Information and Documentation Centre of the Ministry of Education and Science. In 2014 their total number was 111, in higher schools 78, in scientific organizations 33. In 2015, they were 127, in higher schools 87, and in scientific organizations 40. So far for 2016 they are 32 in higher schools and 23 in scientific organizations, but we have a next session and I suppose their number will rise substantially. Obviously, there are no negative results in this direction and in the current provisions of the Law, but we are following closely, so I told you what the facts are to keep them in mind. We follow closely and do our best to make this Law work in a good direction, including for people who are involved in science in medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u65	Mrs. Kuneva, thank you for participating in the parliamentary control, for the fact that it so happens that you have discovered the control of this session. We move on to the answers of Minister Lilyana Pavlova. She will first ask her question Mrs. Saliha Emin about reconstruction and rehabilitation of the Republican road III-8563 Cobiling.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u66	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question to you is related to the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the Republican road village of Kobilane and Slupka in Kardzhali district. Dear Minister of the Republican Road Kobilane is in a total length of 22.5 km and is in an extremely poor operating condition. The road is the only link between the population of the villages of Chromitsa, Brezen, Borovitsa, Golubrad, Suhovo, Kitnitsa, Slupka, Ljubino, Rusal, Rich, Mlechino, Gorno Dustovo, Lower Powderovo and Bashevo with the district town of Kardzhali and the other settlements of the district. Over the years, a number of requests have been made for urgent measures to be taken for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the Republican road, but the measures taken are extremely insufficient, leading to an increase in discontent among the residents of the specified settlements, guests and tourists in the region. After the last request for urgent measures to be taken for reconstruction and rehabilitation, which was made by the mayors of the villages, a written reply was received from the Road Infrastructure Agency. No 08-00-693 of 13 June 2016. It marks the poor operating condition of the road, but lacks a specific response for possible actions that really lead to its permanent improvement. In view of the above, Madam Minister, I ask you to answer the following questions: what is the reason for inaction with regard to the urgent need for urgent reconstruction? Earlier, when can action be taken that will result in a lasting improvement in the performance of the Republican road "Boiling'? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Emin. Here you are, Minister Pavlova, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u68	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Emin, you're right, unfortunately, this time she's in extremely bad shape. This is a road built in the last century, 64th year is built. As gauges and way of construction of this road is originally intended to be a fourth-class municipal road. It subsequently became part of the Republican road network and was reclassified on a third-class road, but it has a narrow gauge in some of the sections connecting the settlements in Kardzhali District, and in particular Ardino Municipality. You're right, the road really needs some serious reconstruction. This also shows the analysis of the overall Republican road network throughout the country that the Road Agency is carrying out. The condition of the road is bad. What is being done for its maintenance are the opportunities that the Road Agency has on the line of ongoing repair and maintenance. In the past year and a half, we've invested over 170 grand. lv. In a partial patching of the road, but it certainly doesn't help its lasting and stable, I'd say recovery. For the moment, these are the efforts we are continuing. What is planned as continuing action is to resume the partial patching of the most compromised sections of this road over 22 kilometers long. For its overall reconstruction, as this time it needs enlargement, road-based reconstruction and complete re-asphalting, as an investment is more than 9 million. lv. and therefore it is not provided for in the Agency's budget for this year. Therefore, we will continue with the efforts of ongoing repair and maintenance, of partial maintenance, and step by step, you know, we are looking for an opportunity for Republican roads, especially from the third grade, which are in the worst condition, to be fully restored, but due to budget constraints cannot be done simultaneously for all roads. This year was the focus in North-West Bulgaria. We will continue our efforts there and now, in relation to the budget's possibilities for a more dense, I would say, patching up and roads such as those that really need significant repairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u69	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Emin, come in. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I'm glad you understand the importance of the problem. We face this problem every day in this region. I also realize completely that you have many commitments. Following closely your policies that you are leading, I see that you attach great importance to the overall road network, to the big projects and to the highways, but I call on you, because I think you are a serious person, to make a commitment in the near future to solve this problem with these people who live at the bottom of the Rhodopes, the people who regularly pay their taxes and the wine taxes. You know that there are also regularly paid wine fees. The road is in extremely difficult condition. It hides serious dangers especially during the winter period. You remember, you also moved to this place that winter when we had to get people out of there in helicopters. That is why, Madam Minister, I ask you once again, with great respect, to do what is necessary in the coming months. From your response, I realized that it doesn't matter where it is this time, which municipality, which political party it is governed by. I believe that all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of where they are, deserve the least quality life. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Emin. Those were additional motives. We can move on to the next question from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev regarding the installation of road signs for tourist sites. Here you are, Mr. Delchev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, during my tours in the country I found that the main tourist sites in Bulgaria, such as the old Bulgarian capitals, the Rila Monastery, the Old Town in Plovdiv and the cultural heritage sites of UNESCO are not marked on the main motorways and first-class roads in the country. This creates difficulties for citizens to visit and get acquainted with these places and, on the other hand, reduces the tourist flow and economic benefits for the local population. The organization of information and indicating signs to tourist sites in the country are just as important as the organisation and management of the sites themselves. The tags that are designed to guide visitors to some tourist destinations in the country are specific and brown in color. The problem is that many of them are placed by private individuals and as a result have a different format. There is no standard format and policy on where to place the signs. At the same time, in neighbouring countries, such as Serbia, there are similar signposts on all major roads to tourist sites, allowing for better orientation and attracting a larger stream of tourists. And in this regard, my questions are as follows: Is there a state policy to designate tourist sites on the Republican Road Network that is managed by your trusted Ministry and subordinate structures? What is the number of replaced and newly installed signs indicating the direction towards the tourist sites Are new road signs in brown color intended to guide traffic from highways through the first-class roads to the historic Bulgarian capitals Pliska and Veliki Preslav? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u73	You have the floor, Madam Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u74	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Delchev, regarding road signs indicating a direction towards tourist sites, cultural monuments, I would like to inform you and assure you that they exist in our country and standards and procedures for their placement as they exist in other countries. According to Ordinance No 18, adopted as early as 2001, there is a special order in which all road signs are installed in the territory of our country, and in a separate, separate category of road signs type..... are road signs in several types which indicate respectively tourist sites type. Museums, reserves and monuments of culture.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What's the procedure? The first very important thing we need to know is that everyone who wants to put a road sign on the road in no way. This is impossible, unacceptable and prohibited because incorrect installation of a road sign, or its installation in an inappropriate location, may cause a traffic accident. The procedure is as follows: the manager of such an object for which we want to put a brown sign, a sign for a tourist site, or the respective mayor of a municipality, or a district manager, or the one who manages the cultural monument, may state the placing of such a sign at the Road Agency to the relevant regional road management. Regional road management experts shall determine the exact location in order to be able to place this road sign safely, produce the road sign and, at the expense of the Road Agency, produce, pay and install the road sign when requested. So the procedure exists. For the period from 2014 to the moment you ask, such requests have been received for 27 new brown signposts for tourist attractions and tourist sites. And with regard to the sites of which you mentioned both Pliska and Veliki Preslav, for the old Bulgarian capitals, there are currently road signs The experts of the regional road management have made an overview of their condition and no need for their replacement has been established at the moment due to, let's say, their poor condition. At the moment, we do not have any request for installation, installation, production or replacement of such a type of road sign for a tourist site. We are available, willing and ready, of course, in the direction and at all newly built motorways to place such type of signposts to tourist sites, but this should be on the initiative and motivation of the respective managers and owners of these tourist sites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u75	Thank you. Would you like the floor? Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u76	Dear Minister, thank you for your detailed response to the way you showed the steps to put such road signs. As a lawyer, no doubt, I confirm that the procedure must be followed, no matter how many people have to go along the chain to put such road signs. My question is inspired by a visit to the Pliska, where people complained that there were signs, but they are too far from the settlement and are not well enough placed so as to prevent confusion of people, constant questions even refusing people to reach, say, an object like the Great Basilica. You are the right holder of this monument of culture to begin the procedure. I hope that if such a procedure starts, you will react in due time because the Great Basilica and generally Pliska, which is an old Bulgarian capital, is a landmark that should be seen in my opinion by every Bulgarian citizen, and, God forbid, by any tourist a landmark that can be visited at any time of the year. The sooner they put up those signposts, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u77	We understand that there is a readiness by the Ministry of Regional Development in compliance with the intended order. We can move on to putting a question by Ivan Ivanov on taking urgent action for the completion of a drinking water treatment station. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the subject on which I raise the question is very familiar to you. On it you have a series of public statements, and repeatedly you have answered questions both of the blitzcontrol and of parliamentary control in this Chamber. It stems from the fact that in 2008 the government invested 30 million. lv. for the establishment of a drinking water treatment plant, which enables Sliven's population to consume clean and healthy water for drinking and household use. Dear Minister, to the question I asked you a year and three months ago, you replied that you were predicting for last year and this year 4 million. BGN, with 10 million needed to complete the treatment plant. lv. Appreciate your personal, management qualities, your ability to solve current problems in our country's regional policy, I am counting on you to be able to make the Sliven problem a priority. The talks we have had with the mayor of Sliven convince us that he, as a elected authority of the local government, sees the problem as a priority for the citizens of Sliven. I would like to put my particular question in the following way: will you, as Minister of Regional Development, take the necessary action to ensure the finishing works for the launch of the drinking water treatment plant in Sliven within the current management mandate, which will solve the most important problem for the population of Sliven............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I remind you that the provision of water supply in the country is within the priorities and prerogatives of government policy, and your commitment would be crucial to bringing the project to an effective conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u79	You have the floor, Madam Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, you and I are quite often discussing the issue of Sliven's drinking water treatment plant within and under the blitzcontrol that we have in the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. What I can once again confirm here, in front of the present MPs in the Chamber, is, yes, definitely, all the efforts of the Ministry and in my person in the sector As you know, from this year we have created, and a budget programme of 24 million is already being implemented. BGN, through which we provide.. we have called it Clean Drinking Water. Support for municipalities that have poor quality of water, which have a problem with drinking water, phased to finance sites. Certainly the resource is not enough to cover the needs of these settlements, but this is a long-standing programme through which we will try to gradually support certain settlements, in addition to the funds we receive under the funding from the European funds under the Environment Programme. Specifically regarding the drinking water treatment plant in Sliven. Once again, let's bring back the contract made for its realization. In fact, the initial implementation of such a treatment plant began in the 1980s and in 1987 began the original construction of this treatment plant. Then, in the years ahead, it started and stopped construction, and in the period 2008 - 2009, it was renewed once again. However, in the absence of sufficient funding, the site is not finished again. The current contract for the construction of the treatment plant, which we have had since then, with the Ministry, amounts to almost 35 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv. With VAT, the activities implemented so far and paid by the Ministry's budget amount to 30 million. Unfortunately, they're not enough to complete the station. The remaining 4.2 million. BGN, which we have under a contract for completion of the treatment plant, as I replied before, I answer today - they are transferred to the budget of the Ministry, but the very completion of the treatment plant, unfortunately, cannot be done when providing the 4.2 million. As I told you before, when you asked me this question, I confirm it and at the moment, from the contractor and the supervision of the project we have requested additional funding beyond those 4.2 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. with VAT, which makes 10 million. lv. a total value of the necessary works to be carried out in order for this drinking water treatment plant to be completed and put into service. Although, as I've told you before, and I'm confirming to this day even to finish, even if it provides that $10 million. lv. This treatment plant won't work. It will not be able to work and will be like a museum, because there is no provision for this treatment plant in this project, and it was not generally provided for, the construction of an extractor and accordingly lead a plumbing for the extraction and extraction of purified water to provide clean drinking water for the population of Sliven municipality. The same contractor also gave a proposal on how to solve this problem. This is an investment of almost 10 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. without VAT is the value requested according to estimates and preliminary projects for the receiving and extracting plumbing. In summary, this means that 20 million is needed for the time being. BGN, if we want this treatment plant to work. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If I may, dear Mr. Chairman, literally half a minute to finish. What we have planned for this year in the budget of the Ministry, and for the next, are 4 million, which are standard under contract and for which we have a commitment. The remaining funds are not available. What we have assigned within the pre-investment research for Sliven area under the project we have funded under the Environment Programme is to develop a common application form. I also hope that we will receive support from European funding under this operational programme, at least for the receiving and diverting plumbing. At this point, I see this as the only opportunity to finish this treatment plant and make it work. The entire budget, of the entire Ministry, for the whole country for the sector. As much as it would cost us to complete the treatment plant in Sliven. That's why we're doing this step by step. We work with the contractor, we do the finishing work, but they won't be enough under the contract we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u81	You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ivanov. As long as you're coming with another million dollars, it could cost the facility a fortune.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear Minister, in the first public discussion we also focused on this. According to the logic of the arguments that we have just heard from the viewers and colleagues, we understand that we are ready to put a cross on the already invested BGN 30 million, with the prospect that over the next few years we will provide several million a year to complete something that is extremely important for the citizens of Sliven. I am concerned with the logic of your reasoning, my dear Minister, because my expectations of you are high, and today you are making me hesitant. I don't want to think that a statesman like you can find arguments to prove that a project doesn't make sense. On the contrary, taking into account the expert, sufficiently reliable opinions and opinions of your predecessor, who has invested the most in building the site so far, I think that some of the works you are setting out are set out in the project and, in this sense, the means for implementation are also planned. That is why we differ in some of the arguments. I would like to stress that the water supply is designed and should not seek additional means to aggravate the achievement of the objective that we have. Thank you, Madam Secretary. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise that the subject we are commenting on is the leading for Sliven region. There have been no significant investment achievements there for many years and this is another reason to keep the plant for a treatment plant to be a priority for this government and for the Ministry, which you are in charge of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u83	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Pavlova, to clarify the questions put in the reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, and I am extremely disappointed in the way you interpret my words, and therefore I must say again in my line what I have tried to say, but obviously either you do not understand it or you are comfortable to interpret it. I said this drinking water treatment plant is important to us. I said that precisely because it is important and it is important that we complete this investment for which 30 million have already been poured out. BGN, we have done what we need to do as far as we can to the extent that we have a contract and commitment of the Ministry to the amount of 34 million as the contract is. We have pawned these funds and are ready to pay them off so the station can be finished. Another question is: how was her project approved when the contract was awarded in 2008? Why is it that, when this construction contract was concluded, the water supply to this treatment plant was not provided? Yes, he may have an idea design, dear Mr. Ivanov, but there is no financial security. This contract is financially unsecured. These are good intentions. I have good intentions, too, but we can't stop there. To realize these good intentions, we need a financial resource. We have secured the financial resources within the Ministry's budget and it will be implemented. The project will be completed, but it will not be able to be put into operation, as it is originally misplaced, miscompleted, to my great regret, in the years behind, and for this reason we are looking for all possible ways not only to build a museum and I am here before you to report that yes, we have secured 4 million, we have built a museum, but we cannot feed it water and therefore we cannot take water from it to the citizens of Sliven. Therefore, within the limits of all the opportunities that European funding and the state budget give us, we are looking for the best possible solution to provide all the necessary, significant, as you have heard just now, a resource with which this station will be finished, because it is undoubtedly an important priority for us. As important as it is to complete and build a drinking water station in Shumen and in all other major settlements, which do not today have a drinking water treatment plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u85	Thank you. We move on to the next question from Yavor Haytov on the implementation of the government programme adopted by Decision No 42 of 26 January 2015 of the Council of Ministers, Chapter XIII, Priority 13, item. 1, in the part of "Support in the development of Northwestern Bulgaria." You're welcome to make your point and make your point, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, perhaps when you talk about water supply, you should always start and end with Vratsa because all other problems pale in comparison with the problems of Vratsa Municipality and Vratsa as a whole about water supply and problems in this sector. My question is in another direction and it is again, of course, related to what you promise as governors, which you clearly stated in your programming documents. Minister, the government programme for 2014-2018 adopted by Decision No 42 of 26 January 2015 provides for a priority investment programme for Northwestern Bulgaria. A major commitment, stated many times by government representatives, including you, is the development and maintenance of infrastructure in this part of Bulgaria. As the main road artery for connection of the region with the rest of the country has repeatedly been emphasized on the need to build a four-band road in the Botevgrad section. My question to you is very brief, very precise and very clear: when will the four-band road between Botevgrad and Mezdra be built? Do I need to stress the extreme need to build this area? I am convinced that you, as a person who knows matter in detail, and the region, much more detailed than I am, can argue why this is important. That is why my question to you is so simple, I would say, so clear: when will this road section be built? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u87	You have the floor, Madam Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, we cannot reduce to the elementary question when, the construction of a strategic national road site in the direction of Sofia, Vidin, or in particular in the Mezdra section of Botevgrad, to an elementary question: when? I can reply briefly: as soon as the necessary financial resources are provided for its construction. The financial resources needed for the construction of the Mezdra section, Botevgrad alone, for example, costs 309 million. lv. This transcends the entire budget of the Road Agency, which includes a budget related to the maintenance of the Winter, Current, Road Repair, Maintenance of the Road Agency, only for this small section. The entire Sofia-Sofia-Vidin is an investment of more than 1 billion, as well as the Ruse-Veliko Tarnovo-Hemus highway, the Sofia-Sofia highway and all other strategic road infrastructure, undoubtedly important, undoubtedly significant for the development of our national strategic road infrastructure. Yes, the Sofia-Vidin-Sofia-Vidin-Sofia-Sofia-Kalotina, the Hemus-Home Highway, Veliko Tarnovo-Ruse, are all important strategic sites for which we currently have neither European funding nor enough national funding in the budget, with which we can start their construction immediately and at the same time. As you know, the government has adopted a National long-term strategy for the development of road infrastructure in the country and there this site, as well as those I have listed at the moment, are set as priority sites. I hope that, in the years ahead, we will be able to provide funding for each of them as we have just begun with the completion of the Regarding the programme for the development of Northwestern Bulgaria adopted by the government, I would like to make one clarification, I have done it before, but I want to clearly distinguish it. The programme for the weakly developed regions of Bulgaria, Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha and Sakar is a programme aimed not at developing road infrastructure, which I have already said we have a national strategy and programme for its development, is a programme aimed at the weakly developed regions, of course, with a focus on Northwestern Bulgaria, where we are looking for projects, measures and investments mainly in the field of employment, social sphere, social assistance and programmes along the line that can be additional incentives and measures for future investors to reveal jobs there, a programme related to health, education and so on to support human potential in the region. That's the difference between programs. So you should not expect that we will repeat in all the programs measures. Each program has its focus. The national road strategy is how we will develop the roads, and the Northwestern Bulgaria Development Program includes, I would call them soft measures related to the potential for development so that people living in Northwestern Bulgaria can also have employment opportunities, education, social and so on systems, so this is the difference in this type of programme. We can't talk about failing government programs. As I said once again in conclusion: the Mezdra direction has its project readiness. We have a technical project, a design for the facility for this precinct. It's divided into two lots. The indicative value of these two lots is 309 million. Depending on the possibilities and the provision of funding, we are prepared to begin procedures for selecting a contractor. At the moment, our commitment is in September with a decree of the Council of Ministers to make the first decision to alienate the necessary properties in this direction. I hope that by the end of this year we will be able to do the basic alienation procedures. Depending on the appeals, this will enable us to have a building permit issued and issued next year. From then on, it will be a question of providing funding for how many sub-divisions we would divide the site so that we can start its phased development depending on the availability and budget capabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u89	Mr. Haytov, you have an opportunity for a line. Perhaps now you should ask where and when the funding will be provided.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You are an experienced parliamentarians and correctly predict, but I am satisfied with two things. The first is that it was very clearly stated by this tribune that the project is ready, there is. This is not small. Of course, it is extremely insufficient. The second moment: from October begins also something very important and these are alienation procedures. We have all united and supported the legal changes that allow for the so-called pre-execution. This was one of the first legal changes that the National Assembly made to enable the government to implement the infrastructure projects that it has detailed in its programme. So two things have become clear: there is a project ready, and this month the alienation of the respective terrains begins. I would like to assure you, Madam Minister, that with the modest capabilities of an opposition MP when entering the budgetary procedure this will be one of the points for which I will really insist, albeit partially, to start working on this project, because it is really extremely important and is of national importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u91	Thank you. Would you like to engage in the subject of the budget? No. Perhaps this will be further discussed. I thank Mrs. Pavlova for her participation in parliamentary control. We can move on to the issues raised by the Minister of Health Petar Moskov. The first of these is from two MPs - Kiril Dobrev and Radoslav Stoychev - about the material base of specialized hospitals for rehabilitation. You have the floor, Mr. Stoychev, to raise the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! On 5 February 2016 was held a meeting between the mayor of Kostenets municipality, the President of the Municipal Council Kostenets, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and a representative of the specialized hospitals for rehabilitation. A representative of the Ministry of Health has not been sent to this meeting. At the meeting the citizens and the mayor of the municipality continued to insist on the return of ownership of the material base of the Mineral Baths. There is also a legal possibility to transfer ownership of the properties of the former Sanitary-Corteen Complex of the Municipality of Kostenets. Such a precedent exists with regard to the Municipality of Troyan, when in 2014 the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Health, then reduced the capital of specialized hospitals for rehabilitation by decomposing shares corresponding to the value of property rights in the village of Shipkovo and transferred them free of charge to the municipality of Troyan. Within the previous term of office, the municipal council of Kostenets has taken a decision authorising the mayor of the municipality of Kostenets to request a free transfer of the property of the Baths to the municipality of Kostenets. The request has been made, subsequent correspondence has also been made, but no transfer has been made. At the end of last year the mayor of Kostenets municipality again insisted on meeting with the Ministry of Health's leadership, but a refusal was received. On January 21st of this year, in the administration of Kostenets municipality was received extremely disturbing about the future of the Mineral Baths letter. In this letter, Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Boyko Penkov informed the Mayor of Kostenets Municipality that the company whose principal is the Ministry and in whose property the properties are currently owned is that it is clear and unacceptable for them to be returned to the municipality and believes that their future management includes only requited forms of order. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. In relation to what has been said so far, we ask you, Mr Minister, the following question: what measures and actions will you take or have taken with regard to the material base of Specialized Hospitals for Rehabilitation National Complex EAD with the company "Momin Pass" whose principal is the Ministry of Health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u93	Here you are, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u94	Good afternoon! Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen Dobrev and Stoychev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! With regard to your question regarding the material base of the SBRNC whose principal is the Ministry of Health, I shall inform you of the following: "Specialised hospitals" is a medical establishment "commercial company" within the meaning of the Commercial Law § 1, item 1. 2 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Medical Institutions, such as it is managed and represented by its management bodies. The management of the company, including with regard to the material base of the branch Momin Pass of SBR-NK EAD, is a matter of management approach and skills of the management bodies. The view of the Board of Directors of the company for the future management of property, including the material base of the subsidiary Momin Pass, includes only requited forms of order. Here I confirm what was obtained in the municipality by Deputy Minister Penkov (in the broad sense of the concept), such as the long-term lease, sale or search for investors for a joint activity. The funds received in this way will be used to improve the conditions and quality of the main That's my formal answer, gentlemen. Or else I'll say this. From a philosophical point of view, the idea of the large company from specialized rehabilitation hospitals, which are valuable not with buildings that have long since been maintained, but with its natural resources, it is mineral water, whether it be some specific climate building or something else... The philosophy of the ministry is that they must remain in the patrimony of the state. We're doing everything we can for this. As a team of the Ministry, we found several orders relating to the beginning of a process of removing such companies from the Ptrimonium of the SBI for the purpose of handing over, transfering, that is to say, something which is undoubtedly available to all Bulgarian citizens as the respective natural resources which have also turned Momin's passage into a type of resort and rehabilitation center must be available to the company which the state, following the legal norms that you have adopted, has implemented. Currently there are serious investment interests of foreign investors with which the SBI is in negotiations, of course, then the sanctions of the ministry and the Council of Ministers will be needed, indeed for serious investments to restore the material base, but at the same time to remain the property of the specialized complex, i.e. the state as a state, because they themselves are hospital structures, again cannot be in favor of the maximum number of Bulgarian citizens. This answer should fit your part of the room more than mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u95	Thank you. Mr. Stoychev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I understand from your response that you have taken some action on an arrangement on a public-private partnership that the state will make with an outside investor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u97	There is such an opportunity and requested interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u98	There's a demand for interest. It is important to hear the residents of the municipality of Kostenets that some investment is about to take place in these hospitals. These hospitals will remain, as I understand, in the property of the specialized hospitals for rehabilitation and the principal Ministry of Health and that additional investments will be made to improve the material base and that you do not intend to conduct negotiations for executive transactions to the municipality of Kostenets.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u99	Except for retribution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u100	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u101	Here you are to further clarify the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u102	Once again, yes, all those goals that I have set, you have correctly formulated. What I can't commit to right now is an accurate timing with an exact time frame of this thing. Together with the Ministry of Tourism, we make the necessary efforts, because this, among other things, can become a serious tourist destination where we hold the economy and the whole place. Otherwise, any possible relationship, including with the municipality, can only be on the line of retribution, as written in the letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u103	Thank you. We move on to a question from Willy Lilkov about the lack of pharmacies in the villages and small municipal centers. You have the floor, Mr. Lilkov, to motivate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my question concerns a problem that affects approximately two million people in Bulgaria. It is related to the lack of pharmacies in villages and small municipal centers. In Bulgaria there are about 5070 villages, some of them with calming functions. In total, there are about 160 pharmacies. That is, almost all small settlements in Bulgaria are deprived of direct access to medicines. The situation is very worrying because there are mostly few people living there. In addition, many of them have a calming type, mostly living elderly people who need access to medicines. It is so that the mayors, relatives and relatives of these people commit almost weekly to providing the execution of recipes, to delivering medicines. The paradox is that instead of investing in development of an pharmacies network, all of us and mainly the people from small towns invest in transport. Sometimes it is so that to supply a person with a medicine that costs 2.00 " 3.00 lv. must invest BGN 5,00 to go to the municipal center. The problem is really very serious. And if I add here without wanting to expand the subject, and the lack of 24-hour pharmacies even in district centers, the problem becomes very serious. So my question is this: what does your ministry intend to take as a policy to solve this problem, which you know much better than I do that it is extremely serious and affects, I repeat, almost two million people in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u105	For an answer, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, I will allow myself before the answer to your specific question, I will use this case to offer you the admiration for the efforts that you and your Northwestern colleagues are putting into the possibility of small offices, nurses' care of this area anyway. It is indeed a useful effort, but in so far as this cannot be an individual effort of MPs, but must be a systemic commitment of the state, to say the answer to your question. I'll focus on the specifics of the answer. There's a lot of data that you'll then get. The analysis shows that our country is in one of the top pharmacies per capita, but one of the last to access a pharmaceutical service. As access to a pharmaceutical service is determined not by the number of pharmacies, but by the volume of activities they provide and their equal distribution on the territory of the country in the situation that you described. The current legal regime does not regulate criteria regarding the distribution and density of pharmacies by territory or the mode of operation of the pharmacy. I'll tell you what measures have been taken. At the beginning of this month, a new information platform for automated summary information was launched bringing together the registers of the Ministry of Health, the Drug Executive Agency, the National Health Insurance Fund for the retail outlets of medicinal products. The information on the population is provided by the National Statistical Institute and the data on Master Pharmacists from the national register of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. This information platform is a valuable tool and database in the preparation of the National Pharmacy Card, which is set up as a project and I hope that all MPs will support in the coming literally in the coming weeks of consideration in Parliament...................................................................................................................................................... This is related to policies for revealing pharmacies in municipalities with few populations and ensuring equal access to medicines, pharmaceutical services and care. The specific measures proposed as state policy, respectively to the majority in this area, are: First, in a populated area with a shortage of pharmacies, they will be able to operate at a second or next address pharmacies authorised for retail medicinal products. The aim of the proposal is to stimulate active pharmacies, to say, in the larger town around these villages, to expand their activities in settlements where there is a shortage of pharmacies, mostly small settlements. The disclosure of a second and subsequent address will require smaller investments and less costs for pharmacies, as the administrative procedure for its disclosure is as easy as possible and the fees for this service will be minimal. It will not be required at the second address to be designated Master Pharmacists in this place, in which up to now the problem was, but will be allowed to be no less than two days a week at 4 hours. Secondly, another way to improve access provided for in the legal texts to be examined by the National Assembly is the possibility of revealing pharmacies that are led by a Master Pharmacist with less than the required internship, as well as by assistant pharmacists in settlements with a shortage of pharmacies. At present, such pharmacies can only be found in settlements without a pharmacy. The proposed changes enable pharmacies to be exposed, even if there is a shortage of relevant activities in a populated area. In order to ensure 24-hour access to medicinal products in areas with a lack of pharmacies with 24-hour working arrangements at the administrative centre authorised for retail medicinal products, 24-hour work will be provided on a schedule drawn up by the Regional Health Inspection. The timetable will be mandatory and sanctions will be imposed for its non-compliance. That's the point of the map. If you want to uncover a new pharmacy in the center of the big city, yes, reveal it, but if it's your second or third, it has to be either 24-hour or produce shapes, or it has to be in another place as a second address. In my opinion, the most significant measure, which will enable really small, detached, with difficult logistics settlements, is now proposed in the Law to improve the access of patients to medicinal products the creation of mobile pharmacies, which will be the structures of pharmacies operating in the territory of settlements where there is no open pharmacy. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Maybe in the back or whatever they say, I can say a few more words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u107	Yeah, just a minute and a little bit more, but your answer is well enough. The line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u108	Thank you, Madam President. I am partly satisfied with this answer because I see that the Ministry has been working in a sense seriously on the problem. There's a clear suggestion. We, as a parliamentary group, are going to take this debate seriously and add a lot of things that I don't want to talk about right now. The most important thing, Minister, when considering this Law and accordingly the changes we will make is to change the logic in all this activity. At the moment, the supply of medicines has become a trade, not an actual provision of access to medicines for the population. I mean, we have to do everything we can to change philosophy. And something very important.. what is particularly relevant to the problem that I put to solve this problem, we need to strengthen the public-private partnership between municipalities and pharmaceutical companies. Because at the moment in many small settlements there are vacant spaces that can be provided under a light regime for the detection of pharmacies. And something very important is to include municipalities in solving the problem, and why not in subsidizing this activity, especially when it comes to settlements that are 50 miles away from the municipal center. My line comes down to the following: "Thank you for working on this topic, for being ready, and we will take a serious part in the debate and in solving the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u109	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u110	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov, for the good words. Let me just say this. Look, the pharmacy is a business, a kind of trade, and you can't get out of it. It is separate that on the business, on the way the relevant companies, retailers and retailers have made their plans, of course, where they have the greatest profit or return on this thing, should be upgraded if you will as a kind of social policy of the state and of the municipalities. That is why, specifically for mobile pharmacies, we have developed the text and at present only the state and municipalities where there is a need for this and where there is no commercial interest to develop the service from mobile pharmacies. If a mayor, municipality or municipal council believes that this is really his priority, there will be a legal opportunity to do so already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u111	There is a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Emil Raynov about the payment of overtime at the Ministry of Health. The question will be developed by Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Secretary! The question with colleague Svilenski was three months old and was asked in June, when the scandal with the Chief Inspector of the Ministry, which had received 10,000. lv. A month's salary. For March she had worked over 100 hours of overtime and was invariably at the Ministry 12 hours a day, including Saturday and Sunday, even on the National Holiday 3 March. It is curious how this money has been charged for the 100 hours of overtime in question, after the State Officer's Law states that: The length of overtime per year cannot exceed 150 hours per month In the subsequent, I would call it a crisis press conference, it was said that the employee did not have a single day off in March because a report on public procurement was to be prepared with 147 secondary officers to the Ministry. This was requested, you see, by the Prime Minister, a good excuse. It does not only concern health, but also all other ministries. It is interesting that in the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Health, in Section IV, art. 21 concerning the scope and powers of the Inspectorate are not recorded public procurement but are recorded in art. 35 of the Directorate-General for Public Procurement and Public Procurement. Not to mention that information could be obtained from the register of the Public Procurement Agency within one working day. All this led to the question we asked, and it is: is overtime due in your trusty ministry? If so, how do you account for overtime? How much is it paid? Have you ever found any violations of the reporting and payment regulations?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u113	For an answer, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Raynov, the regulation of civil servants' salaries is regulated in the Law on Public Staff and the Regulation on the salaries of public administration officials and other regulations governing matters relating to salaries in budgetary organizations and activities. In accordance with art. 32 of the Law, for the performance of the public service, the civil servant is entitled to a gross salary, which includes a basic salary and additional remuneration. The law on the civil servant, art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 gives the authority the right to determine the individual salaries of civil servants, but in line with the minimum and maximum amounts of basic salaries by levels and degrees laid down in the Staff Regulations of Officials of the State Administration, taking into account the level of employment, qualification and professional experience. The levels of basic monthly salaries shall be determined on the basis of the official levels in the Classifier of posts in the administration. The level of basic monthly salary for the respective level of each employee shall be determined in accordance with the professional experience held. In accordance with the requirement of the Ordinance, Internal rules on salaries of employees in the Ministry of Health are established. The working hours of employees at the Ministry of Health at a 5-day working week are 8 hours a day, 40 hours a week, between 9:00 a.m. to 17.30 p.m. with a lunch break between 12:00 and 14:00 p.m. in the sense that lunch break can be used at this interval. In the buildings of the Ministry is introduced a crossing mode, which takes into account the working time of the employees by card. The civil servant's Law also required employees to carry out their duties after working hours. Unlike the Labour Code, which allows an abnormal working day for certain positions because of the particular nature of the work, but only after consultation with representatives of trade union organisations and with representatives of employees, the civil servant shall, without consideration of the position he performs and without express consent of anyone who is obliged to carry out his duties and after the expiry of the working time. The unions aren't consulted here. According to the Civil Service Act on working days, this is compensated by additional paid annual leave and on weekends with additional overtime remuneration. Under the State Administration Staff Regulations, labour is paid by 75 per cent on the individual basic salary on weekends and a hundred per cent increase for work during the official holidays. The additional overtime remuneration does not have a permanent character. Unlike the Labour Code, the Civil Service Act does not create a limitation on the duration of overtime. In the Ministry of Health, overtime is due, recorded and paid under the statutory order described above, and until now there have been no violations in this regard. Outside the formal answer: much, much work, specifically on a small part of the ministry's employees. You have had the opportunity to be in the cabinet in which I am, and you know, in an administration there are a certain number of employees who are entrusted with the heavy, important, short-term work of competence, quality and everything else. Specially from the point of view of the Inspectorate, I think one of the following issues is related specifically to the activities of the Inspectorate. If it's interesting what exactly, for what results these amounts have been received by the Inspectorate's staff, I'll have the opportunity to say it. The Ministry's employees are overwhelmed, but in the end, I'm going to say something that isn't said from the stands, no one keeps them standing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u115	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, this issue is very important, you could ask your Deputy Minister Sharkov, who in 2012 was the one who raised the issue of bonuses, if you remember The result was then fired director of NHIF, fired director of the Registry Agency, chief of cabinet. Then there was a line of ministers and ministers running to pay back the extra wages because they were scared of dismissals. Then and now the Prime Minister is the same, who even then claimed that no one can take more money than him. The point is that society wants to know what happens and how it spends its money. Mr. Svilensky and I also have a reference to another question of yours, where you write in different positions who received how much for overtime. There he writes: Director of the Directorate at the Ministry received an arithmetic average of BGN 500. Extraordinary month. Given that someone was getting five thousand, that means someone was getting five thousand and another one was getting zero. The public wants to know that. The question, however, is: were the bonuses given and bought loyalty by 2012, and have they now been replaced by overtime paid, which, once again, exceeds the legal annual dimension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u117	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u118	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Dr. Raynov and Mr. Svilensky! First of all, this is not about bonuses in principle to remuneration, it is about concrete and clear.... through presence and really done work, work. The Cashier's input information system can prove it if you wish, I can give you a printout.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u119	They can stay in the Ministry all night!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u120	The point is, they, apart from being in the Ministry, did a specific job. Again: I do not have time within this question to develop the answer. I'll give you the whole answer to the question of the Inspectorate's work, probably again with the same topic. Tell her something else. I do not accept the philosophy associated with the fact that civil servants, because they are basically slackers, respectively receive a minimum wage. This philosophy actually led the public administration to suck out of quality people, from people willing and with perspective to work in the public administration after private business swallowed them up. For me it is extremely important and I make these efforts: in the public administration there is a meaningful, good, dignified, equal pay. At times we have tried to achieve it through a reduction of the general state, keeping the state table and increasing the salaries of the others, so that the quality people of the state administration can not at least in my trusted Ministry be withdrawn to private business. On the contrary, there's been a reverse process lately, it's not systemic, but hopefully it started. What civil servants need are clear rules for hierarchic growth and stable salaries. I'm trying to do it. I say again: it is not a public problem or anyone's, on the contrary, that a civil servant receives a high reward because he has done a concrete, quality, meaningful and effective work. That shouldn't be a problem, Mr. Raynov. I hope you think like me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u121	Following is a question of the MP Yavor Haytov on the common policy and strategy for preventing corruption practices and preventive action by the Ministry of Health. You have the opportunity, Mr. Haytov, to develop this question of yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u122	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, the inspectorates in the various ministries and departments, as if their work, their work remains not always understood and is not always clear enough. On this occasion, I have also asked the Prime Minister a question regarding the activities of the Chief Inspectorate, which is under his authority, and especially of the Minister of Interior. There the Inspectorate has some special functions. Now specifically. Dear Minister, the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Health is under your direct command. The same, according to the regulatory framework, performs and evaluates corruption risk and proposes measures to limit it. This is in point two of the main functions. Point three states that the Inspectorate collects and analyzes information and carries out checks to detect violations, acts of corruption and ineffective work of the administration. Once again, it is your direct submission. My question to you is: in 2015 what is the assessment regarding point two of the main functions of your subordinate Inspectorate? What measures have been taken to limit corruption risk and pressure in the Ministry of Health. According to paragraph three of the above-mentioned Rules, please reply to me: what acts of corruption are established in the Ministry of Health and in the field of health in calendar year 2015? And what measures have been taken to improve the inefficient.. this is a quote from the Rules in the main functions.. the work of the administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u123	For an answer, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u124	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Haytov! Huge is the answer in volume and it will be provided to you with very detailed data. I will try to say just a few basic things in a short time. Firstly, the Inspectorate is directly subordinate to me and its main objective is to provide the necessary feedback on the process of compliance and enforcement of the regulations and internal documents; to provide objective information with analysis and evaluation of the effectiveness of the administrative activity at a certain point in the units and secondary officers and to formulate recommendations for its continuous improvement. In implementation of Priority 5 of the National Strategy Action Plan, the Inspectorate is gathering proposals for anti-corruption measures from all structures in the Ministry of Health system, which were summarized, systematized and analyzed and on their basis was prepared and established by me Sectoral Anti-corruption Plan in the healthcare system. The Inspectorate has been designated as a responsible structure to carry out this assessment of corruption risk. In the implementation of this measure in 2015 the Ministry of Health developed and established a methodology for assessing the corruption risk of the Inspectorate, which takes into account the specifics of the system and can be applied except in the Ministry and in each of the secondary officers. Really very thick and diverse methodology. Following the review of the existing internal policies and procedures and regarding the prevention and countering of corruption and abuses, new Internal Rules on the activities of the Inspectorate have been developed, Internal Rules for the Implementation of Anticorruption Procedures in the Ministry of Health, Internal Rules for the Protection of Individuals of Corruption. A number of channels have been created for the submission of corruption signals in the Ministry of Health, in addition to the standard business and postal sector, telephone, fax, e-mail, hotline and box Anti-Corruption, online form for submission of signals. I can say a lot more about the theory, but I can say a few concrete results for this period, because that's what your question looks like. Very telegraphic. A total of 10 reports from the Inspectorate for 2015 and 2016 have been sent to the Prosecutor's Office, the SDVR and the SANS. Accordingly: RZI - Kyustendil; CSMP - Sofia-district; Center for the Treatment of Children Stoyan Kirkovich, town of Stara Zagora; Hospital Blagoevgrad and for violations by employees of the Ministry. Two joint inspections have been carried out with other competent directorates for the administration of processes carried out in the course of inventory, scrapping, transformation and destruction of fixed and intangible assets. About 1 million missing checks have been carried out. lv. And they've been handed over to the D.A. I mean, from these trials inside the Ministry. The administrative inspection for inventory and scrapping has identified unlawful actions by a number of employees, specifically and by the Ministry of Health. They are also submitted to the competent authorities. On 8 May 2014, another specific case of a previous administration, a serious property was released from the customs office at a total value of 400 thousand. BGN, donated to two hospitals, of which only material assets worth 39 thousand were reported in the book value of these two hospitals during the inspection of the Inspectorate. lv. The hospitals are in Madan and Kneja. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u125	You'll probably provide Mr. Haytov with the bulk material.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u126	Can I have another 30 seconds, Madame Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u127	That's gonna be a lot. You already have 20 seconds of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u128	RZI "Sofia" following inspections of the Inspectorate "80 thousand." National Council on Prices and Reimbursing in their Reports "Promoting Administrative Activity and Savings in the amount of 221 thousand." lv. National Centre of Transmigration of the Hemographical Scholarship (NHD) optimizes its costs of 1 million. 368 thousand. lv. Cost optimization means the direct removal of corruption overestimates in orders. Emergency Medical Center " 586 thousand." lv. "St. Anna's," "St. Anna's," "cost optimization of 1 million." 590 thousand. BGN, as a result of improved regulations for the purchase of medicines, external services and so on. I can go on, maybe after that, I can say one more thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u129	The line, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u130	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, in fact, with the possibilities of our Rules and the Constitution to carry out parliamentary control in these about three minutes you make an annual report on the activities of such an important unit as the Inspectorate, because it has two functions: on the one hand, its activities act preventively; on the other hand, its purpose is to reveal vicious practices and, as established, criminal practices. Because I had prepared an additional question for myself.............................there have been reports at the Prosecutor's Office, and practically you have already responded by stating that there have been such signals from the Inspectorate not only at the Prosecutor's Office, but even at the DANS, which says that there are corruption practices in your subordinate administration and in some way you are seeking to counteract. I thank you for your answer. I will, of course, get acquainted with the detailed material, but the aim is precisely to get these administrative structures, on the one hand, to assess their activities, but on the other hand to do their job and really act preventively, because my next question to you is to spend public resources. I am particularly sensitive, and I always want to know when public funds are being spent in what direction they are going and whether all the provisions, whether under the Public Procurement Act or other regulations, are being complied with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u131	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u132	I'll allow myself, Madam President, to continue where I came from. Improved financial result of the specialized hospital "St. Sofia" for lung diseases of 80 thousand. lv. as a result of bringing internal acts into line with the regulations. It's a euphemism. Specialized hospital for pulmonary diseases has reduced its costs to BGN 28 895. as a result of the good processes management practices introduced. These are according to the reports of the companies themselves. UMHAL "Pirogov" reported a cost reduction of a total of 8 million. Three hundred and eighty thousand. lv. as a result of new up-to-date regulatory acts in accordance with the current regulations, the specification of contracts relating to rental relations, advisory services, human resources and arrangements for the conclusion of contracts. This is due to inspections, analyses and regulations of the Inspectorate, respectively of the Ministry. All these inspections of companies with more than 50% state participation have been carried out by my order in order to identify indicators for recognition of corruption. What's beautiful is that after checking the hospital manuals, they already have the Inspector's know-how based on everything that's been done so far. For indicators in their own structures they are sometimes quite grocery things, but really the system works. A good practice has been established in relation to the interaction with ADFIs (the State Financial Inspection Agency), the Court of Auditors, the Chief Labour Inspectorate and the NHIF, the NHIF, the KZLD (the Personal Data Protection Commission) who assist the Inspectorate in the performance of their functions. Fighting corruption is important at the legislative level. I hope that anti-corruption legislation will pass very soon in parliament, but the real people who are doing this thing are the ministries' inspectors. They must identify, set up the identification system in order for pό specialized authorities to be able to intervene at the level of their competences. This is perhaps a continuation of our conversation with Dr. Raynov about the salaries these people receive. I read you the figures that are actually figures reserved for the core activity of these medical institutions or for the state and budget of the NHIF. I think the price of this thing is 500 leva, it's incalculable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u133	Next, a question of the National Representative Yavor Haytov concerning the Programme "Mother and Children's Health."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Somehow the three questions: the first to be asked by Dr. Raynov; the second to which you have already answered related to the work of the Inspectorate; and the one I am about to ask you now are joined together. I have already had the opportunity to say that I am particularly sensitive and I am watching how public funds are being spent, whether they are being spent as intended, whether the regulations are being respected. My present question to you is specific and it is as follows: what are the criteria and which hospitals are financed under the Mother and Child Health Programme from the moment you are elected Minister of Health until 8 July 2016? Have medical facilities under the above-mentioned Programme been allocated, which do not have maternity wards for auditory screening of children? If your answer is positive, please inform me: has there been a procedure under the Public Procurement Act and has it been conducted? Who controls the implementation of these contracts, if any, and does there have any unused funds allocated under these programmes? If so, are they recovered and their spending is lawful? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u135	For an answer, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u136	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, first of all, in fulfilling the priorities of the majority actually last year started for the first time the Mother and Child Health Programme. In carrying out the activities under this National Programme, it launched in September 2015. Contracts with public hospitals, hospitals with mixed state and municipal participation in capital, entirely municipal and private hospitals were then concluded. The working plan of the National Programme for the Improvement of Mother and Child Health provides for the development of a mechanism and the introduction of neonatal auditory screening in medical institutions with neonatology structures. It should be borne in mind that, in accordance with the requirements of the health legislation, namely Regulation No 49 of 2010 on the basic requirements to be met by the establishment and activities of medical institutions, in hospitals where there is no neonatal ward or clinic, but there is a maternity structure, it is mandatory to have a postpartum care structure. It's the rules of procedure. For early diagnosis and timely intervention in hearing damage in newborns, funding is provided for the conduct of neonatal auditory screening in maternity and neonatal clinics or wards. The hearing screening shall be carried out on all newborn children, such as newborn infants, on the day before or on which the child is discharged from the maternity, neonatal or clinic, and on premature newborns after reaching corrected, post-conceptual age, on the day before or after the child is discharged from the clinic for the premature. Before carrying out the study, the supervisor or research specialist shall inform the mother or father, the relatives, respectively, of the purpose of screening, including an information brochure describing what deafness is, which are the risk groups. This is specific medical information. The study is carried out in the child's bed or in the delivery room. When carrying out the study, the guardian shall sign the relevant informed consent. The result shall be reflected in the child's I.D. (story of disease), the documents for registration of procedures by clinical pathways and epicrisis reflecting the child's stay and treatment in the compartment, indicating the date of the examination. In the case of identified deviations from the parent's or guardian's normal, instructions shall be given on the need to carry out a hearing check of the newborn up to 7 days after its release by an ENT specialist in a relevant clinic and the instructions shall be reflected in the epicrisis issued by the hospital. This is all part of the contract that the medical institutions signed. The study is carried out by a specialist doctor, a neonatologist, a pediatrician or an ENT, and is allowed to be carried out by a midwife or a health care specialist under the supervision of a specialist doctor, a neonator or pediatrician. In order to ensure the sustainability of the neonatal auditory screening for newborn children in 2015 this year, the Ministry of Health proposed contracts for carrying out neonatal auditory screening for newborns of all hospitals in the country, where there are birth and/or neonatal structures, as the value for carrying out one study is BGN 10. Due to the fact that contracts have been offered to all hospital care establishments with exposed maternity and/or neonatal structures, regardless of their type and property, no selection is necessary, including through a procedure under the Public Procurement Act. From the budget of the National Programme for the Improvement of Mother's and Child's Health are allocated funds to two hospitals, which do not have a maternity ward/clinic, namely the Specialized Hospital for Active Treatment of Children's Diseases. Ivan Mitev " in Sofia and University Hospital "Sv. Marina is in Varna due to their specific status for the treatment of at-risk newborns. They don't have their own maternity ward, but there really does take place in severe perinatal conditions. Indeed, these are the two medical facilities in the country where highly specialised activities are carried out. The contracts are concluded in order to achieve an optimal range of screening and in relation to the requirement that the testing of premature newborns be carried out [[the President signals that time has run out]] After reaching corrected age. There's more to say. Just a second. Last year's funds have been returned from every hospital based on the protocols I told you about as a procedure how many studies have been carried out and thus this thing is paid for. They are once again included in the funding of the Programme for this year. If there's anything else I need, I'll fill you in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u137	A line? Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u138	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, I will not make a specific reply, but I ask you to give me this answer, as you promised you would also give me the detailed answer to my previous question. In a further question in writing, I will specify everything that is not clear to me from the answer you have given me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u139	You're not gonna use the back. Now there is a question of the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov regarding problems in the application of Regulation No 1 of 22 January 2015 of the Ministry of Health for the acquisition of a specialty in the healthcare system. We're listening, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, our inquiry is related to the problems of the application of Ordinance No 1 of 22 January 2015 of the Ministry of Health. Ordinance No 1 of the Ministry of Health for the acquisition of a specialty was in force from 22 January 2015. This Regulation was intended to replace Decree No 34 and regulate all the deficiencies that existed in it. A number of problems have been identified in the application of the above Regulation which make it difficult to implement the objectives set. First of all, according to art. 11, para. 1 training for the acquisition of a clinical specialty shall be carried out on the basis of a fixed contract on the basis of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1, t. 2 of the Full-time Labour Code, in the position of the Specialist. In university hospitals that are most attractive to young doctors, free states are limited or absent at all. In second place, under art. 15, para. 3 of the regulation in question, the remuneration of the specialist shall not be less than the minimum monthly amount of the insurance income for the economic activity concerned and the qualification group of professions determined by the budget of the State Social Security for the calendar year concerned. Many of the university hospitals are in poor financial condition, to put it mildly, and difficult to allocate funds in this direction. In third place, the regulation does not allow PhD students to specialize and vice-versaries to work on their doctorate. In practice, assistants, who are mainly involved in teaching, and PhD students who do research, cannot specialize. In this regard, has the Ministry of Health taken measures to address these problems and, if so, what and what deadlines?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u141	For an answer, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u142	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable gentlemen Kardzhaliev and Ademov! The Ministry of Health reported problems in training to acquire a specialty in the healthcare system, including a high degree of frustration among residents of the terms and conditions of training. As a major problem, it was the specialization against payment that repels young doctors and the lack of a work contract with the medical institution, a training base. That was the welded status quo. For this reason, Regulation No 1 of 22 January 2015 for the acquisition of a specialty in the field of health is adopted the proposal of the Citizens' Initiative Specialization on the basis of a contract of employment guarantees to the fullest extent the rights and obligations, including the specialist in connection with his training in obtaining a specialty, including obtaining adequate remuneration. From the entry into force of Decree No 1 at the end of January 2015 until 15 July 2016, a total of 2034 residents were adopted, of which 870 residents were admitted to university hospitals, which is almost 43% of the total number of residents. This figure clearly shows that university hospitals do not lack state posts for residents and such posts are not a small number. It should be noted that the posts currently employed will be released step by step, as after a successful state examination the person acquires the rights of specialist and can no longer take the post of resident. Accordingly, dismissed resident posts will be able to be occupied by other young doctors who want to continue their studies. It is also important to note that according to the legislation in force.............................................................................................. 180, para. 2, p. 2 of the Health Act, practical training for the acquisition of a specialty is conducted in medical institutions receiving a positive accreditation assessment for the training of students resident, not only in university hospitals. It's a legal text. In accordance with Regulation No 1 the training facilities shall be defined and declared vacant posts as residents of clinical programmes according to their needs and capabilities, including financial Resident seats are announced on an ongoing and year-round basis, as other vacancies on the labour market are announced. The selection of residents is carried out again according to the order of the Labour Code at the discretion of the employer.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's under the Labor Code. The current minimum wage of doctors residents in hospitals, which is equal to the minimum insurance income, is 2.26 minimum wages for the country. This amount is quite close to the minimum remuneration for residents of two minimum salaries for the country, regulated in the already repealed 34th Ordinance of 2006 on the acquisition of a specialty. With regard to the claim that PhD students and assistants cannot specialise, I would like to stress that Regulation No 1 does not in any way create difficulties and obstacles to PhD students and assistants for the start of specialization. They can be trained to acquire a clinical specialty, including a contract of employment in a position of a doctor with a training base, if they successfully pass the selection of the employer as it is. There is no legal obstacle to the position of a doctor a resident to be appointed a doctor, a regular doctoral student or an assistant, i.e. with some scientific career, all the more so that these statuses of PhD students are under very different legislation under the Law on Scientific Degrees and Awards. The Ministry of Health does not have the opportunity to oblige medical institutions, not to mention that there is no desire, to hire a doctor at the post of doctor. Such an opportunity did not exist in the repealed Regulation No 34. It should be borne in mind that the posts of the assistant and the doctor, the resident, are two different posts suggesting different employment obligations and carrying out different activities in their nature. The employment of one office could not automatically lead to the occupation, respectively, of the activities of the other office. Under labour law, however, there is an opportunity for a resident doctor to work on the basis of an additional labour contract under art. 110 and Article 111 of the Labour Code, including as an assistant. It is important to recall that the repealed Regulation No 34 provided for a light regime for assistants and regular doctoral students. Accordingly, the Supreme Administrative Court annulled those Articles of the Ordinance and therefore neither I nor you would plead otherwise. In the light of the foregoing, the Ministry of Health would not be able to reinstate such a regulation as a light regime. I know there's no perfect endeavors. But Ordinance No. 1 of specialization is something that the team of the Ministry... Moreover, this was in close cooperation with the Medical Union, with the Association of Young Doctors. We're really proud of the result. This is an opportunity to introduce a sustainable way of going through a job contract where both you and I and Dr. Raynov have studied under older systems, as they say, we have apprenticed who in whatever way he found fit. There's no pay, and on the contrary, you're paid for your labor. And you are a regular part of this work force with the shifts under the direction of a more experienced colleague, with all the good and bad things related to daily work at a clinic. I dare say, in their huge percentage, young doctors have accepted this regulation well. The point is that there are problems in it. The main problem at the moment is the huge number of residents, which every year, however, decreases according to the old rules. At the moment when they are cleared, I think that this year the last young doctors should finally start specializing in the old conditions to complete their specialization, and the amount of places they will be free for new will be adequate enough and will be able to cycle the number of incoming and the number of exiting from the specialization system under a contract of employment will be relatively equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u143	Two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am sure that you are aware that there is a problem that needs to be solved. Medical establishments which are accredited and entitled to receive residents are experiencing serious financial difficulties. What you mentioned is about BGN 800, along with insurance contributions between BGN 1300 and BGN 1500. By multiplying them by 2000 you realize what financial resources are involved in all medical institutions that are accredited and have the right to specialize in young doctors? More than that. Young doctors who are enrolled as residents cannot sign relevant documents of the National Health Insurance Fund. That's right, you know it very well. On the other hand, don't you think it's absurd the situation where the young doctor may have acquired an educational and scientific degree of Doctor and Doctor of Science without having a clinical degree? The employment contract, which you are talking about under the Labour Code, art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1, t. 2, it is a fixed-term employment contract for performing a particular job. Labour legislation allows for other employment opportunities between an employer and a worker and an employee to enable the inclusion of a doctorate. I know that there is another problem not with the Law on Scientific Degrees and Awards, but with the Law, which is in the system of education for the development of academic staff, academic degrees. The big question here is, if you've been through a tough contest and you've been assigned as a PhD student and an assistant, you can prepare a science job in the meantime, but you can't specialize because specialization should be on an eight-hour working day. How to do one and the other? That's not gonna happen. The second supplementary question I want to ask you from this tribune is, don't you think there might be opportunities when the employment contract under Article has changed? Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1, t. 2 of the Labour Code with another form of labour negotiation, to reach the possibility of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" to assist part of the financing of this specialization? This will also ease the medical facilities, and will unlock the specialization, because of those 2000 people that you mention, about 2000 people, 350 and several cases have been brought under Regulation No 34 of the old order, and there are others that are at least clinical specialities. That is, the announced places at the beginning of July this year are around 1134. This is based on information from the Ministry of Health, you gave it to journalists. From there comes the natural question: can we make it so that at the same time... [[the President signaled that time had run out.]] I'm done, Madam President. ... specializing doctors having the opportunity to conduct their doctorate?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u145	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Minister Moskov, please come in for an answer to the supplementary questions. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Dr. Ademov, I must once again tell you about the question of PhD students. Doctor's degree and scientific career is something other than specialization and day-to-day work on improving a specialty and you as a doctor know it as well as I do. With my knowledge and your knowledge of the Supreme Administrative Court's opinion that the other creates an uneven regime, that is, if you are not a PhD student, you should run your residency one way, and as a PhD student you get some bonus because that is the general philosophy of the Administrative Court's decision. If you have a concrete proposal, I am absolutely ready to include it in the amendment of the Regulation, I don't think we should go to this thing because we are really going to create an inequality. It's one thing to want to work a certain clinical specialty, it's another to look for a scientific career in something. And from the point of view of working relationships, salary and burden on hospitals, of course there is, but we do realize that it is not to the extent that certain hospitals plead for it, because these are people who work. You know that in the decision of the supervision of the cassa specialized doctors are already visible to the cassa. They are part of the contractual process with the Cashier, which was also not the case until last year. Who is signing is not the specific moment, but they are really entering into a contract with the Cashier of this year. Look at the decision of the Cashier. It is under the Human Resources Development Programme that I think we have found a way in which to engage the audience with something very special, but there the possibility of being on a contract of employment excludes the possibility of being supported in a certain way under the Programme. So I think we have found, together with the Social Ministry, a way to be able to help hospitals, was specifically working residents through this Programme in connection with their training. But once again, for me the way for young doctors to be on a work contract as part of their working team with all the good and bad sides, with the sting and with the honey of this profession, is the good way and the fact that it is well accepted by young doctors means that we are on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u147	Thank you, Minister Moskov. Here's Dr. Ademov for attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I know that this new system of specialization is well accepted by young doctors and that is commendable. Because this allows young doctors to stay in Bulgaria, not to seek realization and career development in European countries. This is very important for Bulgarian healthcare. There's another problem. The problem is in medical institutions that are accredited for specialization. They practically appoint residents only to the vacant posts and to those who retire. Another opportunity they will not increase their state. This somehow makes it difficult for young doctors to access because in addition to the fact that one part of them exits the specialization system, young doctors who, if they are not guaranteed the opportunity to specialize, will be difficult to keep in Bulgaria each year. On the other hand, I repeat, there are other forms of labour negotiation again in the form of a contract to enable specialist doctors to exercise their right to be PhD students at the same time. I just asked Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva a question regarding the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber. As long as you study medicine for six years, four more years you are a PhD student, four more years you specialize, and I know that lifelong learning is a Lifelong Learning Strategy "Europe 2020" but these people will be extremely busy, and knowing what doctors' salaries are, including specialists, we need to realize that something needs to change. I am convinced that with the efforts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, with the Ministry of Health and with the Ministry of Education and Science, better solutions can be found in order to alleviate not only specialist doctors, but also medical institutions, which, I repeat, are experiencing financial difficulties.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u149	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Let's move on to the next question. He is one of the MPs Dimitar Tanev, Daniela Saveklieva and Yordan Andonov on a permit for the activity of the Specialized Hospital for Rehabilitation. Here you go, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! On 29 April 2015, your Ministry issued an activity permit No. SB-394 to the Specialized Hospital for Rehabilitation "Petrich" Ltd. for a second level of competence with the scope of Rehabilitation Medicine. On the basis of the same permit, a contract was signed with the Health Insurance Fund on four paths. The specialized hospital for rehabilitation is not a country and there is no contract for rent with the Ministry of Sports for the National Sports Base. The lease with the National Sports Base is concluded with the city of Varna. By virtue of art. 16 of the contract the tenant shall not change the purpose of the property and pass it on to third parties without permission of the landlord. According to our information, such permits are not issued by the landlord. Also, no request for changes has been submitted to Petrich Municipality and no restructuring permits have been agreed and issued. As a result of this permit, the material base of the National Sports Base "Tsar " is used not for the purpose of a small group of mostly elderly people. Petrich's public does not have other such sports facilities. Several hundred children and adolescents have no opportunity to engage in sports. There is also a protest petition from about 3,200 people who are parents and affected citizens to the Minister of Sports. He's not able to solve the matter himself. Therefore, the question to you is as follows: on the basis of what attached documents was issued license No. B394 of the Specialized Hospital for Rehabilitation Is the authenticity of the attached documents verified and is this a prerequisite for draining funds from the Health Insurance Fund?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. Minister Moskov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u152	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Tanev, I will, of course, read the entire answer to the consistency of the checks and results that have been made. Just to say that there are three inspections of RZI, two of the Medical Audit and so on, but contractual relations are such that they do not allow the Minister with a clear understanding of the problem of the city to take any other action. In the Specialized Hospital for Rehabilitation, Petrich is carrying out medical work. The carrying out of a medical activity of the establishment is subject to authorisation, which is issued by the Minister of the Law on Medical Institutions. "Specialized Hospital for Rehabilitation" "Petrich" Ltd. exists under the power of the Authorization No. "SB" 394 of 29 April 2015, which states that the medical activity is carried out at the address of the city of Petrich, ul. "Stazposka" No. 1. The authorisation to carry out a medical activity has been granted on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 in relation to Art. 50, para. 2 of the GLP and after submission of all required documents according to the order of art. 47 of the Regional Health Inspectorate through the Regional Health Inspectorate (HSI), including a certificate for compliance with the requirements of Ordinance No 49 of 2010 on the main requirements to be met by the medical institution, the requirements for the level of competence of Decree No 30 of 2004 for standard "Physical rehabilitation'. The Ministry of Health shall keep a register of medical establishments authorised, which shall be public and shall contain those set out in art. 49, para. 1 of the Act on medical facilities props, including the name of the medical establishment, headquarters, capital, single identification code and single registration number, address of activity, level of competence of the relevant structures, types of medical activities for which the authorisation has been granted. In accordance with art. 50, para. 1 and 2 of the LPD, registered persons are required to notify any changes in the circumstances of the registration carried out within 7 days of their entry, and changes to the circumstances entered in the authorisation, including the address of the activity carried out, shall be made in accordance with art. 46, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 47 of the Law on Medical Institutions. It should be borne in mind that those regulations do not provide for a requirement to verify the legal basis for the use of the premises where the activity is to take place. Maybe this is a pass. On 2 February 2016 in the Ministry of Health received a letter from Mr. Plamen Manolov, Executive Director of the National Sports Base. Because of the fact that it is not clear from the letter of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian National Agency that the hospital has ceased its activities and whether actions have been taken to change the address on which it is carrying out medical work, it was ordered to carry out an inspection by the RZI. In this regard, the earlier administrative procedure for changing the circumstances entered into Permission No 394/29 April 2015 following an application submitted by Dr. Rumen Condev, Governor of the SBR, Petrich., Petrich, with an entry number in the Ministry of Health, was suspended until the case was clarified. Seen from the results provided in the Ministry of Health from an inspection carried out by RZI "Bozgoevgrad" by letter that the SBR "Peteric" Ltd. continues to operate at the same address. On 17 March 2016, in a letter to the Ministry, dr. Condev, Governor of the SBR, Petrich is informing us that, at the time of carrying out the verification by RZI, the lease between NSB and ETNO, as sole owner of the capital of the SBR, Petrich is active. Also, Dr. Rumen Condev explains that at the time of sending the notification letter to the Ministry of Health negotiations are under way between the Ministry of Health and NSB, which concern settlement of the contractual relations between the two countries. In view of the conflicting information from the manager of the SBR and the executive director of the SBNS, because the information does not correspond to the termination of the lease contract, it was requested to carry out a follow-up check by RZI.Bolavgrad to establish the existence of a contract for the use of the premises by the hospital or its termination, including to provide all documents stating the existence and termination of the lease contract between the two companies concerning the operation of an activity by the SBR. "Stazposka" No. 1. Subsequently, by letter from the RZI, Blagoevgrad did not receive a satisfactory answer with regard to the questions asked. On the other hand, in a written opinion on the verification of RZI, Blagoevgrad, the manager of the SBR, Petrich................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The legal documents governing the legal matter for the issue of a permit for carrying out a medical activity do not provide for a requirement to verify the legal basis for the use of the premises where the activity will take place. The termination of the lease agreement, however, constitutes a change in the circumstances of the authorisation granted to carry out the operation of the medical establishment and should be applied by the manager of the medical establishment in accordance with art. Art. 46, para 2 and 3 and art. 47. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 1 of the GLP explicitly regulates the assumptions in which the Minister of Health may withdraw an authorisation for carrying out a medical activity and that provision does not provide for the possibility to withdraw the authorisation if the legal basis for the use of the premises is changed. It should be borne in mind that those regulations do not provide for a requirement to verify the legal basis for the use of the premises where the activity is to take place. Maybe this is a pass. On 2 February 2016, the Ministry of Health received a letter from Mr. Plamen Manolov, Executive Director of the National Sports Base (NSB), Sofia City, informing us of a termination due to non-compliance with basic clauses, a lease contract between the Bulgarian National Institute of Health and the company "ETNO" Ltd., sole owner of the capital of the Bulgarian National Bank of Health. Because of the fact that it is not clear from the letter of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian National Agency that the hospital has ceased its activities and whether actions have been taken to change the address on which it is carrying out medical work, it was ordered to carry out an inspection by the RZI. In this regard, the earlier administrative procedure for changing the circumstances entered into the authorisation No. SB "394/29 April 2015 on an application submitted by Dr. Rumen Condev, Governor of the SBR "Petrich" Ltd, Petrich (incoming number in the Ministry of Health) was suspended until the case was clarified. It is apparent from the results provided in the Ministry of Health from the verification of RZI.. Blagoevgrad, with a letter of some kind, is that.......... Petrich......................................... the same address....................................................................................................................................................................................... On 17 March 2016, in a letter to the Ministry, Dr. Kondev, Manager of the Also, Dr. Rumen Kondev explains that at the time of sending the notification letter to the Ministry of Health, negotiations are under way between In view of the conflicting information by the manager of the SBR, Petrich and the Executive Director of the SBNSB and the Director of the Board of Directors, because the information does not correspond to the termination of the lease contract, it was requested to carry out a follow-up check by the RZI, Blagoevgrad, to establish the existence of a contract for the use of the premises by the hospital or its termination, including to provide all documents stating the existence and termination of the lease contract between the two companies concerning the implementation of an activity by the SBR. Petrich, ul. "Stazposka" No. 1. Subsequently, by letter of the RZI, Blagoevgrad did not receive a satisfactory answer in relation to the questions asked. For its part, in a written opinion on the verification of the RZI, Blagoevgrad, the manager of the SBR "Peteric" informs us that he cannot provide a copy of the contract between the NSB and the NSB with the argument that the NSB's consent was not given for this. The legal documents governing the legal issue of the authorisation for carrying out a medical activity do not provide for a requirement to verify the legal basis for the use of the premises where the activity is to take place. However, the termination of the lease agreement constitutes a change in the circumstances of the authorisation granted to carry out the operation of the medical establishment and should be applied by the manager of the medical establishment in accordance with art. 46, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 47. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions explicitly regulates the hypotheses where the Minister of Health may withdraw an authorisation for carrying out a medical activity and that provision does not provide for the possibility to withdraw the authorisation when changing the legal basis for the use of the premises in which the activity takes place. It should be borne in mind that the rental relations governing the right to use the premises in which the activities of the CBR are carried out, Petrich EOOD, Petrich is a bonding relationship to which countries are the medical establishment and its landlord. In this respect, if there is a dispute between those parties relating to the action or existence of that bond relationship, it should be decided on a common action process. In the light of the arguments put forward, the Ministry of Health entrusted the Agency with a medical audit and, in the relevant letter, to carry out a verification of the circumstances relating to the activity carried out and the terminated contract. Accordingly, a Commission has carried out a verification and a report of findings has been drawn up for the outcome of the verification. The permit is in compliance with the standard, i.e. the CBR "Peteric" fulfills the whole standard "Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine" Dr. Iliya Asenov Popnikolov is listed in this Permission as the manager of the SBR Petrich. In October 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 October 2015 to 31 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u153	Dear Minister, you can present this in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u154	I'll provide it, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u155	You've run out of time, and you've run out of time for your doppelganger. I hope there's no line from the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u156	The only thing I'm going to say is that the only sentence I'm going to have is that I'm not going to have a doppelganger, or I'm going to be running a check on the cassata right now, because of all the documentation that you've seen in the course of the check, in the records of the SBS in question for this summer, that is to say, for the scheduled admission of patients, the standard should be that Peter Moskov with a single disease will go to rejoice for physiotherapy. The records said, for example, that the Petrovi family had a room of 312. From the point of view of the possibility for the NHIF to assess whether there is, because this is part of your question, the harm to the public finance of the RHIF, that is, whether this has been used as something other than a rehabilitation hospital, or just a hotel in your wonderful city, this is to be understood in a check-up and you will be informed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u157	Thank you, dear Minister. You can make a line that won't be answered with your doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, from your several checks, I think it's clear to you that the issue of this permit is not in order. At a meeting with you we commented on this issue and you promised to carry out such an inspection. With the conviction that the documents that have been submitted are either not real or no documents have been submitted at all. Therefore, I ask you to request or refer to the prosecution in order to carry out such a verification of the authenticity of the documents submitted, because according to our inspection, the necessary changes have not been issued according to our information, the necessary agreed with either the Municipality of Petrich or the Ministry of Sports, which is the owner of the base, so that for us this activity and this permit are illegal. Moreover, there are no other such facilities in Petrich. This is one of the five national sports bases and Petric's public, Petrich's people, young people are really seriously damaged. Therefore, I ask you, as soon as possible, to make sure that such an inspection is carried out and, if there are violations, and I believe there is, that the permit be revoked so that the base can be used for its intended purpose. Otherwise there are plenty of rooms in Petrich, you know well, and the building of the new hospital, the old premises of the hospital are standing. We are not opposed to performing such activity, but here because of the interests and whims of a small part of people or of a company are questioned the sport of young people, which we aim from all sides to stimulate. Thank you and we will expect action.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. The next question is from the National Representative Emil Raynov on the obligations of the National Health Insurance Fund to foreign funds and health funds that provided health services to Bulgarian citizens in the European Union. Here you are, Dr. Raynov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, the next question is very short, but it is quite meaningful. We are interested in answering what is the amount of NHIF's liabilities to funds and health funds in the European Union at the moment and what part of them are overdue, respectively what was the amount of these liabilities and their defaults as at 31 December 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u161	Thank you, dear Dr. Raynov. Minister Moskov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u162	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Raynov, I will give a really good answer to the question very briefly, but right now I will give you all the reference from several tables as to how the debts have been moving over the years, what is deferred and what is not. The short answer: as of 30 June 2016 they amounted to 190 thousand. BGN 476. However, in view of this year's report on 30 June 2016, NHIF Central Management on applications of persons insured in the NHIF has been reimbursed for expenditure incurred by them for urgent and urgent assistance in the event of a stay in another Member State of 201 thousand. BGN, or 28,7 of the stakes in the 2016 plan The funds paid by the RHIF to contract partners of the NHIF for medical assistance provided under art. 45 in the Health Insurance Act for foreign insured persons during their stay in Bulgaria, amounted to 1 million. 681 thousand. BGN, or 56% of the stakes in the plan. Payments made to other Member States on outstanding amounts under their claims under the old and new regulations, you know what I'm talking about, total 31 million. 424 thousand. BGN, or 55% of the stakes in the plan. For the period, there were also 1 million. 331 thousand. lv. payments from other Member States under NHIF claims under European regulations. The total amount of expenditure, the order of the rules for coordination of social security systems on 30 June 2012 is 31 million. 975 thousand. BGN, or 53.3 of the stakes in the plan, i.e. for this year we are moving well. Again, the total amount of debt is 190 million. 476 thousand. lv. The reference that I have drawn up for you both tabularly and graphically shows that there has been a gradual increase in this in the years. I have made commitments to the Commission, both I and the President of supervision, and the President of the Cashier, we are looking for a deferral of these obligations with several major countries. To say that Germany has already been achieved, which is one of the main countries to which we have an obligation. An agreement has been reached on the deferral of liabilities and corresponding payment over time, which is within the capabilities of the National Health Insurance Fund. Thank you. Here, I'll leave the whole document. [[Leaves the document on the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u163	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Raynov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, the data you said is true. The small detail is that, as of December 2015, these funds were 136 million. This amount has increased to date to 190 million. It is true that 60 million are at stake this year. lv. for payments to foreign funds. This does not mean, however, that there will be no unpaid items, that there is no default. I remember when from this tribune at the end of last year you and your only fan in this room claimed that the Casa was the first to end without any obligations. At some point, we now understand that these duties stand. Unpaid doesn't mean there's no obligation. I understand you're looking for ways. I understand you're looking for options to cancel the time-payment delay. My only concern is that the foreign funds are already starting to watch what's happening, and I'm worried they'll start refusing to accept our patients. I would not like to think that this is being done intentionally to turn medical tourism towards our southern neighbour Turkey, which also has honest business interests. I hope that's not the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Raynov. A hole? Minister Moskov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u166	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Dr. Raynov, since this is the last question, I will keep the good tone of our parliamentary control today. I'm gonna pass by my ears the speculation you said at the end. Let me once again distract your concerns and if there are any in the people who observe today's parliamentary control, that the relationship between the Bulgarian Fund, NHIF and foreign funds is regular, clear. You see, this year, by the six-month period, we have an absolute coverage of all the needs that the fund provides. It's speculative, it's really speculative. This is the first administration of the Cashier in many years and the first government in many years, which makes real steps to serve, to make contracts for the service of these obligations, which have been held back for many years. Once again, with one of the main countries, the hospitals, the hospitals with which we have contracts, is Germany. This has already been achieved there. We're doing everything we can. Our diplomatic services, the diplomatic services of these countries in Bulgaria, at the level of government, at the level of funds are involved. I mean, you do everything you need to do. Let us not get into the speculation that a certain administration is responsible for such accumulation. It was a surprise to me personally, because I found a huge amount of money accumulated and unpaid. I'm not blaming anyone. That was the solution. The point is that the current debts are being paid, and for the old ones is being sought and a solution is being found to postpone, bearable for the Casa and for the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u167	The register has obligations, not the way they say they don't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u168	The register compared to the current contracts of its contract partners in Bulgaria, respectively hospitals, hospital care and pharmacies, ended last year without obligations. Thank you. [[Reply by MP Emil Raynov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u169	Thank you, dear Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions asked to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. It will answer first of all a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov about the total value of the constructed main building site and auxiliary bases and facilities on the site of the nuclear power plant. Here you are, Mr. Antonov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister! Today, by coincidence, Belene has had a holiday. It is 52 years since it was declared a city. Thirty-four years of these 52 are filled with the aspirations and the creation of the inhabitants of Belene, and not only of Belene, of the district, of Bulgaria, to complete the Atomic Power Plant. Today I am allowing myself to congratulate the residents of Belene on their holiday, and I very much hope that we will give them hope for the final and successful completion of the project. The licensed NPP site is 2450 acres of territory and is surrounded by an external security fence along the entire perimeter and is under permanent armed guard at least until a year and a half ago. The main site is prepared for starting construction works on the Project for the construction of the plant. The Balastrian bases for the two energy blocks are ready. Construction and water supply systems and working lighting are built. There are five construction towers and one goat crane installed. There are also auxiliary bases and facilities that I list: storage facility for the supply of equipment and materials; installation facility with closed production workshops and warehouses intended for pre-mountain preparation of the technological equipment, pipelines, lock-out parts, metal structures and so on; construction facility with all communications for normal operation, including Dear Minister, all the facilities and facilities that I possess, built and located on the site, are talking about a fully completed and operational infrastructure. In this regard, my question to you is also: what is the total value of the constructed main construction site and the auxiliary bases and facilities on the site of the Atomic Power Plant?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u171	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Minister Petkova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, as you mentioned, 34 years our compatriots from the town of Belene are waiting for what will happen to this Project. In this regard, I will begin my answer with a very brief retrospective of the history of this Project. Many of the people may not know that it has begun its start since 1981 and starts with a decision of the Council of Ministers when a site for the construction of a second nuclear power plant is established and begins preparation, engineering utilisation of the site for the construction of the nuclear power plant. In 1990, the Bureau of the Council of Ministers ordered a limitation of construction and in 1991 the construction of the nuclear power plant was stopped and the motive was that there was no financial resource for its realization. It should be noted that the equipment was ordered, paid, manufactured and delivered to Bulgaria by the Russian side respectively. In addition, as you have pointed out, the base of the site was constructed, various warehouses, construction, installation bases, ports, railway infrastructure, concrete plant, administrative building, engineering and communication facilities. In 2004, the Council of Ministers decided, in principle, to build a nuclear plant on the site of Belene, and in 2005 it defined the Nationally Important Project and decided to build a nuclear plant on the site of Belene. On 29 November 2006, NEK signed an Agreement with the public procurement contractor chosen as a result of a public procurement procedure. The parties agreed to enter into negotiations with the aim of concluding a future contract for engineering, supply and construction of NPP Belene. The term for the conclusion of the contract has been extended many times, but it has never reached a final contract for engineering, supply and construction. Nevertheless, Appendix No 5 was signed between the National Electricity Company and the Atomstroyexport on 5 November 2008 to order the equipment with a long production cycle and to translate an advance under this Appendix and the mechanism for its development has already been launched. You know that, as a result of the disputes that were in connection with this process, arbitration has been brought by Atomstroyexport. That arbitration ruled by Decision of 14 June. According to this Decision, the National Electric Company must pay the amount or equipment ordered under Appendix No 5 of 5 November 2008. Currently, the National Electric Company's accounting records bear costs for the construction of the NPP site, which amount to 1 billion. 305 million. 945,000. BGN, and 83 million 859 thousand is the book value of the assets put into operation such as land, buildings, machinery, equipment, furniture and other tangible assets built in their core part in the 1980s and 1990s. What are the costs for the construction of the NPP site, which, as I have already mentioned, amount to 1 billion. 305 million. lv.? These include 124 million. lv. expenditure on acquisition of assets under construction. This is about buildings, infrastructure, facilities. It also includes 63 million. lv. The value of the old equipment, which is under the first project for the construction of the Atomic Power Plant, which should have been bought out by the Atomstroyexport. Under the 2007 Framework Treaty, but, anyway, this has not happened and it continues to be kept in those accounts that account for the costs of the project. In this billion 305 million comes 198 million. lv. costs for the dismantling of existing buildings and structures which were carried out under Appendix 3 of 2008. These are the costs for the destruction of assets which, according to the present vision, would not be integrated into this project. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Three hundred ninety-two million leva are costs related to the activities of the engineer architect, 389 million. lv. for the costs incurred in connection with the Agreement of 29 November 2006. In other words, the actual assets which are put into operation, constructed and introduced are at a book value of 83 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u173	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Antonov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! Thank you for your comprehensive response, although I am convinced that the figures that have been mentioned are not the final ones. They are very low, and given that if we align all the prices of what is an investee on the site, we do not include, of course, additionally, the reactors that are currently and are not yet paid, to date we should add 25 million, which are only interest from 14 June, since the arbitration came out. I hope you are aware of this many times, when I was asking questions during the time of arbitration, that there should be thought and work for the "Belene" because it was clear that the arbitration was two sides, the arguments were drawn and there would have been a solution that was received, but at the same time two and a half months after that we were only compiling one number and we came to the conclusion that we have made great costs. This is true, but here is the time to mention once again what follows with all that has been said as reactors made on the site, which we see for ourselves that it is very expensive and see what we do. What took place quickly after the arbitrage came to Iran, a visit to Iran and the delivery of reactors like Bai Ganyo's muskals from the old days, from Aleko's hero for sale, became clear quickly that it would not happen. You wanted a month's term to build a strategy. I see that there's something going on in the media that's happening and there's some meetings going on, including with the Russian side, but really nothing seems to be coming out so far. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. Now is the time to respond and give perspective to the conversations you are having. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u175	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Would you like to take advantage of the right to the backrest? Here you are, Minister Petkova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, I dare say that I am a responsible person and I insist on treating the necessary seriousness and responsibility to the decisions to be made, to be proposed accordingly, and all these decisions must be very well thought out and very well analyzed. As you have mentioned for 34 years now, this saga with the NPP project is going. You don't think it's very easy to make a decision about such an important issue, do you? If this were so easy, perhaps today the project would have been implemented, since, as early as 2006, when this agreement was signed, on the basis of which the parties agreed that they would continue to negotiate to sign the contract of engineering supply and construction, which would enable this project to be implemented.. The fact that it was not then reached an agreement was not reached to an option that would satisfy both sides means that this is a complex issue. More than that. When we talk about this topic and when we talk about who, how they carry the reactors as muscals, should we go back to 2008 and ask: who gave these two CEOs of the National Electricity Company the right to engage the National Electricity Company and, accordingly, the country's energy system with the signing of this Appendix and the ordering of this equipment with the clear awareness that they do not have a contract for construction, supply and construction?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u177	It's history. What do we do now?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u178	Now, under the terms of the arbitration decision, we are placed in a situation in which we must make a decision, but this decision must in no way be a hasty decision, it must be taken quickly because interest is flowing, but it must not be rushed. We need to think this through. I very much rely here and on the Bulgarian MPs to talk to each of the political forces so that we can take this country's responsible decision with consensus and in the interest that will be fully adequate to the interests of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u179	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Yavor Haytov concerning a problem with electricity supply in Mezdra municipality. Here you are, dear Mr. Haytov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! In the lower stream of Iskar Gorge are located the villages of Zverino, Ignatitsa, Ochin Dol, Zli Dol, Oselna, Elishana and Lyutibrod. They are in Mezdra municipality. Extremely beautiful Bulgarian villages with a great wealth and these are the people. There live exceptional Bulgarians working, honest, responsible. People who really love Bulgaria and their native Vrachan region, but all of them living in the above-mentioned settlements have one common problem. A problem which I, as their MP in the Forty- Third National Assembly, want to solve, Madam Minister, with your help and support, is electricity. These Bulgarian citizens have been abused daily by the electricity supplier through continuous and repeated shut-down of electricity every day, up to ten times a day, five or six times a day. This leads to damage to household appliances and causes great damage to the budgets of families, which, unfortunately, are not particularly large, I would say, are even quite modest. My question to you is: what does the Ministry of Energy do to overcome this problem? I would like to inform you, and you probably know that the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, to which you are a member, has been informed about this problem by letter, which is registered by letter. No 1096 of 2015, as well as 11 July 2016, and control authorities and regulatory authorities should be involved in solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u181	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Minister Petkova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u182	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Haytov! At the beginning of my reply, I would like to thank you for your question. It is very relevant, given that very soon the preparation of the three electricity distribution companies in relation to the upcoming autumn-winter season is to be finalised. So the question you are asking is very up-to-date and timely, all the more so that as far as you are concerned, we have already carried out several inspections, which I will now give you a detailed overview of. The Ministry of Energy is familiar with this case, which undoubtedly creates exceptional difficulties. In February this year on the basis of art. 75, para. 1 of the Energy Act, I ordered the implementation of a complex check of the CEZ distribution of Bulgaria, Mezdra operational center, on the technical condition of the energy sites in these territory. The checks identified irregularities which are a serious prerequisite for the poor quality of electricity supply in the region. On the basis of art. 80, para. 4 t. 1 of the Energy Act by letter of 12 March 2016 was given mandatory prescriptions to the CEZ distribution of Bulgaria to address the deficiencies found on the electricity distribution network low and medium voltage. Within six months from the date of receipt, the company undertakes to notify the Ministry of Energy of the implementation of the mandatory regulations and to provide evidence thereof. As the deadline for implementing the mandatory prescriptions expires in September, by letter dated 19 August 2016, the Ministry of Energy requested information on the identified irregularities and the remaining volume of repair and service activities related to the findings of the verification. In its reply, the company informed us of the implementation of the mandatory prescriptions, stating that almost all detected irregularities were removed or will be removed by the end of the deadline set for removal on 23 August 2016. Regarding the 15 highly corroded iron poles located on the Rashov Dol airline, the company informed that some of the irregularities were removed and a project submitted to Svoge Municipality for building a whole new route for this area, which will avoid the risk sections of the existing one, was drawn up for the rest. To conclude, I would like to add that during this month, the Ministry of Energy has launched checks on the preparation of energy companies for the upcoming autumn-winter season and, in the framework of these checks, we will re-check the signal provided by the residents of these villages. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u183	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Haytov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line will be brief. I am in constant contact with the mayors of these villages, as I said already wonderful Bulgarian settlements. They come from different political families with different political decorations. There are also from GERB, from the Socialist Party, of course, there are also from the People's Union. But this common problem of theirs somehow involved me. I would like to ask you, after the expiry of this six-month period, which is actually coming to an end, to accept that we arrange a meeting so that people are informed and on the ground that the administration, in this case the ministry, is doing its job as far as your powers and capabilities are concerned, but I ask you to be critical to the electricity supplier CEZ, because, once again, the problem is not that people are in the dark for a certain period of time. The problem is, they're burning their electrical appliances. They become impossible to use and people cannot afford to buy electrical appliances again, radio cassettes, TVs, water heaters and so on. So this multiplies the problem, and I ask you to approach this issue as responsibly and critically as possible to resolve it. I am convinced that CEZ Bulgaria can do their job. I am aware that this is also about investments, but if this problem is not resolved without sounding threatening, I will make the effort to request a reference whether they implement their investment programme, because it seems to me that some of our politicians, who very often pass in the field of populism, are right that some companies, without sharing them into foreign, Bulgarian, registered in offshore areas or wherever, have a commitment to their investment programme, and it is not always implemented and it is not always at the expense of consumers. Please, I wish that in October we could boast of solving this problem and of the inhabitants of these wonderful villages Zverino, Ignatitsa, Schodin Dol, Evil Dol, Oselna, Elishana, and Hot Ford to be solved this domestic problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u185	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Come in for a line, Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u186	Thank you. Dear Mr. Haytov, as you mentioned, and this is where you started to see people living in these villages who are sympathetic to different political parties, I would like to tell you this. For us, for the government, for the Ministry of Energy, this has absolutely no meaning at all who sympathizes with which political party. We work only in the interests of the people. I want to assure you that all our efforts are aimed at where there are problems, to resolve them in due course. So this could not at all be the subject of any comment or any separation regarding our relations and treatment of the citizens of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u187	I'm talking about the mayors of the villages.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u188	Yeah. We do our jobs the way we should and we work in the interests of people. I'm using this case to assure you that I will personally go to the site in the framework of these inspections, which are now pending and will check what CEZ has fulfilled from the instructions, from the prescriptions that we have given and will meet on the spot with the people there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u189	Thank you, dear Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions addressed to Nikolai Nenchev, Minister of Defence. First he will answer a question from the MP Yavor Haytov about the state of Land Forces. Here you are, dear Mr. Haytov, for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u190	Before you leave the Chamber, Madam Minister, I would be happy to welcome you to the Vratsa region as we have done before. Have a good job! Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! By decision of the National Assembly, we agreed to acquire a multifunctional modular patrol ship and a new type of patrol plane. They only concern modernisation of the Navy and the Air Force. Minister, the backbone of the army is the infantry. Land troops are the most numerous, and in any event, whatever they take, if they do not modernise the technical condition of land troops, everything else is useless and futile. Therefore, my question to you is: do you foresee a renewal of the technical facilities at the disposal of the Land Forces in the Bulgarian Army? If yes, what are your plans, in what deadlines can this happen, is it in line with the budget opportunities so that your intentions and our intentions do not remain only a piece of paper without any positive consequences for the Bulgarian Army? I hope that you are aware that the answers that you will give on dates and possibly as planned amounts of expenditure will remain in the public domain, will be monitored and, last but not least, the servicemen themselves will expect technical modernisation as soon as possible. I also say this in the spirit of the forthcoming adoption of a second reading of the Law on Counterterrorism, as Land Forces should be most involved in these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u191	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Come in for an answer, Minister Nenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u192	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Haytov, thank you for your question. The assembly of high-military military-level combat equipment in accordance with the current requirements for combat efficiency and protection, comparable to the anological models of armaments in NATO member states, is the main objective of the defence policy led by the Ministry of Defence. According to the Strategy for the Development of Defence Skills and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020, the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces by 2020, the Land Forces must have three battalion groups of the mechanized brigade built and prepared. The investment project for the construction of battalion battle groups is among the priorities of the Ministry of Defence. The need to acquire combat and special equipment and equipment for the assembly of three battalion groups is dictated primarily by the tasks put before the Land Forces on the three missions of the Armed Forces. Battalion battle groups are integrated tactical military formations to conduct operations on the three missions. The implementation of the investment project will replace part of the technological and physically outdated and depreciated fighting and special equipment of Land Forces. The total cost of capital for the acquisition of equipment, equipment and logistics, including their maintenance, amounts to 1 billion. 200 million. lv. Taking into account the country's current economic situation, the process of acquiring defence products can be carried out in steps with the provision of 100 million each. lv. annual for 12 years. In this way, a battalion group of fighting machines will be completed in two years and three battalion battle groups will be ready for use by 2023. The complete assembly will be completed by 2028 when the battalion battle groups of the Land Forces will be able to carry out all tasks according to their stated intentions and capabilities. The integrated logistical support of military and special machinery is planned to be carried out by Bulgarian companies, which will result in lower financial costs and greater reliability for maintenance. An updated investment spending project is to be submitted to the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly, which I believe will take place within this or next month. Finally, I would like to thank you for this issue and to say that in my talks with the parliamentary groups, a large part of the MPs have expressed concern and support, which gives me hope that despite the considerable financial resources required, the project, as you have mentioned, will not remain on paper alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u193	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Haytov, come in for a reply to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, we from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian National Union are positive people and with colleague Kancho Filipov, who is also a member of the Defence Committee, have said many times that we really need investment in this sector, especially for Land Forces. But I understand from your reply that a minimum of 100 million will be provided for the 2017 budget. lv. for the modernisation of Land Forces. This was the information I received from you, and we, entering the budgetary procedure, will monitor all that is happening to ensure and vote by the National Assembly these funds to begin in stages, as I have developed my response to you, and the backward process of modernization with modern and new technical modern facilities of the Bulgarian Land Forces. I had the opportunity to see how Bulgarian citizens loved their army and saw it when the unit in Vratsa was closed. Then spontaneously citizens protested, in no way unrelated and unoccupied with political and party biases. In the same way, I saw their joy when this unit was found again. However, it needs modernization, a new technique. I am confident that you will do everything in your ability, such as authority, to modernize the Land Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u195	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u196	Mr. Haytov, thank you, too. As promised and restored the unit in Vratsa, we will make this project possible. Thank you for the particularly up-to-date question. You have very rightly mentioned the land troops to which I remain in debt and say it with all my responsibility. You are right because we are taking the serious burden today on the Bulgarian border, on fire extinguishing. The necessary technique is available, but it is now indeed old, depreciated, with smaller possibilities. I believe that these projects will contribute not only to be combatable, but to be ready to respond to the needs of citizens in disasters and accidents, such as our third mission. Thank you. I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u197	Thank you, dear Minister. The last question to you is from the National Representative Kancho Filipov on the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, dear Mr. Filipov, for the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Nenchev! In 2015, the National Assembly adopted a Programme for the Development of the Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020. The Council of Ministers adopted a Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces by 2020. The implementation of the Plan is an exclusive responsibility of the Ministry of Defence and determines the development of the Armed Forces of Bulgaria by that period 2020. Although we are still at the beginning of the implementation of the Plan, I think it is particularly important to get acquainted with the planned concrete measures by the Ministry and the implementation of the first steps of the Plan. My question to you is: what are the results of the implementation of the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Minister Nenchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House, Dear Mr. Filipov! Let me first of all thank you for the support that the Ministry of Defense and the Armed Forces have received all this time we have been working together. I'll answer your question specifically. The Plan reflects the parameters, events and deadlines for the successful implementation of the policies in the field of defence and the reorganization of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is envisaged that the development and reorganization of the Armed Forces by 2020 will take place in two main stages. From 2016 to the end of 2018 and from 2019 to the end of 2020. During the first stage, the main activities for the development of the Armed Forces are aimed at stabilizing the defence and in the second stage at modernisation and restructuring. At present, the events set out in the first stage of the Programme relating to the optimization of the structure of the Armed Forces and the launch of some of the priorities set are being implemented. The structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence were reorganized structures from the military education system, the Military Information Service, the Military Medical Academy and the Central Military District. The Bulgarian Army mainly reorganized the structures at the technical level as follows: First, Joint Command of Forces, where the structures of brigades were optimized With Ministerial Order No 182 of 18 July 2016, amendments were made to the Plan aimed at shortening the time limits for reorganising the structures of the Armed Forces and the deadlines for developing existing and building new capabilities, according to the.............................................. the defense capabilities of the Armed Forces 2020..................................................................................................................................................................................... By the end of the year it is planned to open a section for vocational training at the Centre for Professional and Support Training at the National Military University Vasil Levski, the information system "Logistics" of the Bulgarian Army also, the Joint Force Command, and the brigade "Special Forces" will be resigned from the commander of the Land Forces to the Chief of Defence. By decision of the National Assembly of 2 June 2016 two of the events were adopted, namely the investment projects requiring a decision of the National Assembly. The project "Acquiring a new type of combat aircraft" is at the stage of preparation of a contract under the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and the project for acquisition of a multifunctional modular ship for the Naval Forces at the stage of preparation of the documents. During the first stage of the construction and development of the Armed Forces, the financial insurance is agreed and is carried out under the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The updated medium-term budget forecast for the period 2016 - 2018 will also be implemented according to the pre-set parameters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u201	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Filipov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u202	Mr. Minister, thank you for your specific answer, for your general wishes. Indeed, in my opinion, the beginning of the implementation of the Plan for the Development of the Armed Forces gives us confidence that it will apply further and we will keep the time set in this plan. Accept my confidence that we in the Commission will support you in terms of budgetary parameters for the implementation of this Plan. I hope that the next period will keep the pace of implementation of the Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-02.u203	Thank you, Mr. Filipov. You won't take advantage of your right to dodge, Mr. Minister. This was the last question for Minister Nenchev. We thank you for answering the last question and also for participating in today's parliamentary control at all. I'm adjourned today's session. The next meeting is on 7 September 2016, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
