ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! Registration mode. We don't have a quorum. I ask the parliamentary secretaries, along with the Quaestors, to check the quorum in the Chamber. 9:15. A second attempt to register. Found at 9:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u2	Registration regime, honourable Members. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Before we proceed to work on our Programme, one message: on 30 June 2016 a Report on the state of administration was submitted to the National Assembly in 2015. For information adopted by Decision No 534 of the Council of Ministers of 2016. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We're moving on to work on our agenda. The next item is: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. The report of the Committee on Education and Science will introduce us to the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Milena Damyanova. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u3	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House, honourable Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! Before that, allow me to do a procedure for admission in the hall of Emilia Valchovska.. Head of the Department of Professional Education and Education...........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u4	We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Milena Damyanova. They voted 109 MPs: 106, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite the face to the hall. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u5	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 602-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2016. At its regular meeting on 22 June 2016, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 602-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2016. The meeting was attended by: by the Ministry of Education and Science: Diyan Stamatov, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Emilia Valchovska, Head of the Department of Professional Education and Education at the Department of Education and Education, Mrs. Rumyana Kostadinova, State Expert in the Department of Professional Education and Education at the Directorate of Educational Programs and Education, Mrs. Diana Traykova, State Expert in the Department of Law; Mrs. Emiliana Dimitrova, Chairman of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training; Mrs. Stefka Lymanska, Head of Department of the Department of Labour Market and Labour Mobility at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy; representatives of trade union and employers' organisations from the public education system. The Committee on Education and Science has received an opinion on the Bill from the Bulgarian Industrial Association, as well as an analysis of the state of vocational education and training and proposals for its optimization. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Dian Stamatov. The bill is implemented in accordance with § 32 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Pre-school and School Education Act. The main objective of the bill is to synchronize school vocational education and training with the overall system of pre-school and school education. The bill proposes the following amendments and additions: - changes in the qualification training requirements for students and persons over 16 years of age, ingoing minimum qualification level, duration of training and output minimum qualification level; - professional schools and training centres are deleted; - the status, conditions and arrangements for opening, closing and conversion of professional colleges are laid down; - the objectives, characteristics and types of professional training are defined; - the ratio of theoretical and practical training to the benefit of practical, including training in a real working environment; - the completion of vocational education and training and the documents to be issued during the acquisition of secondary education in accordance with the provisions of the Pre-school and School Education Act; - the procedure for issuing the documents for acquired professional qualifications issued by professional colleges and vocational training centres is laid down; - provision is made for the issuance by the Minister of Education and Science of the Ordinance on the organisation and conduct of state examinations for the acquisition of professional qualifications; - the powers of the Minister of Education and Science on maintaining a public register of professional colleges and exercising control over their activities are expanded; - The National Agency for Vocational Education and Training undertakes to maintain an electronic system of documents issued by the vocational training centres; - the functions of the municipalities in the opening, transformation and closure of the municipal vocational schools and colleges, as well as the appointment of directors of these schools. In the course of the discussion, the MPs agreed that the proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training synchronizes vocational education and training with the provisions of the Law on Pre-school and School Education. Aspiration for improving the quality of vocational education and training was noted by changing the ratio of theoretical and practical training in favour of practical. Specific texts of the Bill were commented with a view to their precision. Following the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 602-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2016, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u6	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government will introduce us to its president, National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u7	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science! ♪ I can't believe on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 30 June 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2016. Mr. Diyan Stamatov took part in the meeting of the Commission and Mrs. Emilia Valchovska, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Mrs. Emil Savovska, Head of the Department of Professional Education and Training at the Department of Education and Education and Education and Mrs. Emil Savov, Deputy Director of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Dian Stamatov. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training was developed in accordance with § 32 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Pre-school and School Education and refers to the provisions of the Law on Vocational Education and Training in accordance with the Law on Pre-school and School Education. The main objective of the bill is to synchronize school vocational education and training with the overall system of pre-school and school education, to introduce new additional opportunities for acquiring professional qualifications in relation to the new structure of the middle-grade education. The proposed amendments and additions shall optimise the organisation of the training process in the vocational education and training system. The status and activity of professional colleges, which with the adoption of the Law on pre-school and school education are no longer part of the school system, ensuring their functioning according to the new regulations. The opportunities for vocational education and training for students and persons aged 16 years are extended by introducing new incoming and outgoing educational and qualification levels. It is envisaged to change the ratio between theoretical and practical training in favour of practical training, including practice in a real working environment, which will lead to an increase in the quality of vocational education and training. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law provide an opportunity to extend the opportunities for vocational training to students with special educational needs and to students in schools in prisons. The functions of the municipalities as regards the opening, transformation, change and closure of municipal vocational schools and professional colleges, as well as the appointment of directors of municipal vocational schools and professional colleges shall be completed. The Commission received an opinion on the draft Law from the Bulgarian Industrial Association, accompanied by an analysis of the state of vocational education and training, and proposals for its optimization. During the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the need to adopt the proposed changes, as they are in line with the new Law on pre-school and school education. In addition, it has been stressed that in terms of a significant part of the municipalities in the country by improving the system of vocational education and vocational training, the necessary qualified staff will be able to be provided to improve the conditions for investment and employment provision. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 9 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u8	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Moving on to the next report. He is from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Here you go, Mr. Cholakov. Maybe on a resume. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u9	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 602-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2016. On behalf of the importer, the draft was presented by Deputy Minister Diyan Stamatov, who informed the MPs that the main purpose of the proposed amendments and additions is to synchronise vocational education and training with the overall system of pre-school and school education, in accordance with the adopted and effective Law on pre-school and school education. In the course of the discussion, the MPs agreed that the proposed amendments and additions are necessary for the purpose of regulatory provisions governing vocational education and training to be brought into line with the Law on pre-school and school education, which takes effect from 1 August 2016, stressing that in the process of drafting it is a completely new Law on vocational education and training, which will set itself the goal of building a modern, well-functioning system. On the basis of the discussion and the vote held by 11 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u10	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. Next, honourable Members, a report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Who from the Commission will present the report? Mr. Peter Kanev, Chairman. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u11	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 602-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2016. At its regular meeting on 29 June 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training. The meeting was attended by Diyan Stamatov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, and Evgenia Kostadinova, Director of the Educational Programs and Educational Content Department. The bill presented by Deputy Minister Dian Stamatov was developed in accordance with the provision of § 32 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Preschool and School Education Act. The main objective of the bill is to synchronize school vocational education and training with the overall system of pre-school and school education. The bill proposes amendments and additions concerning: - the requirements for the organisation in the system of vocational education and training; - institutions in the system of vocational education and training; - the content of vocational education and vocational training. The Law introduces new requirements for the acquisition of professional qualifications for students and persons over 16 years old. The requirements for state standards for the acquisition of professional qualifications are regulated. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee received an opinion from the Bulgarian Industrial Association in support of the Bill. On behalf of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria Ivelin Zhelyazkov also supported the bill. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 602-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. That's how the committee reports are exhausted. On behalf of the importer, would you like to say a few words? No. Thank you. My fellow Members, I am opening the debates on the proposed bill. Assoc. Prof. Velikov was the first to say a wish to speak. Here you are, Mr. Veliv. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science, honourable Members! It is undisputed that vocational education and training is one of the keys to the economic revival of our holding, of our homeland, and in this sense the bill under consideration amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training is undoubtedly necessary and timely. I will not dwell on all the merits of this Bill prepared by our Ministry and the Council of Ministers, only to note, as usual, although the first vote is related to the spirit of the Law and we of the Reformation bloc will support it, however, between the first and second votes could be made some proposals. There is already a working group under the leadership of President Milena Damyanova, the Reformation bloc also has prepared some proposals that will be put to your attention. Of course, we will strive to limit ourselves within the framework of the Bill itself and that we should have ended by the end of this session in plenary with the second vote. Here, for example, some of the proposals. With regard to the audit and recommendations of the Court of Auditors' audit report on the topic of professional employment education, we would suggest introducing an opportunity for employers to offer new professions and specialties for inclusion in the list under art. 6 of the Law, because now this is only the right of industry ministries. We think it would be helpful. Of course, § 3.. the protected specialties and professions. This is where the lyrics should be refined. Or § 4.. the possibility of obtaining a second degree of professional qualification for the persons who have graduated from the tenth grade under the current Law on People's Education, which in less than a month, already at the end of this month, will end its validity. The possibility of the number of examinations carried out for the acquisition of qualifications where competence is required for the exercise of the profession. This is § 42. Perhaps to consider once again whether it is correct as in § 47, t. 3 The powers of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training shall be revoked to participate in the development of state educational standards and requirements, whether or not to restore this power. Paragraph 74 on the implementation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training shall be reduced to six months in accordance with the requirements of the Law on Regulatory Acts. There are many other situations that are right to discuss. It is impressive that the current Law lacks administrative-criminal provisions. Perhaps we should also consider this, since it is not rare that vocational training centres with a revoked licence continue to train and produce professionals without even being able to fine them or the relevant authority to fine them. In this bill, at the moment we are looking at, the status of professional colleges is arranged, but the state integrated professional colleges that would be useful for less developed areas in the country, as it is, let's say, our Northwestern region, this text in this Bill has dropped out, but perhaps in a future common new law devoted to the problems of vocational education and training, this should be noted, to be written. So we will expect and help, of course, the creation of a new project, a comprehensive new Law on vocational education and training. Perhaps during our autumn-winter season this new Law will be drawn up with the combined efforts of our Ministry, the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training, vocational schools and high schools, entrepreneurs and their organizations, of course, students and parents. This Bill is a proper first step in solving the problems of vocational education and training, and I propose that we support it unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u14	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. Anyone want a line? I won't. For the next speech, the People's Representative Bunjamin Hassan, the DPS Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, Mr. Hassan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Professional education and training, of course, has been the focus of public attention for years. This is because in an environment of dynamically developing markets, of the intensive deployment of new technologies, of new productions, it is normal that the focus should also be on the quality of the workforce. This problem is not only a problem in Bulgaria. On a European scale, these problems are also identified, they are analyzed, strategies adopted, legal documents adopted to help solve these problems. In the strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, Europe 2020, three of the objectives are directly related to vocational education and training. It aims at 75% of the European Union population to have employment and realization, to reduce to 10% the share of young people dropped out of the education system, 40% to be the share of young people up to 34 years of age with higher education, so that both at national level and at European level, as I said, a number of legislative and other measures have been taken, projects have been implemented to help solve this problem. Not all problems are solved. There are many challenges. As the recently submitted audit report by the Court of Auditors underlined, the Ministry of Education and Science has not yet taken sufficient steps to ensure the quality of vocational education and training, both with regard to the regulations and the practical implementation of the decisions taken. The Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Vocational Education and Training has one main purpose and this is to synchronize the Law on Vocational Education and Training with the Law on Pre-school and School Education in relation to the adopted changes in the entire school education system. My fellow Members and I will support this bill at first reading. We think that this is a legislative step in the right direction to further enable both the Ministry of Education and Science and employers' organisations and institutions in vocational education and training, as well as students and parents with joint efforts to improve the quality of vocational education and training in order to meet the expectations of the Bulgarian economy more and more adequately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hassan. Do any of your colleagues want a line? There aren't any. The next speech is from the MP Krasimir Bogdanov. Next up is Mariana Boyadjieva. Mr. Bogdanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u17	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! It is apparent from the reasons presented by the importers and the reports of the relevant committees that the main objective of the bill is to synchronise school vocational education and training with the requirements of the coming into force from 1 August 2016. Law on pre-school and school education. However, it is a much more important task to create such a legal basis to bring vocational education to the main priority of the Bulgarian education system. In recent years, students' interest in the opportunities to acquire a profession that gives secondary education has decreased sharply. Attracted by factors side to the educational process, such as shiny school buildings, admission to innovative schools and classes with modern names, more and more children are being redirected to general schools. As a result, whole sectors are already exposed to medium-sized technical personnel, the business is experiencing huge difficulties in finding qualified labour, the lack of which is seriously affecting the opportunities for attracting investments in Bulgaria. On the other hand, underappreciated by parents and children remains the possibility of finding a job that gives vocational education, unlike general education. This requires urgent action in support of vocational education and the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education, without solving the whole problem, is a step in this direction. It proposes changes in the training requirements for the acquisition of professional qualifications for students and persons over 16 years of age, the minimum level of qualification, the duration of training and the minimum level of education output, the ratio of theoretical and practical training to the benefit of practical, including training in a real working environment that can be carried out on the way of training through work, the so-called dual training. The status and funding of the relevant vocational schools, which can be state, municipal and private, is defined and which of them, such as sports schools can be state and municipal, arts schools are compulsory state schools. Certain specialties of professions may be validated as protected by the State and at the regional level. Institutions in the system of vocational education and educational institutions who are entitled to conduct training for the acquisition of professional qualifications are specified. These are vocational schools, professional colleges, arts schools and vocational training centers, sports schools, spiritual schools, schools in prisons, special schools, united, secondary schools, vocational schools, evening schools and special schools for training in support of students with sensory disabilities in individual classes. The forms of training for persons aged 16 years have been laid down for persons who have reached a daily, evening, incomplete, individual, remote and training through work, as we have already mentioned, a dual education system. With these amendments and additions, ladies and gentlemen, it is definitely coming out of the theorizing regarding the future of vocational education and looking for rational and working solutions in favour of production, employers and future workers who are able to qualify and receive remuneration during their training. Clearly, there are no disturbing moments in the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Vocational Education. Some shocks may cause those references to the Preschool and School Education Act that affect vocational education. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training was developed in accordance with a provision of § 32 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Pre-school and School Education. The references I mentioned to the Law on pre-school and school education concern the following points: the state and municipal professional high schools which have been introduced into force of the Law continue to carry out their activities as state, respectively, and as municipal, under art. 38, para. 2, p. 2. By 1 November 2016, the Council of Ministers shall, on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, announce by a decision the state and municipal schools which are of national importance within the meaning of art. 38, para. 9 of this Law. With the decision under para. 2 municipal schools are declared state schools. With effect from 1 January 2017, the public schools, with the exception of the public schools referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, the auxiliary schools and the schools of art. 43, namely special schools, Bulgarian schools abroad, schools to prisons, schools established under international treaties, as well as schools of arts, culture and public sports schools are state-owned. All others become municipal schools and are financed by the budget of the respective municipalities. To a particular extent, this applies to agricultural schools which are established on a regional basis and serve the needs of technical staff in a particular region. With their transition to municipal subordination, they are called into question in the light of several circumstances: the gap in the need for staff in the respective profession of the municipality and the region; unfair competition between schools in carrying out the reception; various political and economic interests at local level and the possible interference of local authorities and municipal councils. It is no secret, ladies and gentlemen, that the municipal councils participate, of course, directors and teachers from relevant educational institutions. I can say that as a personal experience, there are not few cases where this unfair struggle for students, which is taking place at local level, leads to work to close down certain schools in order to attract students to other schools. The withdrawal of the State and the granting of the powers entirely at local level creates prerequisites for the closure of such educational establishments. This can lead to imbalance and negative effect on the preparation of qualified staff in certain professions. Currently, professional schools can move from state to municipal. This is done by order of the Minister of Education and Science after the mayor's proposal and sanction of the municipal council, so that the municipalities who had an interest in acquiring these state vocational schools and becoming municipal have already done so. Do we now have to oblige them to become owners of these schools? In this direction, I can give an example from my constituency. In the early 1990s, the Technicum of Construction and Architecture was the most reputable vocational school in the region and with only such a focus for the entire Vratsa region. He was realizing a reception of eight classes per class, and he had more than a thousand students trained in it. The demographic crisis also affected this school indisputably, but not only in such large proportions, as this thing happened to other educational institutions. A few years ago, a decision was made by the Municipal Council that this school would become from a public private school and was united with two other schools. Now, we've come to the situation that two years ago, three classes of the 19th grade ended, and the last two years have ended one. The reception is done every year at the minimum of 18 students, currently there are only four classes in this school, i.e. here is the negative example. I'm not saying that this is a mass practice and that this is how it will work with all the schools that become from state municipal, but here is a negative example of how a school can, which is extremely prestigious, reputable and with a very large filling rate of classes, get to the point where there are only four classes in the current and last year and move towards closure, naturally. When I say this, I mean, however, that construction and architecture are still prestigious professions in Bulgaria. And we have not few examples in this direction. Let's say, in Veliko Tarnovo, in Burgas, in Montana there are such professional schools of construction and architecture, which are attractive, where they teach extremely many children and continue to prosper. And against the backdrop of the construction boom that we had before the 2008 crisis, I think it is not normal for a school to undergo such a serious transformation and collapse. Dear Minister, we are counting on you to consult with the Board of Education and Science in the implementation of the Law on Vocational Education and designation of schools of national importance. Members of the Commission have proven expertise and can be useful. We also have the bitter experience of less than a year ago when we adopted the Preschool and School Education Act. Many of the compromises that we in the Patriotic Front made were after the Ministry's promise that our opinion will be consulted when preparing the curriculum and programs. You know what cataclysms caused the lack of consistency in terms of the latter, which led to resignations, and serious turmoil in the Ministry of Education and Science. I rely very much on your dialogue, which you have demonstrated so far, and I think it will not happen again as a broken phone between the Ministry and the portfolio committee. Our opinion will indeed be appreciated and taken at least with regard to the future of vocational education. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front, I declare my support at first reading of the Law on Vocational Education and Training and with our proposals between the two readings for changes to this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u18	Thank you, Mr. Bogdanov. About 35 seconds, you still have group time. If you wish, the time of the group may be extended. You don't want to. We continue with the speech of the MP Ms. Mariana Boyadjieva. You have the floor, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Without a doubt, we need to consider a bill to make the necessary changes, given the need to synchronise with the Preschool and School Education Act. From the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria we are of the opinion that it is late.. It should be ready for May 1st, but at the same time we are dramatically close to the deadline, which you, ladies and gentlemen of government, predicted for the start of the Preschool and School Education Act........................................................................ We warned repeatedly in both the Committee on Education and Science and the Parliamentary Tribune about the risks the Bulgarian education system could face given the haste to implement the new Law. It is a fact that it is not clear yet from the Ministry whether it is ready at least in the public space that this is not known. The state educational standard for vocational education, which is fundamental in order to implement the Law that we are discussing today. It is specifically provided for in § 4, point. 2 with the creation of a new para. 5 for state educational standard. Next, we must point out that we need both changes and the creation of conditions for the development of vocational education, and serious, thorough, discussed, and not as stated in the experts' opinion, including applied in the Permanent Committee on Education and Science as an opinion of the Bulgarian Industrial Association that in fact this Law provides only cosmetic changes. Once again, at the very beginning of my speech, I would like to stress that the draft in question today actually follows the existing situation in education and does not look forward to what is expected of the Bulgarian society. The admission plan for vocational education and training will now continue to be tailored to the strategies for the development of municipalities and districts in Bulgaria, and in fact we believe that there should be compliance with the national economic priorities that we currently do not have de facto. Moreover, in terms of the development of vocational education should be viewed for four or five years in view of what is necessary for the development of Bulgaria's economy. Studies currently present in the country's public space show that the state-adopting plan is not based on a study of the needs for training in priority economic directions, there is no system for medium-term and long-term forecasting of the needs of qualified staff at regional and sectoral level to be linked to the adoption plan in professional high schools. The fact is that about 65% of employers say they have a serious problem finding staff with secondary vocational education. The shortage of about 170 professions in the country is deepening. In 12 years, the number of students in professional high schools decreased by about 30%. There is no information system adapted to the needs of students with a database on the peculiarities of the labour market. In this regard, sufficient examples can be given. I'll allow myself to offer your attention to two of them. It is likely that in years' time, we will need medium-sized specialists in the field of biotechnology. Will municipalities, however, which will bear the primary responsibility for a professional high school admission plan, provide for example specialities in view of the development strategies of the respective municipality or district? Another example is the missing footage in the field of machine building. For years it has been said that there are not enough welders in Bulgaria, but they go outside because there they receive more wages than in Bulgaria. In my opinion, at this stage, the state is running out of responsibility precisely from the point of view of complying with the national and economic priorities to be taken into account in the planning of vocational education and training. Next, one of the important issues that we have repeatedly commented on, including when discussing the Preschool and School Education Act, are the state's commitments to vocational schools. It is clear that the tendency is for vocational schools to become more and more the main responsibility of municipalities. And if their fate is linked to the labour market in the production of a municipal school in a municipality, that basically means that in all municipalities where there is not a sufficiently well-developed labour market, there are no serious large enterprises, these schools have no good prospects for development and some of them can be closed in the coming years. I believe that this will probably be economically profitable and correct, but prospectively.......................................................................................... Today again the fate of professional high schools in the field of agriculture and food industry is commented. The fact is that regardless of the procedure provided for in the Law and the procedure launched by 74 professional high schools in the field of agriculture, some of them with over 100 years of history, only twelve have already become municipal with a decision of the municipal councils. Once again, I would like to stress that the Law automatically does not give a decision on the transition to municipalities. There must be decisions of the municipalities and there is evidently serious concern in the municipalities if they can cope in the coming years with their maintenance. It is not just that they will continue to receive, according to the delegated budgetary resources for their existence. These are usually schools that are in less developed economic areas. Children with lower material capabilities go to them. They have dorms, they help with the maintenance, the feeding of the children, which will de facto lie on the back of the municipalities. What we commented in the Standing Committee on Education and Science is that there is no solution to the case, if the municipal councils refuse to accept professional schools of agriculture, what will happen to them? Finally, basically the demand for higher quality labour is about large companies in larger cities. Given the size of the municipalities in Bulgaria, there is a serious question of what will happen at all with the vocational education and realization of the young people who have graduated from these schools in small municipalities. Professional education should also aim to change the labour market, that is to say, this orientation to be promising, to have a forwarding position and vision in terms of future development. I conclude with the question that I put at the beginning of my speech: if the labour market is shrinking, is it not better and more likely to keep a wider state participation and public schools for some of the professions that matter in general to the labour market in Bulgaria? In this way, we will have a truly oriented policy regarding vocational education, in line with the country's economic development. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! If you do not listen to the opposition's voice, at least listen to the opinion of professionals who have said that it is necessary to establish horizontal links between ministries related to the quality and structure of the workforce and from here to dual training between the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Economy and Energy. Regional analyses and on their basis regional balances containing the possibility of the development of industry and agriculture. Given everything I have expressed as our opinion and the proposals made by the experts, our parliamentary group will not support this bill because it does not meet the requirements expected for the development of vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. - What's the line? I won't. A statement by the MP Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! The bill must be supported because it aligns the newly adopted Law on School Education with the Act on Vocational Education in force. It's natural, but far is not enough. It is no coincidence that the general Structural Law on school education does not regulate public relations relating to vocational education and we agreed at its adoption that we will have a separate Law on vocational education. These social relations are too, too specific and really of great importance for the development of the Bulgarian economy, the Bulgarian society as a whole. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, the important question today is: when will you be ready to present the entirely new Law on School Education, which contains the technology for realization of a very correct change in the Law on School Education, when will we be able to borrow according to the Bulgarian specific conditions the best practices from Switzerland, Germany and Austria? That's the fundamental question. It also has a direct bearing on the structure of unemployment. When we use too often, turning almost into a cliche a very correct assessment that in Bulgaria there is a contradiction between the market needs of an intellectual product and the intellectual product that produces the Bulgarian school, in the first place, this assessment applies to vocational education in Bulgaria. Professional education, among other things, understandably is also more expensive, and that is why it is extremely important for us to know.. and I have a very hot recommendation to you, to assign a survey to your specialists without having to engage other sociological agencies.... what percentage of graduates of professional high schools are realized in accordance with their profession. I have data on certain regions. I want to tell you that the data is terribly disturbing. A huge percentage is not realised according to the profession they acquired at the professional high school. This raises the question of the effectiveness of spending the public funds of the Bulgarian taxpayer. And one of the reasons why they are not realized with the profession they have acquired is that training is far from meeting the needs of the employer of the enterprise concerned. I have quite often set an example in this hall with my hometown with Momchilgrad, where we have a mechanical engineering technique. It was built for the needs of several enterprises "four machine-building enterprises." They're all closed. Only one survived, but it works with extremely high technology and the owners have shared with me that they are taking up footage from the Professional High School of Mechanical Engineering with such training, which is far from enough for them to start flying their work there. I've even been told that their qualifications are acquired after graduation from Professional High School, not at Professional High School. It's a big problem! It must be resolved precisely through the mechanisms of dual learning, through the mechanisms of dual education in general. He needs a map of professional education. In a number of municipalities in professional high schools students are trained in professions that are not up to date. I gave you an example with the closed businesses, but because of the traditions there is nowhere, there is nothing else, the funding of professional high schools with specialties, which have long since dropped out of the economic infrastructure of the respective municipalities and regions and at the same time there is insufficient adequacy for introducing new specialties in these professional high schools. He needs a map of vocational education in Bulgaria. And here I do not agree to oppose the principle: national priorities of the Bulgarian economy and regional priorities. I think these two approaches should be balanced. In conclusion, I will say that we will support the Bill because it makes no sense to reject a bill that aims to harmonise the already adopted Law on School Education with the Law on Vocational Education. I perceive such behaviour as self-sustaining opposition and politics, if I must quote a great leader from this morning, from a morning bloc, here, this is an example of politics. [[Reply to the right: "Bravo. "]] The responsible approach is to support this bill, and our opposition in this case, both ours and mine, is expressed in the insistent call for you in very short time to present us with a whole new Law on Vocational Education, which contains the technology for realizing the correct philosophy of the new Law on School Education, namely dual education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u22	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u23	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Mestan, a few considerations regarding your findings on politics. I don't know what this notion of politics means, it's some expression of deep folk slang, most likely to discuss politics. I'm sorry it's used this way. I would like to clarify the positions of the Bulgarian Socialist Party under the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u24	That's a line to Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u25	Of course. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u26	Mrs. Dukova, please calm down. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] First I need to hear what he's gonna say and then I'm gonna make a judgment call. Please remain calm! Mr. Jablyanov, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u27	Thank you very much. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u28	You have the floor. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u29	There are other measures besides the remark, if necessary...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u30	I know them very well, Mr. Zablyanov. Go on!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u31	Thank you. Mr. Mestan, politics does not mean when agricultural schools are transferred to municipalities and when it is not clear their future when they are not regulated in any way in the legislative texts and when a political force has discussed and put this issue during the adoption of texts and its position is rejected by calling it politics. [[Reply by MP Milena Damyanova.]] The gaps in the Bill and the obvious weaknesses there cannot be politics either. Politics is something else when you try at all costs, at the expense of overreacting the facts, to gain public opinion. It's politics, nothing else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u32	Thank you. You were two minutes away. Second line? I won't. A hole, dear Mr. Mestan. Now perhaps a semantic dispute will arise.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u33	I absolutely agree with you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear Mr. Jablyanov! The chairman is right. He knew that I would raise the question that you made it very difficult for me with the strange expression of people's jargon. I don't know what that means. I really don't know. Perhaps if you had the opportunity to make another statement on your part, you could explain it to me. But if you don't like the word politics, don't address me. I was correct to say that I quote and not just anyone, but I quoted the Chairman of the PES from this morning, so to him with these lines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u34	So say you. We didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u35	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. Any further comments? First Professor. Stanilov declared a wish.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u36	Both the laws of both school education and vocational education express a certain philosophy, and this I think is good.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u37	I'm sorry for the remark, but please address both the President and the Members of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u38	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I repeat: Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable Members! I would like to say a few words, continuing the first two sentences of my speech that, however good a law is, it can only be implemented successfully under certain conditions that do not exist in Bulgaria or if they do exist, they are very weak and measures must be taken to create such conditions. After the Bulgarian industry was partially or completely destroyed in 25 years, we do not have a material base, which was said a few words. Without any arguments, without any serious theoretical training, these technicians who have successfully worked in communism have been shut down, and we must now create conditions to resume such activities through professional high schools. During the 40th National Assembly the Minister of Education Daniel Valchev closed 85 technicians without any argument. You just said they were unnecessary and you shut them down. I also remember very well the accusations on this issue in the Education Committee. We are now making some kind of law that is not in line with the severe demographic crisis. According to the Law I have remarks, but they are not so many and, basically, it meets the requirements of such a law, but does not meet the requirements of the conditions in Bulgaria, because if you have no matter on which to apply the law, how will you apply it? I mean, we need to take extremely serious measures in terms of the demographic crisis, create exceptional conditions, including financial conditions, for the development of this kind of education, and then talk about what the Law really is and what it is about there. Because as long as the textbooks of these schools, as well as everyone else's, weigh one 20% VAT, what are we talking about? Can we relieve from the tax burden partially or completely the equipment for these schools, the technical conditions under which they work? We don't, there are no offers. We therefore have a law that will be very difficult to implement. Even if we vote on it, as well as the School Education Act, no matter how healthy it makes sense, there is no way to apply it in full force and get anything. The Commission's discussions were attended by representatives of industrial capital. He says the same thing. In the first place, the industrial capital in Bulgaria is placed in conditions equal to other types of capital, if I may say so, from which it follows that the industry will be gasping, as the financial capital is more plastic and it always takes the top and withdraws the finances from... I'm sorry to bother you with economic philosophy, but that's the reality. We do not have an emphasis on industrial capital, from which it follows that vocational education cannot receive the same emphasis throughout this system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u39	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Mirchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From the speeches to this point it has become clear that this is not a new law and are not fundamental amendments to the Law on Vocational Education, but just a synchronization with the Law on Preschool and School Education. I will only say one fact that this Law was supposed to be ready on May 1st, and now we are two months later. The very pace at which it is adopted has also been delayed and the speed is very similar to the pace at which the Preschool and School Education Act was adopted. We have witnessed that this haste there has created additional problems towards and so existing in the Law, and I am not sure that things will now be different. The main problem of this Law, apart from being synchronizing, is that the state has no national economic priorities for its development, and there is no such vision. This thing is left to the municipalities. [[Replications from the MPs Milena Damyanova and Svetlana Dukova.]] Mr. Chairman, coworkers, since they don't like to speak from the stands...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u41	Yeah, yeah, I saw them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u42	Please make a note and let them leave the hall, as well as before the Law on secondary school...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u43	Mr. Mirchev...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u44	They didn't speak once, and they suffocated from there. So you can ask them to leave the room if they won't speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u45	Mr. Mirchev, your time is running out. Take the floor, otherwise they are in my vision and observe them carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u46	There is no strategy for the development of the state and, as I said, this remains entirely in the portfolio of municipalities. I know that in Bulgaria there are municipalities that suffer from underfinancing, have their financial problems. Most likely, education may not be their priority, and even if it is, they may find a way to solve the problems in it. Here we can safely say that in these very municipalities schools can also be sacrificed. I'll address Mr. Mestan, I don't see him in the hall, but research has been done and the reduction of students in professional high schools is over 30%. The guilt here is not only the demographic catastrophe, it is simply the state does not offer the opportunity to realize afterwards or simply does not create attractive conditions for children to enroll in professional high schools. Since I mentioned that, first of all, students are not interested in enrolling in these professional high schools, secondly, there are municipalities that are experiencing financial difficulties, here once again we set a distinction and division between major cities and smaller ones, as there is also business in large cities, and there are businesses and there is greater interest, as far as small such opportunities are concerned. For this reason, once again, we will divide Bulgaria into the big cities and the entire remaining periphery. The Law itself creates another problem. I think it was in art. 14b " Students who are over 16 years of age may have to continue their education in vocational schools and self-finance themselves. That, we know, will automatically get them out of the education system. I will not talk about agricultural schools because we already have an example of how in Sadovo Municipality the Municipal Council has refused to recognise an agricultural school and it is currently hanging in the air. It is not clear what will happen to it, it will be closed. This topic has been discussed repeatedly. [[GERB lines.]] I want to finish with a quote. As the government accuses us of being a self-sustaining opposition, I will quote the Bulgarian Industrial Association on the Bill: The proposed amendments to the Law in no way create conditions for the development of vocational education and training in Bulgaria. They are cosmetic and do not lead to positive changes in the environment or in the system of vocational education. This is the conclusion of the Bulgarian Industrial Association. As I like to say in the Commission, with the law on secondary education, we created a Frankenstein. Right now we're trying to create his brother so he doesn't feel lonely. It is time for the rulers to remember and stop ruining the system of education that is in a difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u47	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u48	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u49	It's not a line, Mrs. Dukova. It's a wish to speak. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, honourable Members! Usually, when I stand on this stand, of course I'm talking about education. Usually, when I stand on this stand, aplombs are expected on one side and cursing on the other side. Nothing like this is going to happen today. I will tell you without a joke, because it is beneath my dignity, because when you go out on this stand and you speak the same things as a copy-paste, unprofessional, incompetent, disoriented to the Law, it is just funny, ugly and with that you do not win people who have failed the Bulgarian education, who have closed down a mass of schools to give instruction. The confrontation in their speeches was very serious, colleagues. It began with the fact that this Law is a ZID and its philosophy is to support and synchronize the institutes laid down in the Preschool and School Education Act, and as it says, apropo, Mr. Mestan, to whom I thank for the extraordinary analysis and for what he did that should happen in vocational education, this is a consequence, and today we are looking at the occasion and reason. My parliamentary group will support this change, this synchronization for two reasons. First of all, because it's necessary because it's synchronized. Secondly, because our word "education" means care, means consistency, means something that must happen in Bulgarian education. Please, Mr. Chairman, when colleagues come out here on the stand, let them be correct, declare and say if they have a conflict of interest and if their family members have not done their job and today we have to do backstage games, I don't like it. I like it, it's not funny Law, because without using names for a personal explanation, I'll say 4-5 years of work on a law, if something I'm not satisfied with, my group is not satisfied, that's because we made over 50 compromises that we have included in the Law compromises, which even I hardly swallowed and will not share, I will not use arguments because the ideological barrier will not allow them to be understood today. I'll answer two questions. The first one is for agricultural schools. Colleagues, please read! The procedure is written correctly, precisely and clearly, and I will not open your eyes from this tribune how exactly this will happen after 1 August. Take the document, read it and see how it works. Secondly, all agricultural schools and business schools will receive funding that are already scheduled and more than half of them approved up to 1 million. BGN, according to the program "Regions in growth". All municipalities, which are engaged national priority is set, colleagues, in the big Law and it is called the education, in all its spheres, whether professionally. With the great desire to really work and give our children a chance with these strategies, with the national perspective. Please don't want to ruin your education anymore. We will work these things to happen because regardless of which side of the social environment the children are on and on which side of the gain, because in your heads is only money and how this will happen, all our children have a chance and we will give it to them. We will support the Law and hope with the next Law on vocational education that we will really work as it should. He's very important. It is on the agenda and will already happen, as well as the standards for its application. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u51	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dukova. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u52	Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u53	Please extend the time. Mrs. Bachvarova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u54	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! My reply is related to the claim that with this Law we solve the issues of vocational education in Bulgaria. We don't solve them, we synchronize one law with another. Mrs. Kuneva, the Minister, knows the timing of what Bulgaria's accession to the European Union leads to and how many problems we had afterwards to work in Bulgaria. I'm sorry, I was in the real executive power during this period and Mrs. Kuneva too. In terms of vocational schools in agriculture. There is a text in the Law that tells you that only they go to municipalities with assets and with their material base. And nothing more than that! Why do you not want to understand that there is a problem and this problem is said to be a decision of the municipal councils that do not want and they do not want. [[GERB lines.]] Please! They don't want to because they don't have financial resources. They don't. Delegated budgets do not provide support for these high schools. There are 76 high schools that besides training, you have a material base that you have to maintain, you have expenses, you have dorms, you have another base that is for the poorest children and these schools are located in poor regions. They need support. Municipalities don't have an opportunity! If you don't understand it, you're going to create a problem, they're going to be closed before they move to any community. My request is that you pay attention to this matter, it will not be resolved by spells. It will be decided with hard work and this work should be a priority of the executive power. But with the Law, we don't decide anything in that direction, and my line is in that direction. [[Applause and cheering by BSP LB: "Bravo, bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u55	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Come in for a second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Dukova, I never expected you to be so modest! I think it's right when we talk about conflict of interest in the field of education I will repeat the words of your leader Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov: "Things should be said with the real names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u57	You're very gentle.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u58	The third line is the People's Representative Milena Damyanova. [[Replys on the left.]] Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u59	Ms. Dukova, in order to dispel the emotions and concerns of colleagues on the left, you very rightly pointed out that half of the high schools currently at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food are already developing and having their projects under the R &amp; R projects in growth up to 1 million, and these high schools will receive very serious funding. All other high schools or those that the municipal councils do not want, even though we want to develop professional education in line with the needs of the labour market in the region and in the municipality, how will this happen when municipalities and regions do not have their commitment and do not want these high schools? Or maybe it's better to talk small talk about how we need to develop, but we don't have any commitments. Currently, there is a procedure for these high schools to move from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Education and Science. To correct me, Minister Kuneva, if I am wrong, but as far as I have information, only one single high school at the moment has wished to switch from the Ministry of Agriculture, of course, after a decision of the Municipal Council, to the Ministry of Education and Science. Remember that the Ministry of Education and Science has a National Programme for Vocational Education, on which these high schools can apply and receive additional funds to cover these needs they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u60	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Mrs. Dukova, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u61	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! My duplicate will be brief and relieved by the clarification of Mrs Milena Damyanova, President of the Commission. I will just say that in this direction the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva was extremely comprehensive when she gave this answer. It is simple and clear: those who do not switch to municipalities will switch to the Ministry of Education. With this, the context of your question is exhausted. As for the Law and the problem of education, I would like to tell you that in the evaluation report of the European Commission, the only positive example was that we, the Political Party GERB, have dealt with the Law, which you since 1991 cannot submit, because in my humble opinion you do not have capacity. Mr. Bayraktarov, I will say this. Yeah, I can speak with names, and I've proven it many times. I'm ashamed because I have to say not one and two names. But when you come out of this tribune, when you speak phrases from folklore, you must have the dignity to say, "Colegy, I am in a conflict of interest and quietly, sit down, because the other is shame! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u62	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 602-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 June 2016. They voted 121 MPs: 89, against 17, abstention 15. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR RESPONSIBILITY. Importer was the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2016. He was accepted in the first vote on 27 May 2016. We've been going on since yesterday. Here you go, Mr. Christov. [[Noise and lines "Procedure" by BSP LB.]] Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Both yesterday and today we notice that the Rules of the National Assembly are not respected. At 10:30, a break was supposed to be announced. Will it be at the expense of parliamentary control or what do we understand? Please follow the Rules of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u64	Both yesterday and now I find that the Rules of the National Assembly are not known. There's no rest at 10:30. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u65	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! If we're efficient, we'll probably be working five or six minutes. Yesterday we came to the Additional provision. The Commission does not support the importer's text on the name of the subdivision and proposes to reject it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. In the other texts of the law, the words "the Minister of Agriculture and Food" and "the Minister of Agriculture and Food" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Agriculture and Food" and "the Minister of Agriculture and Food" respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u66	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the division which the Commission proposes to reject and § 24 of the importer edited by the Commission. We are voting on two proposals from the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 94, none, abstention 4. The proposals for rejection of the name "Additional provision' and § 24 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u67	Proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Ferihan Ahmedova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the division "Concluding provisions'. Proposal by the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission: A new § 25 is being created: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Associations which, at the date of entry into force of this Act, have an established right of use on hydro-militorial infrastructure sites, as well as on service equipment in the territory of the association included in the property of commercial companies in which the State is the sole owner of the capital, or of their successors, acquire the right to use under art. 47, para. 1 for a period of 15 years if they have fulfilled their obligations under the contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u68	Report to the end all paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u69	According to § 25, a proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the National Representative Ferryhan Ahmedova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Within two months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall bring the ordinance under art. 47, para. 1 and adopt the methodology referred to in Article 1. 58. sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Law shall enter into force from 1 July 2016 The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u70	You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose an editorial amendment under § 25 to return from the period of three months at the request of the Ministry, because for the preparation of the methodology and regulation a little more time is required because the terminology itself and the nature of the matter are quite complex. Let us make a quality product and therefore give them three months to work on the methodology and regulation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u72	It's §25, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u73	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u74	- What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Karayancheva! In the Committee on Agriculture and Food, we have had this dispute for quite a long time. Since the paragraph concerns the cases in force and since the current Regulation regulates those in force within a period of two months, we have reached a consensus within a two-month period. The administration, if it works a little faster, will handle the writing of the Ordinance. If we accept the three-month deadline, it will turn out to be a month of luft in which the welded cases will not be treated either under the old or under the new Law. That is why I propose that you stay for a month.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u76	This is actually in the text of the Commission, so if Mrs Karayancheva's proposal is not accepted, the text of the Commission will remain. Are there any other lines? I won't. It's an unnecessary hole. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ferihan Ahmedova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 15 against 8, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Tsveta Karayancheva from the parliamentary tribune in § 25 to be replaced by three months. They voted 102 MPs: 78, against 21, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the division "Concluding provisions" (paragraphs 25 and 26) on the Commission report, and in § 25 we have just adopted the proposal of Tsveta Karayancheva. They voted 102 MPs: for 85, against 15, abstention 2. The term "Concluding provisions" and paragraphs 25 and 26 of the Commission report have been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. Rest until 11:15. We continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u77	Dear colleagues, we begin with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The Prime Minister is on his way to the National Assembly and will join the meeting. New questions for the period 25 June 2016 to 30 June 2016: There has been an inquiry of the MP Yavor Iliev Haytov to Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior on a common policy of guarding the Bulgarian border. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 8 July 2016. Written answers to service: - written answer from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to six questions by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - written answer from the Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski to two questions from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - written answer by the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to seven questions by the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; - written answer from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the MPs Metodi Andreev and Nikola Hadzhiyski; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - supplement to a written answer from the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov; - written answer from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva to a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - written answer from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to two questions and two questions from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - written answer from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - written answer from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions and one question from the MP Slavi Binev; - written answer from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - written answer from the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - written answer from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva to a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - written answer from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Let's start with the questions. We will start with the questions to Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for Home Affairs and then, when the Prime Minister comes, we will move on to asking him. The first question to Minister Bachvarova is a question from the MP Desislav Chukolov concerning the management of the distribution of drugs in the city of Sofia. Here you go, Mr. Chukolov. You have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Mrs. Bachvarova! In the last few days, I have learned that you are trying in every way to create a feeling that there is no crime in Bulgaria. I think the quote is accurate, or is it just about Sunny Beach?! I also found out that the Ministry of Interior is ready to react when an attack took place in Bulgaria. That's just commendable! When the bombing happens, you're ready! I ask you this question to find out what was the readiness of the Interior Ministry in 2015 on prevention, restriction, suspension and in general in the fight against drug trafficking in Sofia. As you know, I hope we all know, unfortunately, the situation is tragic. Sofia, just looking away, it's clear that it's a ghetto. It's got all its characteristics scratched, graffitied, police here and there, and they, of course, don't do anything. We also know that, unfortunately, schools are even more tragic. Tenth graders are the drug dealers of smaller classes. This topic doesn't seem to exist in the media. There is talk about everything else, but about drugs in Sofia, in Bulgaria, what is being done on this issue. This subject doesn't come up. That is why I am asking you this question: what is the number of persons detained for the distribution of narcotic drugs in the territory of the UDF for 2015 and what is the amount of drugs that has been detained on the territory of the UDF? I am referring to a quantity by major types of cocaine, heroin, marijuana and amphetamines. I'll follow your response with interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u80	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Chukolov, I assume you meant drug trafficking, not drug trafficking, when you asked me that question. The other thing I can tell you is that I'm not trying to create any sensations, I'm trying to do some work, me and the entire Ministry. A total of 2360 persons were detained in specialized anti-trafficking, production and distribution operations on the territory of the capital in 2015. 19 greenhouses and cannabis farming premises have been discovered. The following quantities of narcotics have been seized to compare the DVR and DGBOP in Sofia: Cannabis 927 stalks and 15 kg dry. In joint operations of the Ministry of Interior, DANS and Customs Agency, for the whole country.. 38 tons, i.e. at the entrance, where they are supposed to reach Sofia, and 10 thousand. the blade. Marihuna in Sofia. more than 20 kg. For the whole country, it's over a ton. Heroin 1 kg 600 g in Sofia, 265 kg all over the country. Amphetamines 7 kg in Sofia, for the whole country 43 kg, 453 tablets. Ecstasy 423 pieces in Sofia, more than 17 thousand. the number throughout the country. Cocaine 700 g in Sofia, 10 kg for the whole country. Hashish 800 g in Sofia, 13 kg for the whole country. This is the official information available to the Ministry of Interior and provides it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Chukolov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Bachvarova, when I was preparing for this issue, I read quite carefully the information that was delivered by employees at the Ministry of Interior in interviews with different media. There it is clear that only in the territory of Sofia per month the use of cocaine is about 15 kg. Only 15 kg per month! You say there are 700 years caught here in Sofia for 2015. A week ago, perhaps two, you answered a question to a colleague from the ABC Parliamentary Group Mr. Belemezov. That's where I've been 49 years for the whole country. There seems to be a contradiction. Then in another interview you say that this was for 2014, but its question was for 2015. But anyway, it's not what it really is! I also bothered to review all the newsletters that the Ministry of Interior issued and for October, when, as you know, two MPs decided then, a little bit of a bit to raise the issue of drug trafficking in Sofia. For the same month of October, according to the newsletters of the Ministry of Interior, I have read them all in October, there are seven people being detained for possession of drugs, a cigarette in the pocket, and one for distribution. For the whole of October! It's, uh, hey so, maybe we can retrace it for the whole year. You didn't answer my question as to how many persons are being detained for distribution on the territory of the SDVR, because apparently the number is very small and you don't have eyes to say it?! From the outside, what do you get? If it's for the European Union, partner services, then you push, you work. What's going on here in the country is obviously not a priority. And that should be a priority! We boast about how much money we put into the budget, but when there is work on these sectors, when drugs are stopped, when there is prevention against it, it is an investment in the health of the nation. And that's why we have to work!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Chukolov. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u84	Dear Mr. Chukolov, with an apology to all the other MPs, I will repeat what I said to you clearly you have not heard: 2360 people who are being detained. That's what I just said. As far as drug use is concerned, you obviously have more information. I'd appreciate it if you'd give it to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. We move on to a question by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov concerning the personnel policy of the Ministry of Interior. Dear Mr. Atanasov, you have three minutes to present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, according to art. 33, p. 7 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior.. The Minister manages human resources. In accordance with art. 163, para. 1 of the same Law The development of the professional career in the Ministry is carried out by passing a higher type of position on the basis of a competition. I would like to point out that this text was adopted last year by this National Assembly in order to radically change the practice that was introduced during the Oresharski government when competitions were not held and all appointments and career rises were made in the personal discretion of the Minister and his entourage. The aim of this change was to introduce clear criteria for career growth and to have incentives to achieve higher results than the employees of the Ministry of Interior in their work. There's been a survey. You, I'm sure, know these results, which indicate that the psychological status of the Ministry of Interior employee is characterized by high anxiety, which leads to demotivation. The factors for this anxiety and demotivation are, of course, complex. I don't know if in the first place, but a major factor, this is the social status of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. Also professional stress, poor working conditions and so on, but last but not least, an extremely important factor in the demotivation of employees in the Ministry is the lack of clear perspective in career growth. That is why we changed the Law to have clear criteria. And I would like to ask you here the question: what is your policy as Minister of Interior for realization of the competition beginning in the Ministry of Interior, also bearing in mind that you as Deputy Prime Minister are responsible for administrative reform and your public requests are that the competition beginning should be a major mechanism in general for the administration? That is why I want to understand how you implement this policy. Is the Law on Conducting the Competition Beginning for Career Growing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u88	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Atanasov, as Minister of Interior, I follow the provisions of the Ministry of Interior Act. You correctly noted the background of the principle of competition beginning, reflected in the legislation. Restoring the competition from executive to executive positions and from junior executive to executive positions is the correct solution, in my opinion, and I follow it as well as the administration of the Ministry of Interior. In due course, the regulation has also been adopted which lays down the terms and conditions for a competition to pass a higher position of civil servants in the Ministry of Interior. Legal guarantees for the legal conduct of the competitions are also introduced. I draw attention to the opportunity to appeal against not taking part in the ranking in the competition. I want to clarify something that will explain my answer after this: according to art. 143, para. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act, the types of positions in the Ministry of Interior are: senior executives, which include Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior, Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior and Director of the Directorate General; Chief of Group, Head of Department, Head of Sector, Head of Regional Administration, Head of Regional Service for Fire Safety and Population Protection, Head of Department, Deputy Director, Director; Executive and Junior Executive Jobs, which I will not list. The positions within each type of position under art. 143, para. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act is defined in a classification. When entering a higher position, a competition is held, but competition is not valid when the appointment of senior executives is made. The competition principle there is not signed and is not held. This is the case in the Law, according to art. 163, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act. In the provision of art. 164, para. 2 of the Act on the Ministry of Interior, the legislator has allowed the possibility, at the discretion of the Head of State concerned, following a proposal drawn up by him, for a civil servant to be reassigned to another position in the respective type of positions without a competition, i.e. horizontal, to one group. For example, a civil servant holding a position of a group leader may be appointed to a higher position of a department head and others if he meets the conditions for taking up the post as the positions are of the same kind and are of the same kind. The amendments and additions adopted in 2015 to the Ordinance on the Reassignment of State Employees in the Ministry of Interior are allowed and the possibility to conduct competitive selection in reassignment within the type of position under art. 143, para. 1, t. 2, that is, a competitive choice can be made between several candidates without a competition being held. At the same time, the established practice of announcing holiday posts on the website of the Ministry of Interior by the heads of structures under art. 37 of the Ministry of Interior Act. In the event of the completion of the internal capabilities of the structures, competitions for initial entry shall be announced. There are cases like this. Finally, I would like to assure you that the management of human resources in the Ministry of Interior is aimed at selecting professionally prepared and motivated personnel. The competitions are conducted by commission appointed by order. The examination of the professional knowledge of the candidates in the competition shall be carried out in one or more of the following ways: exam, professional thesis test, case solving, written development in case of guaranteed anonymity. A psychological examination shall be carried out in case of transfer from a junior executive to an executive position. The stage of the competition is also the structured interview, which includes the following areas: business style, organizational behavior and social and communicative skills, professional motivation and each member of the committee evaluates individually each candidate in each of the three areas and necessarily participates a psychologist. I think with this answer, I hope to convince you that the competition beginning has not been ignored at the Ministry of Interior in any way. As far as senior executive positions are concerned, in my opinion, it is the Minister's and the professional management's right to assess the situation in the different regions as regards directors and to take a decision which follows the logic of management or assessment of this situation. This is the opportunity that I have taken advantage of and in almost all of these cases, perhaps with one or two exceptions, there has been an opportunity for competitive selection, i.e. several candidates have been compared.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u89	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Atanasov, come in for two supplementary questions within two minutes in total.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a basic supplementary question: You correctly said, Madam Minister, that in the Law. 143, it is pointed out that there is no competition for senior management positions in the Ministry of Interior. The law does not define the circle of senior executive positions. If you, by your Act of Law, have determined this round, please very much say what this act is and in this round of senior executive positions which posts you include, because yes, it is understood that it is about the Secretary General and the Directors of the Directorates General, by the way, who are appointed by your order on a written proposal of the Secretary General, is so arranged in the Law, but I receive information that the Regional Directors of the Ministry of Interior have also been added to the senior positions. Is that true? Because if you have included the Ministry's regional directors in the senior management positions, you are thus excluding them from the competition process. That's my extra question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u92	Dear Mr. Atanasov, the positions within each type of positions under art. 143, para. 1 of the Ministry of Interior Act is defined in classifications of the posts in the Ministry of Interior. This principle shall also apply to regional directors.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u93	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Atanasov, you have two minutes to deal with this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u94	Thank you. Madam Minister, what you have said here is extremely important and it points out that you are bypassing the Law with this classificationor. This is the truth because it is unacceptable for the directors of regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior to be assigned to the senior management of the Ministry. Through the classification in practice you have circumvented the Law in your own discretion, and not only in your own discretion, the regional directors of the Ministry of Interior are appointed. I don't want to mention specific cases here, but this has led to a situation in which for regional directors of the Ministry of Interior were appointed people without authority in the Ministry, some of them excuse me, I will say it, I have said it from this tribune with nicknames. Regardless of everything that is happening, for example, for human trafficking, there continues to be the director of an important border director with the nickname Rado Scheme. Another directorate has been assigned one who is nicknamed Izo Dragon and so on. Imagine what kind of people we're talking about, and this is precisely the result of circumventing the Law, because if there are competitions, these people have no chance of taking these positions. The other thing that is very counterproductive is the appointment of temporary posts also of district directorates, for a very long period of time, without holding a competition. That is why we changed the Law last year to radically change the entire mechanism of personnel policy, so that people who have qualities that have proven themselves to be results in their work are represented in competitions, and you deprive them of that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Manol Genov on the need for disciplinary checks of the activity in the Police District Department.. Nessebar, and the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. Burgas, after the incident in the Sunny Beach................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Here you are, dear Mr. Genov, for the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is about the need for disciplinary checks on the activity in the District Police Department of Nessebar and in the Regional Police Directorate of Burgas after the incident in Sunny Beach on 9 June 2016 and the security measures for citizens and businesses there. A very respectful Deputy Prime Minister, more than 20 days have passed since the noisy incident at the resort complex of Sunny Beach, when in the shooting of firearms there were injured and injured persons, destroyed property and irreparably injured the security of the citizens. The tourist image of our country and especially the resorts on the South Black Sea coast for a long time have sunk into severe doubts about impunity, dangerous and unacceptable dependence between law and law authorities, on the one hand, and persons with vague power positions in the business in this region. The inadequate behavior that your ministry has allowed itself with its reactions to what has happened is difficult to explain. The label was followed by the awkward qualifications of the incident, such as a dispute about the parking spaces, a bit of an incident, had no contact with what society, business people and media representatives showed in the coming days. The Ministry of Interior has demonstrated powerlessness, disguised as a promised yet strong presence in the Sunny Beach. Three weeks after the incident, the investigation is carried out by the Special Prosecutor's Office, provoked by the intervention of our country's chief prosecutor. Mrs. Bachvarova, my question is: do you consider as the Minister of Interior to initiate disciplinary checks within the system of the Regional Police Directorate Burgas, who will precisely check the avalanche of public relations between questionable business persons and employees of the Ministry of Interior, existing for years past the business in Sunny Beach and Nessebar?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u99	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u100	Dear Mr. Genov, in the presentation of your question there were four false facts and one discrepancy with a position expressed by your political power during a Commission meeting. I don't accept qualifications that are very speculative. I will therefore answer you directly on the substance of the question, and then I will make an additional comment. The checks that I have ordered and are being carried out at this time are the following: the Department of the Department of Inspectorate and the Directorate General of the National Police and the Department of the Ministry of Justice of the District of Burgas and the Ministry of the Interior of Burgas, following reports of unlawful actions of officials from the Regional Directorate of Burgas in carrying out checks on applications materials for drug-related crimes. In order to prevent and cross corruption activities and crimes committed by the Ministry of Interior officials, the Directorate of Homeland Security is implementing activities in the Black Sea resort areas according to a plan which I have established. A check shall also be carried out by order of the Director of the Regional Directorate in Burgas on the activities of the employees in receipt of an alert for a crime committed on 8 June 2016 at a drinking establishment at the In order to ensure the security of tourists in the summer tourist complexes and settlements we have sent and posted additional 739 employees - this is a fact which is known, on the territory of the Regional Directorate of Burgas. Since the beginning of the Resort Season "May 15" and in the territory of the Black Sea Regional Governments specialized police operations have been conducted, including staff of the territorial directorates of the NRA, DAI, the Commission for Consumer Protection, RIOCOZ, Customs and others. In the Regional Directorate of Burgas, we have also established a Coordination Centre with the participation of employees from the Regional Directorate and the NRA, where they are planned, provided and carried out inspections throughout the entire Southern Black Sea coast with the aim of fiscal control. The Centre also works with other control bodies. Since the beginning of June, joint teams of employees of the Department of the Crime Police (Criminal Police) have been established at the Regional Directorate of Burgas, and the Regional Gendarmerium Management (SOC) Burgas, which on certain days of the week carry out checks on luxury motor vehicles. It's an operation that's been going on since February this year and hasn't been interrupted. The results of the checks carried out shall be sent to the GNP with a view to notifying the authorities of the NRA. Such checks shall also be carried out within the framework of periodic specialized police operations ordered by the Regional Directorate of Burgas and carried out by the district governments throughout the country. The risks on the territory of Burgas are mapped in relation to resort complexes, entertainment facilities, organized criminal groups and criminal contingent. We also adopted additional measures for the security of international airports and especially that in Burgas, which is at a quite good level. As for the commitment of police officers and criminal groups, it is good to look back on history. I can say that from the time I am a minister and the checks that have been carried out, there is no reason to maintain this statement. But there is a lot of evidence, and they are visible, of former employees who in recent years have worked in key positions in the Regional Directorate and are now employees of companies owned by groups in Burgas.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u101	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Genov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u102	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. I can't say I'm deeply satisfied with him. I have no doubt that in the short term you will be able to explain to us everything you do on the territory of this Directorate and in connection with this incident. However, I doubt whether you realize what a heavy management gaffe you made from the very beginning after the incident, when on June 10th your name appeared in the media with a cheerful statement that you personally checked the allegations of a political and police umbrella over certain people within a day, and how there was no record of such a thing, which you are now continuing to claim. You didn't forget what you said, did you? I think that's what happened in the towers of parliament. I also don't understand that from the very beginning of the incident, you and your Secretary-General have been trying to downplay the case. Are you behind his words when he was asked by journalists: are there any claims to the work of the Directorate in the city. Burgas? His answer was that it was a question of reading and that there were no claims. I don't want to remind you how the devil reads the gospel sometimes. You have the Department of Homeland Security, which is of your exclusive subjugation. Extremely to your obedience! Do not leave an impression to the citizens that the Burgas region borders on internal security of this department. I think by your order they should have been in place long ago, not sent here and there only on request. They had to do their job, start doing their job to make sure that addictions existed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Here you go, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u104	Dear Mr. Genov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think it's quite problematic if we start referring to quotes from the media, because in 90% of the cases they are not true, the practice proved it! I've assigned the inspection in the first days, at the beginning, right after the accident. The plan, which I mentioned in my reply, of the Homeland Security, was developed before the incident, and I can assure you that they are working extremely actively there. There's no point in giving any more details. As far as the Secretary General's statement is concerned, he made his explanation yesterday. On the same day that I was in parliament, I said that yes, that is the reason, this is the cause of this incident, but the reasons are being investigated until now. This is also a very unworthy speculation that you keep doing, forgetting to look at what is reflected in the media after one moment. You read yesterday's media and there you will see other statements.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. [[Mister President Boyko Borisov enters the Chamber.]] Good afternoon, Prime Minister. Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova, for participating in today's parliamentary control. Moving to ask Prime Minister Boyko Borisov from Radan Kanev on the policy of the government to implement the recommendations of the European Commission on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism on a comprehensive, independent analysis of the activities of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and the continuation of judicial reform. Mr. Kanev, you have three minutes to develop your question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Prime Minister! On 30 May 2016 the Ministry of Justice announced another delay of the mission of external magistrates for independent analysis of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank God this mission is already operating on our territory, as we know. This independent analysis is the main new recommendation in the European Commission's latest report on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism. It is also a key element of the Strategy for Real Judicial Reform and compliance with the clear position of the Venice Commission to overcome the structural handicaps of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. For this reason, this analysis is also a mandatory first step for the reform of the Soviet model of the Prosecutor's Office in Bulgaria and therefore for an effective fight against corruption networks at the high levels of executive, legislative and judicial authorities. I remind you that you have personally committed yourself to ensuring the cooperation of Member States in the European Union in the process of organising this independent analysis and thus recognised its place as a key state priority in judicial reform policy and combating corruption. This was also the best news in the area of judicial reform since December 2015. The delay in May was explained by the need to clarify a large part of the technical details of the mission's work methodology, as well as the working meetings of the experts here, I quote the Ministry of Justice, which is why our partners from the European Commission have decided that it is better to postpone the mission by a few weeks. That is, from the official position of the Ministry of Justice from May there is no doubt that the analysis was postponed due to failure or sabotage of the organization of the inspection by the Bulgarian side. I note that the verification methodology and the organisation of working meetings are not a technical issue, but an essential element of the analysis that determines its results and meaning. They are determining for carrying out an in-depth analysis rather than another series of formal calls and imitations of concern that we have been accustomed to over the past ten years. My information is that the rules for carrying out the analysis, the so-called terms of reference It is necessary to conclude that an attempt has been made on the Bulgarian side to change the already approved rules in order to minimize the verification. My question to you is: what is the general policy of the government for real implementation of the recommendations of the European Commission under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism on a comprehensive, independent analysis of the activities of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office and the continuation of judicial reform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Dear Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kanev! The experts you're talking about are finishing up today and leaving. Half of what I have as information, you said in your exhibition. It is true that we have asked precisely under this article for preparation, for assistance to the Member States, which is also being done in many other countries of the European Union, because at the last moment another prosecutor wanted to come. As far as I know, there's practically two of them from Britain, one from Holland, one from Germany, one from Spain. They've been here all week. They hold meetings on the job, which is from the European Commission. I dare to assure you that yesterday we asked the Commissioner for Justice Minister Mrs Zaharieva is there, because in their practice she does not go public with the report to ask, to ask the recommendations and conclusions of the inspection to be made public so that all of you and we can get acquainted with them. Nor on our part, on the other hand, I don't know... I have asked this Commission precisely on cooperation with the European Commission, because our objectives are next year in May and June to be well ahead of the measures. In this regard, Parliament is also taking great care and attention with the Law on the Judiciary, with the Anti-Corruption Act. I hope next week we can pass the Law concerning terrorist acts. You see, to the greatest regret of all of us, they don't go away, but they get more and more cruel, more inhumane, more brutal. You read what is written about the terrorists in Turkey, too, to see how true it is, but it is not at all comfortable for our justice system, if for one of them it turns out to be so, I repeat. We're trying hard. The findings and recommendations from the prosecutors who are currently here will be available on the website as public knowledge. What they've determined and what they're doing, I'm not in the loop, and I don't want to be in the loop, and I don't want to be interested. They have full freedom and, as far as I know, meet with all those who wish for both leaders and leaders, and media, and websites, anything you want. I hope a really objective report, and we will try to do what we are recommended to do. That's all I can say. Huge efforts from parliament, from the government, from each and every one of us to end this judicial reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u109	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Kanev, you have two minutes for up to two additional supplementary supplementary questions to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u110	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. As you can see, we do not only deny your positive role in carrying out this inspection, but in principle we recognise everything good that is happening and support it, as we have also supported the anti-corruption law, as we have also given a symbolic voice in support of the Judicial Law, despite our severe reservations and concerns that we have in this area. [[Noise and lines from SG to GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u111	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u112	In your specific answer to the question that we have raised, there is something that really worries me. I recall the Minister of Justice in May 2016 said that the reason for the delay was to clarify a large part of the technical details in the methodology. Today you said that the reason for the delay was the desire of another foreign prosecutor to participate. Obviously this wish was not satisfied, but it is not very important whether there are four or five. More importantly, during the past week, the chief prosecutor, Mr. Tsatsarov, said, quote: "One of the reasons that led to this is precisely our request for the confidentiality clause. We wanted to be able to release information beyond what we are sharing with you right now, and we still do not have an answer to the question whether this clause will be removed. "In his public interview Mr. Tsatsarov said that the reason for the delay was his wish to know in advance the meeting programme of this mission. Since I exclude the possibility of you lying in this room, one additional question: has the Minister of Justice or the Attorney General lied in response to this question?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Dear Prime Minister, you have three minutes to answer your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u114	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kanev, please don't put me in the one where I am called in such a comment, for the following reason: The fact is that I have asked for such an impartial check.Something that has not been done; the fact is that it has slowed down by a week or two; the fact is that it was here and it is going away today; the fact is that the Commission also yesterday explicitly Mrs. Zaharieva asked the Commissioner to allow them to be uploaded to their website afterwards the conclusions and recommendations.......................................................... We have asked for this publicity, and in this case I do not see why we should look at it with a 10 day difference in the conduct of this monitoring and what has changed or why we should transfer such heavy accusations to each other. Who is lying, who is not lying, and at the same time a prosecutor, and a prime minister of justice, and a prime minister, in this case as a government, we have done what you yourself say is very good. No one doubts that prosecutors from Germany, France, England, the Netherlands or Spain, I am not even sure which countries they are, but certainly such a group of prosecutors will give an objective report. We didn't intervene not to ask this or that prosecutor what they gave us from Brussels, it came. Whoever they wanted to meet, they met. Whether they notify us in advance or not, it is also irrelevant that they judge themselves, they are serious enough people to be able to influence them in any way, and it is not right. Even yesterday in the European Council when we spoke with Jean Claude Juncker, he also very much hopes that this check by passing or under the Cooperation or Cooperation Mechanism, as you would like to say, will give us an opportunity very quickly, if we have comments on the subject in the conclusions and recommendations, to bring them up so that next May-June can talk about the Mechanism itself or what of it remains if it remains. We're making a huge effort. Let us, in this case, be more positive and look at what we really wanted, has actually happened. Yeah, 10-12 days or how late, but in the case of the years that have not been done, I think we can swallow it now in these two weeks. This is the most cooperative appeal to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u115	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Kanev, you have two minutes to express your attitude to the Prime Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u116	Dear Prime Minister, we're delighted to swallow the delay. It's really important that there's a check, not that she's two weeks late. We will look into the reasons for this delay because it is clear that Bulgaria has resistance to the reform of the prosecution and should be so. If the reform is serious, there should be resistance, because we all know that the Soviet model of prosecution and corruption in the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office are the main reason Bulgarian society cannot reform its judiciary and fight corruption at other levels. The source of this resistance is extremely important. We have to fight it, God willing, to have the same will to fight it together. For this reason, it does not matter who lied, because if he has lied to the Minister of Justice, then we will turn to you with a request for his resignation. However, if he has lied to the Attorney General and the resistance stems from him, we cannot address you with a request for his resignation due to constitutional obstacles, otherwise we would gladly do so. It does not matter the delay of two weeks, not because of the weather, but because it is important enough that the European Commission refuses to send its mission in time until the conflict is overcome. Mr. Prime Minister, if the Prosecutor General is lying to us as MPs, you as executive, the whole Bulgarian society, on such an important issue, are you sure that he is not lying to you, for example, about the fight against smuggling, which you are constantly reporting as success, while there is no prosecution against smugglers in Bulgaria? At least there's no such struggle on the prosecution's side. In this regard, we have tabled between the first and second reading of the Law on the Judicial Authority, which provides for the creation of an independent deputy prosecutor for the fight against high-level corruption, and I hope that you, as chairman of GERB, will persuade the group to support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Let us thank the Prime Minister for his participation in today's parliamentary control. [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor.]] Come on in, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u118	Dear Mr. President, questions are an important element of parliamentary control, but when the questions try to push political nuances that have nothing to do with the essence of asking, to the answer, to the duplicate, I ask you very much, take attitude and get the MPs in order, otherwise there will be a political talk, and there will be no parliamentary control to which there are normal answers. Thank you. [[Applause from AG to GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u119	I agree, Mr. Ermenkov. We are moving on to the questions of Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science. She will answer a common question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski about the results of the exams for the 7th grade, a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev on the national external assessment after the 7th grade and a question from the National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva, as well as from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov on the results of the national external evaluation after the 7th grade. Here you are, Mr. Turnovallisky, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, on 3 June 2016 the results of the seventh graders' finals became known. They were defined as tragic "27 500 couples" and only 3630 complete A's. About 53,000 students wrote on both exams. The most low mathematics results are nearly 18 thousand, and the excellent scores are only less than 1200. A little better are the results in Bulgarian language and literature, where about 2500 students have made full A's and the pairs are 9500. Experts say the finals this year are much worse than previous years. European rankings published in the Bulgarian media rank Bulgarians in leading positions on illiterateness. These data are frightening given the humane and moral understanding that children and adolescents are the most valuable capital of our nation. Dear Minister, what is your analysis, what are the reasons for these results, in which schools and regions students from the 7th grade show the weakest results, what measures are you taking to overcome the negative downward trend of the quality of preparation of the graduates from the 7th grade? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u121	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. There is a question from Mrs. Boyadjieva and then a question from Mr. Mirchev. The procedure is within two minutes for everyone to ask their own question, and then you will have a common answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! External evaluation after the 7th grade in recent years has become a public problem and a severe test for the leadership of the Ministry of Education and Science. This year there is no exception, despite your encouraging promises and euphoric predictions, Madam Minister. External evaluation instead of fulfilling its main focus, namely to give a common national criterion and results for students' knowledge, is becoming a constant source of stress for students and for parents, for the whole society and, of course, a source of acute public reaction and distrust for the educational system. The main question that excites our entire society is when will it stop falling downhill? The results of this year's exams, as already indicated, are known, but they are worse than last year. The short assessment is that 4189 children or almost 9% do not know Bulgarian well, because they have pairs of external evaluation, 16 865 students from 53 212 took exams after the 7th grade, have pairs of mathematics, which makes more than 31%. We didn't hear anyone at the Ministry of Education and Science take responsibility for the chaos of exams. No one resigned because of the attempt to hide couples from the Ministry of Education and Science and no one took responsibility for the poor results. Please answer us, Madam Minister: what are the reasons for the ever worsening results of the seventh graders from external evaluation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Here you are, Mr. Mirchev, you have the opportunity to ask your question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u124	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! This week we are witnessing the constant scandals surrounding the portfolios that you are in charge of. The colleagues before me explained very well what was the problem with national external evaluation after the 7th grade. In June the public witnessed the official presentation of the bizarre results of external mathematics evaluation after the 7th grade, as well as the even more bizarre explanations by the Ministry of Education and Science. We are currently giving you the opportunity, if you can clarify exactly what happened, what has led to these results, and what measures are you planning to take from now on? I look forward to your explanation on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u125	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science, please respond. These are three similar questions, three minutes each, you have a total of up to nine minutes of tribune to formulate your answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. Turnovalyski, Mrs. Mirchev, Mrs. Boyadjieva, Mr. Jablyanov, ladies and gentlemen of parliament! As we promised on the first Wednesday of the month to the Committee on Education and Science, the time has come in plenary to do a detailed analysis and to clarify the situation with the results of the national external evaluation after the 7th grade this year. The level of competence of seventh graders in Bulgarian language and literature and in mathematics is checked with a test in two modules, with the following time to work: on the module for national external evaluation 60 minutes, on the additional module 90 minutes. The first of the two modules is mandatory for all students in the 7th grade and the results of it are converted to 65 points, which can be reflected as current for the student. On the second, additional module, the students appear at will, i.e. they are supposed to have a greater degree of ambition and with an idea of where they want to sign up after taking this exam. The points of it s maximum 35, together with the points of the first module, form a total result of a maximum of 100 points, which are also transformed into an evaluation. Here are some of the conclusions after the national external assessment of Bulgarian language and literature and mathematics. The results are lower, but are generally comparable to those of the previous year on both subjects the average score of the national external evaluation module plus the additional module in Bulgarian language and literature is 57.82 points, i.e. a good score of 100. Average score of the module for national external evaluation plus the additional module for mathematics. 40.88 out of 100 points, i.e. good score. After the slight decline last school year, this year there was a trend in the percentage of seventh graders who worked on the additional module, especially visible in mathematics, meaning that they had an ambition to continue, not satisfied with just the first module that gave them 65 points. There are more good and very good grades in Bulgarian language and literature. This, of course, should not in any way reassure us, we have much to do, I hope that the new Law will give impetus and with further efforts, with well-structured efforts, this result will gradually begin to change for the better. I would like to share with you some reasons for the results of the seventh graders this school year. First, a change of approach when setting the tasks in Bulgarian language in the first module in Bulgarian language and literature, with the majority of the language tasks arising from two sources of information without having a self-sustaining examination of the knowledge in Bulgarian language. Secondly, the tasks related to the two sources of information are primarily aimed at verifying the skills for understanding and applying knowledge by extracting information, i.e. checking skills for working with text, in line with international studies of read literacy. There is a change in the first module of mathematics, also in the direction of increasing the number of routine tasks in the first part of the national external evaluation, which checks the sustainability of knowledge related to basic rules, claims and properties. There has been a change in the ratio of the tasks of both partitions of algebra and geometry in the direction of a ratio of approximately one to one. The number of tasks that test students' skills to read diagrams and tables, extract information and draw indirect conclusions on them, i.e. maintaining a positive trend for checking key skills, which are also highlighted in international assessments. Unfortunately, I must make an unpleasant observation. Through the methods used in the educational and educational process, many of the teachers are based on a methodology of teaching from the 1990s and do not correspond with the difference in generations. What are the measures? From the new school year the new curricula for all classes for students from I and V and in the following academic years will be covered and the other classes of the middle educational degree will be covered. These curriculums provide more hours for exercises, review, generalizations, i.e. for applying knowledge and for forming and improving the skills needed in real life situations. Trainings have been carried out for the implementation of the new training programmes with RIO experts in general educational subjects, which in turn have implemented methodical support for teachers to work with the new educational package. Public discussion will also be on the Ministry's website as soon as next week, as is the practice with all the standards of the state educational standard for assessing the results of the training, which should enter into force from the upcoming school year. What are the additional measures to address the low results, which, however, are not expressed in direct actions of the Ministry of Education and Science, but which the Ministry will encourage and assist where necessary and possible? At school level. Teachers should analyze and diagnose student knowledge gaps, develop school programs that focus on overcoming weaknesses. The principals of the schools, together with the principal teachers, shall create conditions for new points of assessment, i.e. synchronization of the internal evaluation test materials in the form of the national external evaluation. Teachers in schools to share good practices on teaching and evaluation methods, as well as to refine their activities in the classes for additional and consulting work. At regional level. Following a regional analysis by the RIO to provide methodological support to teachers and to create regional policy in order to overcome trends characteristic of the area concerned. To initiate regional assessments in the form of national external assessment with a view to reaching maximum compliance between internal and external assessment. With all the prejudice you can declare regarding the national external assessment, our conversation and your questions are based precisely on the fact that we can say at an early enough stage what is not going on so that we can take action and fix it. If this exam of the national external assessment is looked at this way, it will be a good tool to help students perform better each year. I think it is very difficult to stop a negative trend that has been going on for years, but it is important that we know it, that we do not hide from it and that we evaluate after we can tell each other the curves and the lines and move forward together.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science. Dear colleagues, lines? Mr. Zablyanov "except you" and Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Zablyanov, you have the opportunity to replicate the answer in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Education! I fully agree with you that the problem of reducing the degree of education of students who graduate from the 7th grade did not arise a few months ago, that this is a trend that has been worrying for years the whole Bulgarian society and has a direct relationship to the future of Bulgaria, because Bulgarian students with the preparation they have, and about an hour ago we discussed changes in the Law on Vocational Education should enable the next Bulgarian generation to be not just equal to its peers in the European Union, but to be more educated in order to compensate for our 10th backwardness. It seems to me that this is the strategic task that lies before the Bulgarian education and on which there can be no differences? a question for which you have always appealed and we have agreed. What are the issues on which we currently have our differences? The external evaluation methodology cannot be blamed for the results achieved and this cannot be accepted. It seems to me that any methodology that reflects 30% of the couples of external mathematics assessment is not changing the overall assessment of the education and the preparation of the students. The next question, which we think is of particular importance, is: will the new Law, which was adopted at the initiative of colleagues from GERB, help to overcome this backwardness? In our opinion, it will not help to overcome this backwardness for two reasons. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] First, the deformities in the secondary education system are not just the result of the system, but the severe socio-economic situation in the country, the poverty and the backwardness of a huge part of the Bulgarian population.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u129	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u130	Five seconds, if you'll allow me to conclude my statement. Thank you. It is about the following that the system, the Law, vocational education should be adapted to the socio-economic and demographic processes in Bulgaria, which should be the goal of the executive authority, as they say, creatively to create the Law in Bulgarian social conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u131	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. The line, Mr. Mirchev. I'm asking for a shorter line, Mr. Zablyanov has overdue the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Kuneva, you are really right that there are problems with the assessments.. Every year the average assessment of external assessments is reduced. One of these elements is also the demographic disaster that you ignored. Here I would like to draw attention to the problems related to the Ministry of Education and Science. First of all, I didn't hear an interesting statistic in your answer. The children we are currently evaluating after the 7th grade were first evaluated three years ago when they were in the 4th grade. The difference between them is six thousand children less. Where are those six thousand kids? Assuming these six thousand kids didn't take the exam, which means they didn't take the exam, the actual number of students with couples is getting much bigger. Separately, we remember all the confusion about the scandal.. really how many couples, what they did exactly by the Ministry, which you are in charge of? The conclusions we can make are that the results of the external evaluation that we have seen are frightening to society as well. The lack of capacity and helplessness on the part of the Ministry of Education led to manipulative statements which from certain media were even called that the Ministry was lying. And as a consequence, it is a collapse in the trust of society, precisely to the Ministry and to the education system. Based on these three conclusions, I can't understand why no one has taken responsibility for yet another chaos and scandals that are happening around your office?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Turnover, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u134	Dear Minister, I will not repeat everything my colleagues have said, but I want to clarify something about ourselves and everyone else. You said the valuation standards would be ready soon. At the same time, however, the programs that children should be trained on are not ready or the majority of them are not ready, which means to me that students from I through VII will be trained on the old programs until the new ones come in, then we will evaluate them according to these new standards. Again, I think we're gonna have a problem with that. We have a new law, we don't have programs ready. And this creates a problem that you in your statement referred to as one of the problems with the results of this external evaluation. What is your view, to clarify this problem how will it be solved and when will there be training programmes for all students?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u135	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. A hole, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. The opportunity is within six minutes to unite your cobwebs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u136	Mr. Zablyanov, I think your tone of concern deserves to be noted. Just so you know, no one blames the valuation methodology as a reason for low grades. But when we are talking about an evaluation methodology and programs, a question that Mr. Turnovalyski raised, we really need to bear in mind that, let's say, our children, who will be evaluated, will soon see and the poor results of the PIA, I would like to warn you, coincide with what they are studying. If, for example, Bulgarian children do not study rates in the class in IV, in which they are evaluated according to the PIA, based on the handling of percentages, we cannot have a good result. So even though this is not a common policy, if we want to compare ourselves and our children to gain prestige for their country and feel at ease that they are competitive everywhere, with these soft forms of influence, I think that our systems are really going to align to the extent that they can be compared. Then I am sure that Bulgarian children will show what they are capable of. By the way yesterday, I think that just yesterday, we had a huge success again in mathematics with the Bulgarian children who took all possible medals. I wish from the House of the National Assembly we could all congratulate them. Here, I hope, there is no contradiction, there is no opposition. Good for the kids, their teachers, and let's just say this system can do that. It can produce really high results. How, though, can we make sure that there are no short ones? You said I don't remember, it was already Mr. Mirchev where these six thousand children were lost. I won't take the number, I haven't checked it, but if you look at what's happening to Roma children, you'll see that since the first grade started, then we check how many of them have reached the V grade and there are already 12% and how many are in the 19th grade. This is one of the tough questions that we don't just have to face, but we have to solve it. In this direction, our efforts must be without hesitation, without rest, with a lot of persistence, because this early school dropout practically condemns life, condemns families further to these children. If, in part, I have been able to answer your question, Mr. Mirchev, this is the painting so far. If it's six thousand, I'll check it out and we can continue on Wednesday, when I'm back in your Commission, I'll respond to the blitzcontrol in the Commission, we can continue our conversation there. It's four grand, I just can't tell you. For what many of you have repeated and I would like to clear the matter publicly so that we do not return to newspaper publications. With all due respect to the way to make a reading interesting, yet chaos and different information the Ministry of Education has never given. I'll tell you where things came from to different interpretations. When we work with two modules, in the first module some of the children may not have enough points to reach three, but if they have continued on the second module, however few points there are, but as long as something they have done, it is already transferred to their result in the second module. And then they could have passed and reached the threesome. So that's the reason, the numbers are exactly what they are, we can't in any way, and we never wanted to present them as something different. We're just quoting the data as it is, without interpretation. Maybe we should have interpreted them, then it would have been easier. I can assure you, in any case, that the Ministry is very focused on fulfilling every possible task, filling it with content. You know, we're working on standards that are a lot. This morning there was talk of vocational training and education. Only the standards in different professions are 242 in different directions. About 200 we can use what we have at the moment, but imagine how much work these experts are doing. So I hope, on your behalf, I can put in a good word for the work they're doing. Otherwise, with your critical lines, you'll probably help us be even better at our communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u137	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Let's move on to the next question. He is again from the MP Stoyan Mirchev and is about the National Assembly of Teachers. Here you are, Mr. Mirchev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u138	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! The next question I'm going to ask is related to the National Teachers' Council. As we are all witnesses in this hall, on June 19th the Ministry of Education held a National Teacher's Council under the motto "Mission Teacher." The aim of the Assembly was to keep the teachers and the whole society informed about the upcoming changes arising from the new Preschool and School Education Act. Here comes the first contradiction. If we open the dictionary, we will see that the assembly is primarily associated with a celebration that we witnessed on May 19th. But if we read further down, we'll see that a 20th century convention is increasingly called a fair. And indeed we have witnessed a fair, an empty promise, a wandering around in the media, without being able to give a clear answer to whether or not the teachers have been lied to. Please answer me how exactly did you achieve the first stated targets in relation to the results, how do you evaluate them, and once again I will ask, what was the cost? But here I do not want you to dwell solely on the direct costs incurred by the Ministry of Education and Science, but the costs of all this crisis PR action on the occasion of the new Preschool and School Education Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science, please answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u140	Mr. Mirchev, I will stick to your question the way you asked it. In front of me is your text: The aim of the Council is to make sure that teachers and the whole society are fully informed about the upcoming changes arising from the new Preschool and School Education Act. How exactly is this goal achieved? That's the first part of your question. Without going in search of what a council in the dictionaries means, let me still tell you that almost every profession that is mass enjoys such general gatherings. Why? Because people who have the same goal in front of society should see each other, should when they are in a situation to start something new, give themselves courage and exchange information, exchange opinions. In fact, Mr. Mirchev, if you read modern studies in pedagogics, it is the best teachers who learn from each other who learn from practice. And I'm not kidding about that at all. It turns out that 70% of what the teacher builds on in the qualification builds on it through direct contact and learning from other teachers... so-called mentors and many other forms. What is the purpose of the National Teachers' Council? Please do not underestimate the teachers, unlike other occupations.................................................................................................... You have been invited cordially to the entire Commission. I'm sorry if I missed you, but I don't think I saw you at the Council, and I'm sorry about that. I want this event not to distinguish us, but to bring us together. The aim of the congregation was for teachers to feel part of a large and important community, to gather all the energy in one place and they to feel their power. My previous meetings in the country showed that this is what it needs, and the reviews of the teachers after the event show that it has been achieved. The aim of this meeting was for the teachers to understand that the state supports them and relies on their professionalism and motivation, so I would love to see you there and realize that they are the engine of reform. What stronger sign of this is that the Head of State and the Mayor of the capital gave a personal greeting? The Prime Minister of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly, sent greeting addresses. This is not just a formality, Mr. Mirchev, it is respect for the Bulgarian teacher, witnessed by the highest institutional level. I still don't understand why you didn't decide to come there? Just because you're rejecting the Law doesn't seem like a good reason. The aim was to hear the voice of the Bulgarian teacher. More than half the time was devoted to speeches from both the auditorium and video recordings of teachers from all over the country. Of course, this isn't a working seminar, and this is just a gathering. But he didn't show up without having had a meeting before, nor did he end up with our big meeting in Sofia. On the contrary, we're continuing our meetings now, and that's what we're going to do all summer, and not just. But since the Law has now begun, it is important for me to emphasise this. The aim of the Council was to open the system to society, to not have a serious debate just within the system. And the fact is that in the days following the meeting, the topic of education is central. There is more and more talk not only about budget and money, but also about meaningful things, and I hope that we will continue this debate. Yes, although this was not a seminar, the Council achieved an informative and to some extent educational goal, as all participants received information materials with the Law and state educational standards. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And on the spot they received from Deputy Minister Dian Stamatov and me very specific information about the most important things that are happening. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm running out of time, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u141	In the back you can continue.. Thank you for understanding, about a minute I extended your time. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, as we have seen, four minutes have not come to answer us and we have not heard a single answer to the questions I have asked. First of all, we don't underestimate teachers. We, with our policy, have proved that they are one of the most important people in society because they help build a future Bulgaria. For this Council, do not think that the day begins from you.. 24 May is the National Day of Bulgarian Education, of Bulgarian teachers. Then you can honor them, you can show your respect for them. What you did was pure PR. I'm going to say the word "enlighten" for May 24th, the word that you supported the new Preschool and School Education Act threw out on the street that no longer exists there. I'll give you a few facts. The people of Silistra got up at night to travel half a day to come so that there could be an opening for 10 minutes, 35 minutes to have speeches and about an hour and a half to hear something under the new Law. It was the first mockery that these people were being driven around the country as extras. Second of all, about the money. The Ministry has spent $100,000. BGN, but we don't forget that the schools paid 10 BGN. Retirement of 12 thousand. Souls? That's only 140. 150,000. lv. Separately there are transport costs, so the real costs are over half a million levs. In the end, I will finish with this.. You made a promise, however, to try to repay this PR action, called the Council, by promising a 10% increase in wages. Then everyone explained to you that this was not promised and could not happen. You made fun of the teachers and gave them some false hope. So we do not underestimate them, we respect them and protect them, but you mock the teachers of Bulgaria. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u143	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u144	Mr. Mirchev, the difference between lying and manipulation is very thin. What I want to tell you about the value of the Council, many teachers have said for me. I'm not gonna tell you again because I'd like to keep their voice in your head. As for the 35 minutes you're talking about, because you weren't at the Council because you couldn't get over yourself, come and enjoy with everyone that 12,000 teachers gathered together, so you don't know. If you'd like someone there to tell you about it. And in Silistra, I will go and see the teachers, and I will see anyone who wants to see me, so that I can understand exactly what you meant by quoting Silistra by quoting Silistra teachers in such a negative context. I don't think you should use the name of an entire area that way. And one more thing about the collective contract. Mr. Mirchev, I hope you understand that this is the case. A collective employment contract is signed, which is between employers and teachers. This collective contract is also signed by the Minister of Education and Science. The Minister of Education and Science in this case in my case signed the desire of the partners to work for a 10% increase in teachers' salaries. I am very interested in which minister of education and science, whether or not of education, will refuse to support such a fair request? Why? Because we have said, and this is the whole government, it is not only a matter of policy of the Minister of Education, that we put it at the heart of our efforts. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I hope we can prove it through financial support as well. Yeah, that's what we're trying to do. This is called politics, not just beautiful words. I'd like to finish by saying that last year, $4,000. 500 teachers retired because of age. We're about to find new teachers. How can we tell them that their career and their families will develop and rely? In the next ten years, retired teachers will be 45,000. These are the questions we need to speak to calmly, without malice and without envy, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u145	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Vili Lilkov and is on the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018. Here you go, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u146	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear colleagues, Mrs. Kuneva! My question is that in exactly two years' time, on 1 July 2018, Bulgaria will take over the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. This is a very responsible mission, and in this regard I ask the following questions: What funds are provided for the organization of the Presidency in the capital to ensure transport, accommodation, basic infrastructure, security and all other aspects related to the physical preparation of the city of Sofia? Are additional EU funds received for this purpose and how are they being spent so far? Has a dialogue with the Sofia Municipality started on these issues and does Sofia Municipality have its own programme and already own budget so that it can participate in the preparation of this big event? Last but not least, are there meetings, workshops or events in other Bulgarian cities other than Sofia, which is why such preparation is required, which should be carried out in Sofia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Lilkov. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u148	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Lilkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Apparently Mr. Lilkov's experience as a municipal councilman is speaking his mind and he is raising an important question. On the issue of funds for the organisation of the presidency in the capital. The funds for the Presidency are provided for in the updated medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2016 - 2018. 150 million were set there. BGN, which does not mean that they will all be expressed. Additional costs were approved by Decree 125 for the period 2016 - 2019, amounting to 52 million. lv. This amount includes the funds for: security and security, specialized transport and personal protective equipment of the Ministry of Interior, equipment and equipment for checking NSO, repair of a key building fund. Here I would like to say that the hardest part of the expenditure, unfortunately, is linked to the building fund. If we didn't, we'd just save that money. The truth is Sofia has nowhere to face such an event. The buildings, which as a scale are good, such as the National Palace for Culture, are not in a state that can go without repair. The same applies to the building of the National Assembly - the former Party House, which has a good, large hall that can meet KOSAC, but it needs serious repairs. A lot of money will go into these repairs. Indeed, the buildings will stay and this is good news, but it costs money. This year, the focus will be on the buildings. I think this is justified, taking into account the time to prepare procedures and the construction works themselves. I think that I already have reason to worry about whether we will succeed with public procurement, with a very good performance, because money must be given, but that does not mean that a bunch of repairs have to be carried out. We agree to give them as a country because we know that they will stay and we need to be sure of the quality and not that kind of money to go just for the Presidency. I wouldn't welcome that myself. For the renovation of the residence Boyana is 9 million. BGN, as the government has decided to use the residence primarily for representative needs from the executive power to the Presidency, that is, to seal the funds. 25 million are provided for the renovation of the National Assembly. 219 thousand. lv. This gives the opportunity to finally bring all MPs together in one city and to have a modern plenary room. I hope that's good news. There is also expected to be clarity about the value of the NPC repair. You don't know that right now. Within two months, a public contract for adaptation of the NDK building should be announced, in fact for half of the NDK. According to initial estimates for logistics in Sofia, we have provided 10 million. lv. ? accomodation, catering, translation, transport outside the representative cars. It all depends on the calendar of events we plan. We try to be as modest as possible, but to provide decent conditions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Success in the political spectrum is important along with how our country will be remembered. I think that with what is happening in Britain, we do not have 100% certainty as to whether the Presidency will not be drawn six months forward, which is a completely different time. Very few events can be done outdoors, that is, this will actually be more expensive.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u149	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Mr. Lilkov, the line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, thank you for your reply. I only take these numbers for statistics, but I see that nothing has really started yet. It is not insignificant that we have the money, but I would give a piece of advice: ask the Sofia Municipality for a parallel programme, because the Presidency of the European Union does not only represent a collection of meetings, but Sofia does have to become the capital of Europe in those days. The fact that we have lost the opportunity to be European Capital of Culture has given us a new chance to really be one, and not just the capital of culture! This means that Sofia Municipality must develop a very detailed programme that will fit perfectly into the programme prepared by the Council of Ministers. I'm not gonna spread any more advice. There are people who understand more than I do. However, I would also like to say the following. In my opinion, it is good to develop an additional action plan that will provide for us, perhaps from 1 January, to take over the Presidency, because this opportunity is quite real. In just a few months, we will probably know whether Britain will take over the presidency from 1 January. Then we need to know what we are doing..... whether we will be able to take over from January 1st. As you noted, from 1 January to 1 June is a completely different season and it requires a completely different preparation. Knowing the pace at which it is working in Bulgaria, the stereotypes in which Sofia Municipality works, as well as our typical Balkan sluggishness, I begin to worry today. I therefore invite you to speed up the work of taking over the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Lilkov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u152	I share your sense of urgency, Mr. Lilkov. Then let me tell you some more facts. As early as February this year, the working group.......................................................................................... It's where I invited Mayor Fandakova. I have her assurance that the municipality will participate in the preparations and cooperate as much as possible. With regard to the squares around the NPC, because this was the subject of the group's gathering. By the end of 2016, she promised that with the municipality's own funding the square in front of the National Palace of Culture would be completed. Some of the NDK terraces are property of the municipality, strangely enough. In addition, their joint innovation partnership will be discussed. The A-3 parking lot will be free for the Presidency's needs during the relevant period of 2018, but we need to provide in the budget the necessary means of compensation. Regarding the approaches to the adjoining infrastructure, the possibility of repairing the entrance from the boulevard is discussed, and the parking lot in front of the museum, such as Sofia Municipality will do what is necessary to repair these places. According to the cited points of the preparation plan, the plans of the municipality include the following activities to alleviate the preparation: By the end of 2018, the renovations of the so-called "powertrain" will be completed. Support of the already renovated boulevard of Tsarigradsko shose. At this stage there is no provision for repair of the boulevard of Bulgaria. If necessary, funds should be placed on the table in 2017. The construction of a metro station at the intersection of the boulevard of Geshov and the boulevard of Bulgaria will cover a year and a half and will be completed before the beginning of the presidency. Now I don't know what to say if it moves by six months. By the end of 2016, the smart traffic control system will be completed, providing for automatic transmission of special mode cars. On the basis of additional information on the average amount of expected flows, special measures may also be provided for public transport. We're in contact with the city. I work very well with Mrs. Fandakova. After clarifying the calendar of events and volume of airports, we will be able to predict more accurately and correctly within our partnership. Not only with Sofia Municipality, I would like to work with Varna and with Plovdiv, because these are also European capitals, and thus we should multiply our efforts and cut costs. However, I admit that the situation in which we do not know when the Bulgarian Presidency starts very much disincentives the team.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u153	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. The next question is from the National Representative Milen Mihov on a procedure conducted BG-05-M and so on called "Support for pre-school education and training of disadvantaged children." Docent Mihov, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u154	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! My question has already gained popularity and we have already seen your first reactions, but I still want to present it. On September 23, 2015, the Directorate General for Structural Funds and International Education Programs at the Ministry of Education and Science launched a programme under the priority axis "Educational environment for active social inclusion" "Educational priority" "Social and economic integration of marginalized communities" such as Roma, through a financial assistance grant procedure "Support for pre-school education and training of children in disadvantaged situations." The deadline for submission of proposals shall be no later than 30 November 2015. The maximum grant amount for each project shall be 500 thousand. lv. On 3 June 2016, a communication was published on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science, from which it became clear that on the basis of art. 13, para. 6, p. 2 of the Council of Ministers' decree with the relevant number and in relation to a decision of the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme, taken on 2 June, the budget of the operation concerned was increased to 20 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. A list of approved projects is attached to the communication. Dear Minister, from the review of the list of approved projects, it is noticed that under the numbers 60, 61 and 62 three projects are entered, won by non-profit associations with similar names: Each of the three projects has a value close to the maximum and exceeds 499 thousand and the total amount amounts to 1 million. 498 thousand. BGN 522. 17 cm. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The three companies were registered between 3 and 8 September 2015. The three companies were registered in Varna. The three companies stated in their statutes uniform texts for purposes and means.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u155	If you'd like to formulate the question. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u156	And most importantly, the Board of Directors of the three companies consists of seven members who are the same. How do you assess this fact and do you think that there are violations in the changed procedure? What measures will you take after this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u157	Thank you, dear Assoc. Mihov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u158	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mihov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for bringing this up. The check I ordered was due to a signal from NGOs (non-governmental organization). If they hadn't done it, maybe you would have. My reaction would have been the same. Any doubts about irregularities in operating with public funds are a disturbing fact. What did the Ministry do? I immediately appointed a check with the Managing Authority of the Operational Program "Structural Funds" Directorate General and International Education Programs. Two days ago, on 29 June 2016, I received an audit report. In short, I will set out the main findings in the report. They're that problems exist on two lines. The application guidelines provide that a candidate can participate in the procedure with only one project proposal, but there is no restriction on the number of projects in which an organisation can participate as a partner, and according to the guidelines each partner can participate in more than one project. In this way, various participants in NGOs and municipalities are allowed to receive funding once, as candidates, as a leading organisation, and unlimited number of times as a partner organisation. I don't think that's the point of the way you apply. Nor is the possibility for the same individuals to be behind different organisations. Thus, although the conditions are not formally violated, there is de facto a vicious result. Different legal entities, but the same personalities, which contradict the design. The second group of problems is related to the process of evaluating project proposals itself. There are problems of a different nature. For example: as the assessment criteria are described, participation of non-profit associations, which are newly established, as you have pointed out, and without experience, is allowed. The experience of the members of the associations shall be assessed separately on the basis of a CV which, according to the audit report, is not a reliable means of establishing the facts stated therein. There have been violations of the rules for the inclusion of observers in the evaluation process, as well as of the rules for admission of projects to evaluation after deadlines have expired. The evaluation committee has concluded an evaluation of the submitted project proposals after the deadline. In the specific case of the three non-profit associations, which is the cause of your question, the audit team has considered it unacceptable to conclude contracts to finance the project proposals cited by you. What's next? We will comply with the recommendations of the report, but at the moment I prefer not to say any more and I call on the people's representation to show understanding of the situation, as indeed the events are ongoing. Once again, I would like to stress that the report itself was presented to me less than 48 hours ago. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , as part of these hours I spent discussing and voting on an important bill as well as this morning. I need a little more time. I take the commitment at the beginning of next week to make public all the details relating to the report and the measures that are to be taken. I'm personally committed to you, Mr. Mihov, the Ministry's team to inform you of all the actions taken by us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u159	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Docent Mihov, would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u160	Mrs. Kuneva, first of all thank you for your actions, for your adequate attitude. My observation of the case is still tempted, as a person who follows the past, gives me reason to assume that this is a deliberate and planned action by a group of people in order to embezzle public funds in a particularly large amount. The three projects amount to nearly 1.5 million, which represents 7,5% of the total programme. This is a serious damage to both the budget and other participants in the competitions, including non-governmental organisations, which are wronged to gain access to these funds. I declare that we will support all actions of the Ministry in order to reveal the truth and correct this case, as well as future actions in the implementation of the Operational Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u161	Thank you, Assoc. Mihov. Would you like a douche? No. We continue with the next question for you. He is again from the National Representative Vili Lilkov and is on the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science concerning the housing problems of scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and lecturers from the higher schools in the Republic of Bulgaria. Come in, dear Mr. Lilkov, let's hear your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, Dear Mr. Donchev, Dear colleagues! The question I am asking is related to the case, which is already known "block 58" in the Student City. There a group of lecturers are threatened by being thrown out of the dorm because of some rules that the Ministry of Education and Science has introduced over the years. I hope this case gets a good development. I think a lot of colleagues are trying to help, even submitted questions to the National Assembly, but I would like to put the issue on a principle basis about the policy that the Ministry of Education and Science, Sofia Municipality, in general the state institutions have in terms of housing policy and solving the housing problems of teachers and researchers. What exactly is this about? It is known that in Bulgaria the salaries of scientists, researchers and lecturers in higher schools are quite miserable. It is known that with the adoption of the amendments to the Law on the Development of the Academic Staff to lecturers and scientists, requirements have been set that are quite high and suggest years of work to protect certain criteria in their scientific growth. It is also known that many of the Bulgarian scientists and lecturers visit universities abroad, where, on the one hand, their achievements are appreciated very highly, and on the other hand, they see the conditions and pay under which their colleagues work there. In all the strategies, all the documents that we adopt, we point out that science and education are a priority. Even you yourself, Mrs. Kuneva, just now said that there is a big problem with the Bulgarian teachers [[the President signals that time has run out]] , with their development and qualification. In this regard, the question arises: how can we help those people who are value to the Bulgarian society, who are the pride of the Bulgarian society when they have to solve their housing problems, provided that they cannot in any way enter the system of Sofia Municipality and align the criteria to receive municipal housing? How, for years, have we allowed scientists, people with titles, people with knowledge, with respect and authority in society to live under such conditions, to live tens of years in dorms? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It is high time we took action by which the state, the municipality, showed that the policy regarding scientists and solving their housing problems is a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u163	Thank you, dear Mr. Lilkov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to formulate an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Lilkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'd like to clarify a few things. One thing I want to clarify is this impersonal form over the years. I would like to stress that it is difficult for me to explain right now what the motives were to make this decision, because I did not make them. But as we all know, laws, regulations are about implementing them. Secondly, the note seems language, but it is not. You said they were threatened to leave. Not at all, Mr. Lilkov. They're not threatened. And I've been seeing them, and my colleagues are seeing each other, and there's no such thing that the Ministry of Education and Science is threatening. Please, let's not put salt in the wound. You, with your experience as municipal councillor, you said yourself that Sofia Municipality has not done what was necessary over the years. Well, maybe this is also one of the opportunities to try to get together now and do something together. Many times we have discussed the so-called Bl. 58........................................................................................... I'm not going back to history. The current regulation says that teachers should be placed there by the age of 35 and for no more than five years. We have young teachers, don't we? They're not high wages either. They should be helped, too. On the basis of the findings of the inspection, recommendations have been made to take action to bring the rules into line with the Ordinance on the use of student dorms and chairs. There's nothing scandalous here. The laws, in a broad sense, are for this to be implemented. But it is because I realize all those factors that you have pointed out that we do not stop there. As a result of the numerous meetings held with representatives of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, higher schools, Student chairs and dormitories and their proposal to change the Regulation on the use of student dorms and chairs, a working group was formed with my order to discuss the possibility and necessity of changing the regulation. If the regulation changes, then I can act according to its new text. The working group includes representatives of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Student chairs and dormitories.The Council of Rectors, National Representation of Student Councils, Ministry of Education and Science and, you know that tomorrow at 11.00 you have a meeting in the Student Chairs and dormitories. That's the way I want to work. You need balance. We need to protect the people who are in this life situation that you mentioned. At the same time, however, to give a sign to young teachers and young scientists, because they are also entitled to take advantage of what is being given to them through such an incentive. I urge you to continue to follow the subject, and I assure you that as soon as we come to a decision, we will not be silent. It is my principle that every action in the Ministry of Education should not only be publicly discussed but also publicly announced. Mr. Lilkov, with all my friendship that they're threatened, don't say that. No one is threatening them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u165	Would you like a line? Here you go, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u166	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. As far as the word is concerned, I think it is very accurate, as these people are currently living without extension of their accommodation contracts. That's what I consider a threat. When I live somewhere without a contract and someone refuses to sign a contract with me, I feel threatened. This is my interpretation of the situation. I'm also absolutely certain that the problem with bl. 58 will be solved, but the problem with bl. 58 does not solve the problem of researchers, scientists and lecturers in higher schools. Therefore, I call on you, as far as I can see, you agree, Mrs. Kuneva, to have one or more meetings with the management of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Council of Rectors, Sofia Municipality and to discuss what are the options for solving this problem. I can give you a few clues. First of all, in the criteria of Sofia Municipality for obtaining municipal housing to give these people and their families a sharp priority in order to be able to receive municipal housing and not at the moment Sofia's municipal housing policy to be reduced to only the worst cases of socially weak families to be able to receive housing. Another possibility is for us, as legislators, to resolve the issue of setting up a free right to the construction of cooperatives or associations of researchers and lecturers in higher schools. Third, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences has so many properties that it can provide even stains for the construction of workers there. How will we attract young people into science, given that we give him a salary of 450 BGN. a doctor's starting salary, chief assistant, and on the other hand, we're putting him on a condition for a few years to do a dissertation? That is, if we say that these people are value, let us also direct our policy to support these professions, to these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u167	Thank you. [[Applause from the guests.]] Please be quiet in the hall, especially the guests who are in the stands. If you please, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, will you take advantage of the backdrop? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Lilkov! Then I suggest tomorrow at 11:00, all these suggestions of yours...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u169	Monday.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u170	Monday, yeah. On weekends, it doesn't matter. Let's do this: you're a man of science. Make an index which of the things, with what degree of probability it is. I can also sign this right away to enable young scientists to have such access to homes. Sounds really nice! However, if the index of credibility and urgency is not high enough, it means disappointing them a second time. So right now we have a regulation that doesn't give these people a legal opportunity to feel safe. They're not threatened by the MON, they're threatened by what this regulation says. If you offer me a way in which we can say: no, it will not be 35 years, but up to 65 years of use in this.... in fact after 65 years, I think it is even more difficult.... then what do we do? Secondly, why hasn't Sofia Municipality done it so far? Maybe there are some very serious reasons. Without having a conversation, let's not put it in the hope basket. Or if we put it on, let's know what time we can give them a specific answer. Anything that can work, work quickly and without delay, I'll do it. We just have to be realistic and tell each other things exactly the way they are. If the ordinance changes now, I don't mind. The question is, what's going on with the young scientists who are coming? Where do we put them? So any working options I'm on their side.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u171	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. There is a question again for you by the National Representative Mithat Sabri Metin about the deterioration in the educational process at the Department of Bulgarian Language. Kliment Ohridski. You're welcome to formulate your question, Mr. Metin. [[National Representative Mithat Metin spoke with President Ivan Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u172	Here you go, they'll mark your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u173	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Madam Minister, I appeal to you in accordance with the autonomy of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski, but given the exceptional place which occupies among the educational policies the education in Bulgarian language for foreign students. The Department of Bulgarian Language (Bulgarian language) as foreign at the Faculty of Slavic Philology is the only scientific unit accredited to conduct specialized training in Bulgarian language of foreign students, students and PhD students in all faculties, as well as different types of exams. A number of diplomatic missions are addressed to the Department for the training of their representatives in Bulgarian language, as well as to conduct the respective exams for degrees of possession. In addition, the number of residents under the Programme of the Programme is increasing every year and the requirements are to ensure Bulgarian language readings as foreign in the three levels of knowledge. Unfortunately, there is definitely a negative attitude to any initiative of the department because among the academic community the opinion is that it is not profitable and therefore unnecessary that its teachings are in other faculties and most importantly that career growth in the department is impossible because there is no lecture courses, which is absolutely false and confirmation of these are the two positions in the department of professor and associate professor. The current dean of the faculty continues the same policy. The amount of hours must be reduced, although for this school year the faculty budget has received 40,000. lv. from a taxi to foreign students. It is disturbing practice to resolve specific administrative and financial issues with restrictive measures that eliminate the ten-year building of the authority and importance of the Bulgarian language, creative efforts and innovations of established Bulgarian scientists and university lecturers. In addition, this approach also suffers from the quality of the educational process. And in this regard, my question to you is this: what measures could you take to ensure a normal job and creative environment in the department, which implies a normal and not a reduced number of classes, and the expected development and growth of the members of the small department, which is one of the good faces of Sofia University, in whose programs a special place has been assigned to attract a larger number of foreign students, such as participants in the university's learning process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u174	Thank you, Metin Bey. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u175	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Metin, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The higher schools in Bulgaria carry out their overall activities on the principles of academic autonomy regulated by the Law on Higher Education in accordance with all the laws of the country. The Higher Education Act specifically and clearly describes the powers of the higher education management bodies and of the management of their respective main units. The right of the faculty council is to accept the curriculums in the specialities for which the faculty is responsible, but you, of course, know this, to choose and promote in office the unhabilitated members of the academic staff, as well as to announce competitions for holding a post for habilitated lecturers after a decision of the academic board. I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Education and Science has not received signals from lecturers in the Department of Bulgarian Language as a foreign language for violation of the regulations. In the event that we are informed of such, verification and action will be carried out in accordance with the powers of the Ministry. Dear Metin, I realize I'm telling you this, but you expect to hear something else. That's the truth. I appreciate the fact that as a Bulgarian MP you show concern about the state of a department in a Bulgarian university, only that the actions of a minister cannot go beyond the range of powers that the Law gives him. And all the problems that you put in your question concern such spheres, the number of hours, state numbers, the announcement of competitions. It's a classic, typical expression of academic autonomy that I have to respect. As a citizen, I understand your concerns, but as a minister, I am bound by the Law. If there is any possibility, according to the Law, to take a step towards a better representation of these specialties, I will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u176	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Metin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u177	Thank you. Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I assure you that you will be informed and alerted by the lecturers of the department in question, and since I am following this case, I am obliged to inform you of the following at the moment, as the case is in progress. The Dean of the Faculty of Slavic Philology reported this week the issue to the Sofia University Study Commission and insisted on reducing the readings in the Department for savings. The members of the Commission have not supported him, and the Head of the Department and the decision was to bring him back to the Faculty of Slavic Philology, which is why the following two reasons are pointed out first is not by the academic rules and ethical norms to resolve such an important issue without informing the members of the department as well as their head. I remind you that the educational process for foreign students has been going on for 27 years. The second basis. The Bulgarian language readings for foreigners cannot be unified in one model for all faculties, so the requirements and specifics of each of the faculties are different, so this education is qualified as specialized. Last but not least, I would add that attracting foreign students to study Bulgarian language and culture is of national strategic importance and that is one of the highlights in the program of Mr. Rector before taking up his post. Quality education has never walked hand in hand with the reduced amount of hours. In conclusion, I would say that such inadequate restrictive measures by which savings are sought should not affect the knowledge classes of the Bulgarian language and culture for foreign students who actually present our educational policies in Europe and are part of our European face. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u178	Thank you, Metin Bey. Here you go. You're not going to use your right to the back. This was the last question to you, and that ended your commitment. You have fulfilled your constitutional obligations. Have a good day. We continue with the responses of the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Mr. Tomislav Donchev. He'll answer two questions. The first of these is the MP Vasil Antonov on the total value of the funds actually entered in Bulgaria on European projects, programmes and other funding from the European budget for the period 1 January 2007. 31 December 2015 and the ratio of their distribution between Northern and Southern Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister! Actually, you heard my question. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the lag of Northern Bulgaria has been highlighted more than once. If this trend is maintained, the danger of a number of settlements in Northern Bulgaria going into the phase of irreversible depopulation is real. In many cities and settlements there will be no one left, something that is already becoming a real fact, and not in recent years, but from longer. The role of the government in this process is extremely important. Stara Planina divides our country into two halves and it is, unfortunately, not fully used for the development of the North, but is a significant obstacle to the economic integration of the state. There will be no northern Bulgaria, and soon there will be no highways and good roads. This is also one of the reasons for the lack of investment in this part of the country. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, if there is no understanding that overcoming the disproportion in the development of Northern Bulgaria should be a government priority through the financial means coming from the European Union to overcome the abandonment of Northern Bulgaria, then this part of the country is doomed. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the total value of the funds actually entered in Bulgaria on European projects, programmes and other funding from the European budget for the period from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2015 and the ratio of their distribution between North and South Bulgaria? I look forward to your specific response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u180	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Here you are, dear Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u181	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, as I agree with a large part of the findings contained in your question, I would prefer to discuss what are possible policies for economic vitalisation of the North, given that it is significantly economically backward towards the South, rather than loading you with detailed statistical information. Moreover, the same information can very much be obtained from the public module of the ISUN system, but since I am precise I will try as far as possible, you will understand why I say this, to answer your question, and by the next procedure, if it allows time, I would share my view on what are the North's development policies. The funds paid as of 24 June this year to the beneficiaries of projects financed by the Structural and Cohesion Fund, the Rural Development Programme, the Development Programme for the Sector BGN, which includes national co-financing. Given the investment nature of much of the projects, not a small part of them have mandatory participation by the beneficiaries, which for some of them reaches 15%. The funds that have been paid to beneficiaries from the operational programmes alone are worth about 15 billion. lv. And here comes the few methodological details that I want to make, which will probably make it difficult for you when you do a check yourself at Isun. Firstly, in terms of much of the projects, it is very difficult or impossible to identify the exact place of implementation, because they define a national character. I can comment on all national projects, which, for example, cover the territory of the whole country..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Moreover, according to ISU, over 2500 projects worth 4.5 billion. lv. The beneficiaries refer to the territory of Bulgaria as a place of implementation without connecting it to any particular area. One more clarification I have to make, and it has to do with the capital. The fact is that it as both economic and demographic profiles largely distorts the picture between the North and the South. Not that I say anything other than what you have stated in your question, but it will not be a correct comparison if in any case we include Sofia in it. However, when we comment on the regional allocation of European funds, it is essential that we take into account the specifics of the individual programmes and the needs they aim to cover. For example, the Operational Programme "Environment," you know what objectives the Programme is aimed at and what projects it funds. Data show that the allocation of funds invested in the construction of ecological infrastructure, if not reported, under this agreement, Sofia Municipality, respectively in the North and South are one by 1.09, but this is provided that we do not take into account Sofia Municipality. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] To be brief, the comparison is similar if we comment on the funds under the Operational Programme "Regional Development" but mainly with the agreement that we leave the capital, which focuses a quarter of the population of Bulgaria on the side. Otherwise, the data would be completely different. The only programme, without this conditionality and without the agreement that we exclude the capital, where there is a balanced distribution of funds, is the Rural Development Programme, for explained reasons. In order to understand what the importance of the capital is, whose gross domestic product per capita differs from the second area more than twice, and with the last district, about five or six times, if we compare the Northwestern region with the Southwestern region, the data, as you can imagine, will be dramatically different by any indicator, including by the European Union's use of funds. But if you take the capital out of the Southwest, you may be surprised to find that the data of the Southwest without the capital is even lower than the Northwest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u182	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You delayed the time by almost a minute and a half, but what you said was extremely important for Northwestern Bulgaria, for all of Northern Bulgaria. I hope you'll save that time in the line. Here's a line for you, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I understand your desire for a pragmatic response and the desire to separate Northern and Southern Bulgaria and, of course, the capital city, but I will only give you two examples in which I want to raise the question that you are not quite specific. On the issue of the renovation of housing programs, which started entirely with the new cabinet Borisov, the ratio of the exclusion of the capital in relation to Northern and Southern Bulgaria is one to three and a half times in favour of South Bulgaria. Here we make a somewhat analogy with the budget funds that are being spent because we must not exclude them. The decree, which was precisely for the repair of the roads, was also not for the benefit of Northern Bulgaria. In terms of energy efficiency, with the separation of the capital, the presence of this amount is one to 5.5 times in favour of South Bulgaria. I do not give these examples to disprove you, but rather to put attention once again to the serious problems in Northern Bulgaria, the serious problems of Northwestern Bulgaria, in which Pleven and Pleven district have long been involved. It's more of a concern. You can regulate European funds and direct them in this direction. You are right, in so far as not everything can be taken into account and it is logical to share this, but without a long-standing direction and management of budget expenditure in this direction, the costs in terms of eliminating this backwardness of Northern Bulgaria against South will make us two separate countries: increasingly backward North and prosperous South. I say this without opposing the North of the South, and with pain that the North is falling behind right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u184	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u185	Dear Mr. Antonov, I will try to be as pragmatic as possible in the answer, paying attention to you that any direct comparison between the North and the South is not quite correct because, including Sofia in the South, the difference between the population is twice compared to the North and the South, but the goal is not to argue. I commented that much more important is what can be done. Here it is right to go back to some of the defects with which the old programming period was framed, where some of the reasons for the differences that we are commenting on are rooted. We have objective factors that we cannot overcome, for example, the concentration of European transport corridors from the TNT network in southern Bulgaria and the need to build them or rehabilitate them. As far as you know, funds from the Cohesion Fund can only be spent on European transport corridors, but this is not the only defect. Competitive start. The competitive start, which was followed in the first years of the implementation of the programming period, has put in a more backward situation a large part of the municipalities of the North, especially in the North-West. I would like to assure you that this approach is fully reviewed by the competitor, especially in municipal investment measures, and we are already working with entirely redefined projects. Moreover, projects with private beneficiaries under the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" and the Rural Development Programme, which are from the North-West, already have bonus points. Due to the fact that the undertaking is registered there, they receive, for example, five bonus points, giving effect. If you look at the latest OPEC competitions, you will see that we have as many companies from the Northwest who have approved projects and signed contracts as we have never had. Of course, this should be monitored extremely carefully, because it gives a chance to abuse the migration of companies only and only in order to obtain a higher number of points. And to get to the transport connectivity, it is, of course, not the only step, but it must, in sync with all the other steps, be resolved as well. However, in the North we have at least three corridors, unless we count the Danube River, which is also a corridor. Four and nine, plus "Hemus" which de facto is a European corridor, albeit with a lower priority. With funds from the budget, and if there is an opportunity with funds from the operational programmes, in subsequent years, in order to have a transport level between the North and the South, these corridors must be built.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u186	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The second question provided for in today's program, to which you will answer, is by the National Representative Prof. Rumen Gechev regarding the unsolved fraud of 1 million. Three hundred thousand. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Donchev, in the report of the European Union Agency 17 sets out a specific example of violation of public procurement procedures organised by Bulgarian state institutions. The report states that it is a 1.3 million fraud. EUR in connection with the supply of equipment to a company which is subject to the activity of freezing and storage of fruit and vegetables. It appears from the OLAF investigation that the guarantor and the supplier of the equipment is the same person who makes the delivery on its own at repeatedly increased prices. The same investigation comes to the conclusion, and I quote: the whole project does not meet the legal conditions for European financing and this was possible because of manipulated procurement procedures. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following related questions: First of all, what personnel measures did you take after you became aware of the specific employees and directors whose signatures stand under this deception, because the probability of this being their first and last manipulation, i.e. being an exception, is small? Did you hand over the persons in question to the investigating Bulgarian institutions and remove them from the responsible units and institutions in which they work? Secondly, what concrete actions have you taken to establish the reasons and conditions that have made this fraud possible with the apparent involvement of several employees and heads of units whose signatures are placed on the contract and the corresponding file relating to this contract? Thirdly, why has no state institution reacted to any stage of the preparation and realization of the fraud, and the investigation has been initiated by other OLAF sources? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u188	Thank you. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u189	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gechev, I just need to make one clarification about the question you asked me. There is no comment in the report or findings relating to public procurement organised by state institutions. The case in question concerns a procedure organised by a private company. Given that all the data that I am prepared to provide to you are part of the procedural action, I had some doubts as to whether they should be made public. We are deciding that Parliament as a supreme authority and transparency, as a priority, must be taken into account, so in the short time we have available, I will try to give you as much information as possible on this case. On the basis of an audit survey in the scope of the examiners, a project submitted by the company "Ekovita" EOD was entered, with initial doubts related to the supply of second-hand equipment. This is one of the major risks not only in Bulgaria but also in other Member States when it comes to supplying machines. A verification started by the European Anti-Fraud Office in 2012 and found that there was a doubt about the supply of goods at high prices, a manipulated order to select a supplier of equipment and a doubt about the purchase of second-hand equipment. Some of these doubts are confirmed during the course of the investigation. The scheme, in order to save time, is a relatively simple company that manufactures the machine in question. She manufactures it and sells it to another company worth 1.3 million. Euros. The second company, following the procedure, supplied the beneficiary with the manufactured equipment. However, the price is now close to 2.9 million here. EUR, with no data in the commercial transaction between the first and second companies in relation to the equipment, any improvements have been made. In other words, we have a typical scheme known as "Maibox campany" or a company called "Mailbox." Moreover, during the investigation, it is established that there is evidence of connectivity between the person who owns the company beneficiary Although it is difficult to establish, in so far as the supplier company has a nominal owner of capital, which, however, acts on the sole basis of the order of the final owner, who is an Italian citizen, that is to say, we have all the data on connectivity. During the investigation, including the verifiers requested information from Luxembourg to verify the existence of a possible money-giving scheme under the table if we use the household term. Why did this happen? If you want me to be as short as possible, the big difference is that when it comes to companies in Bulgaria, the employees of the State Fund are able to search for any signs of connectivity in the Commercial Register. The same is very difficult or almost impossible when it comes to companies registered in other parts of Europe and this is one of the problems of the old programming period. The reviewers during the implementation of the project have identified other defects or irregularities for which, by the way, a financial correction of around 200 thousand has been imposed. lv. Besides, getting to the level of detail, for example, the examiners have doubted why some of the equipment on the machine is freshly painted. They asked for clarification from suppliers by having received the answer that the paint in question was made so that the system could be in the same color. Following the investigations, following the receipt of the final OLAF report, the State Fund.......................................................................................... At present, it is known that pre-trial proceedings have been initiated in the case, and a list of all employees of the State Fund who are involved in the case is available and interrogated. The practice is such that it is also Bulgarian practice, and the European Commission that no other action is taken until the ruling of the court. In between, proof of this is that the European Commission itself has not withheld the same amount from Bulgaria so far. Everyone is waiting for the ruling of the court and the establishment of the blame of the persons who run the company in question, as well as if evidence of officials involved in this act is found.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u190	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u191	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Donchev! Yes, it has been a case since 2012, but, honourable Members, I deliberately raise this issue, as it concerns many other cases and it is an approach of the Bulgarian state. I cannot accept that it has been categorically proven that this is about complete manipulation, and I quote,..manipulated procedures of the public procurement...............................and whether a private company, state, cooperative or otherwise is involved. It is important that the procedures were conducted by a Bulgarian state institution in 2012 and this procedure was manipulated. This has been categorically proven, we don't have to wait for the court's ruling. Secondly, it is proven and is not subject to doubt that the employees who put their signature and stamp on the contract lied to the Bulgarian state, lied to the European institutions. To what end? To help some Italian who came to Bulgaria and registered a second Bulgarian company? No! Obviously, it's about corrupt practices. We cannot agree, honourable Members, that it has already been four or five years and the same employees, heads of departments, managing funds stand in their jobs, paying them the Bulgarian state, they continue most likely to steal and lie, as has been proved by OLAF. How can the state not have tools at least to displace these people or release them from work on the basis of concrete facts?! Of course the government is not replacing the judiciary, there is a division of authorities. It is not that the Bulgarian government should condemn these people, but at least these people should have been released from these state institutions long ago, and we know perfectly well that there are enough mechanisms for this, right? I think that the Bulgarian government, whichever it is, should consider this issue once again, because unfortunately, we have many cases of similar frauds. It should be clear to the employees in the Bulgarian administration that when it is proved by facts that they have broken the law, their place is not in the system of state institutions, but elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u192	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u193	Dear Mr. Gechev, mobilizing efforts to keep the pragmatic tone, I will make a note: you do not know the procedure. In the case of a tender for the purchase of equipment by a private beneficiary, the procedure shall not be organised by the State. She's being organized by the company. The role of state officials is to check the procedure and find irregularities. If we're talking here that someone hasn't done their job, eventually, he hasn't done his job with regard to the exercise of adequate, quality control. There's one particular reason for this, and I marked it just now, we're exploring, I'd say, pretty well based on the data that's in the Trade Register. We have a problem when companies are from other Member States, where not always such verification is possible. This was the reason why Bulgaria was one of the first Member States to join the new European system "Rahne" where such checks can be carried out quickly and qualitatively throughout the entire European Union, in each Member State. I've worked with this system. Any form of possible commitment.. direct, indirect, as a reason for a sanction, as a reason for disapproval or as a reason for doubt there is very clearly seen. It is indeed sad that there are still several Member States that do not participate in this system, which does not allow us to be as effective as possible, checking data on the connectivity of companies registered in these countries. After the introduction of the Rahne (Rahne) system works in a completely different way. And any form of connectivity can be checked immediately. This is really gonna make a difference. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that there are fraud attempts everywhere. There is no Member State where there is no attempted fraud. The question is that the state, including the judiciary, should be extremely uncompromising to any attempt at fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u194	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. We are now going to answer current questions from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski. The first question will be asked by the people representative Willy Lilkov about the construction of the Intermodal Terminal and the construction of the port of Central and the building of the River Station in Vidin. Mr. Lilkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Moskovski, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is related to the following: Dear Mr. Moskovski, on March 17, 2015 on a visit to Vidin, you stated that the design and construction of an intercultural terminal in the city is under way, and the reasons for this point were that Vidin's equal distance from three European capitals "Sofia, Bucharest and Belgrade," and the presence of the new modern bridge "Dunav 2" above the Danube. You said about its value was estimated at about 10 million. lv. The design works and that it is quite possible in the coming months to start the construction of the Intermodal terminal. In addition, you have announced something that is expected for a long time that a procedure for concessionation of the port is started in the town of Vidin and concession of the building of the River Station. My question is this: when does the construction of the Intermodal Terminal begin? At what stage is the preparation for concessionation of the port in Vidin and the building of the River Station? Questions that have long been put to the attention of the visionary public, but now they expect realization to begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u196	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u197	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Lilkov! As is known, Vidin is located along two corridors of Europe's main tennis network. In order to improve the existing logistics platform and in order to facilitate and improve the conditions for the transport of goods in the country, as well as in the countries of the European Union, a State-owned Port Infrastructure company, a draft proposal for the construction of an intermediate terminal in Vidin, called Vidin-Connect. We included the same one in the list and proposed to the project proposals in the Connecting Europe Facility, the so-called "Connecting Europe Facility" and the project proposal "Vidin-Connect" is a study that will take place in two phases of the analysis phase and preparation of proposals for the design of an intercultural terminal. Unfortunately, the project was not approved and will be re-entered in September. The project has a third call for project selection. The funding of this project would be possible if it were approved after the autumn call for project selection. The funding can also be expected to be in an 85% EU contribution ratio and 15% national funding, for which we are ready through a state enterprise and a Port Infrastructure. On the second issue, concerning the concessionation of the port terminal Vidin-Center, currently in the Ministry, the preparatory actions to grant a concession to the port terminal Vidin Centre are being carried out, jointly with the Municipality of Vidin, as the existing building of the River Station is public municipal property, which the current port operator uses for rent for administrative management purposes. The building is three-storey with an area of 865 square meters with good functionality in communication links between the three passenger transport sites of the city, namely railway station, bus station and river station, which creates convenience for arriving and departing passengers without the need for additional transport. The provision of a joint concession for a service with the Municipality of Vidin will exclude the need for the future concessionaire to build its own administrative building, as it will be able to use the existing River Station, as well as allow the investment of the concessionaire to modernise in its type of internal development and in order to improve the quality of the passenger services provided. At present, concession analyses are being prepared for the port terminal "Vidin-Centre" a legal, financial economic and technical project. In the event that the concession analyses justify the appropriateness as well as the legality of granting a concession, the Ministry, together with the municipality, will take appropriate action to initiate this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will say two things: I am pleased with this, Minister Moskovski, that you are telling me the truth, and the truth is that there is no readiness at all for the first question of the Intermodal Terminal. We're still at work on intentions. My recommendation is, especially when going to Vidin, especially when political visits are being made, to observe two principles: the first one is to speak the truth to people, because from one year all the visionary media and the public turnover, as they say, is going to work on project preparation and almost next month will start building the intercultural terminal and that the concession begins. We're very far from those stages. The second thing is not to approach a concession, especially a building which is public municipal property, and a port which is an integral part of the Vidin city garden and not to ask the Municipal Council of Vidin. When I ask people from the municipal council, Chairman of the Municipal Council, Mayor, District Governor: Was there anything discussed with you? Very please, except that procedures must be followed, but we should also ask the citizens of Vidin and not to make such promises, like the promise of modernization of the line Vidin Medkovets. This had become a pre-election gum in three campaigns, and finally February this year we said: "This is no longer a priority. " Let us be much more careful when we promise and when we make any statements to the citizens at all, not only to the citizens of Vidin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u200	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Mr. Minister, would you like to use the backrest? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u201	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, I would be grateful if you could provide me with some reliable information in which I have said that within a month there will be construction of such an intermediate terminal. All requests and statements that I have made are currently being followed correctly and every preparatory procedure, especially for transport infrastructure project, takes time, these are the award of analyses and so on, especially for concessions that are under the Public Procurement Act. They have deadlines that do not allow, of course, in such short periods to progress more dynamically and faster. Regarding the concession it is important to ask in the municipality why it is not debated with the public in the city of Vidin or with the Municipal Council. I am absolutely ready to accept any one or I, respectively, to come to Vidin to provide the data that concerns the port part of the Vidin-Center, so I am not running away from such a debate. I'm counting on it and I think it's right for the municipality of Vidin to introduce the public. Again, when the analyses come out, then it will be clear both the legality and the appropriateness of carrying out such a procedure. This is a right-wing measure, a right-wing policy, I believe, and I believe it is right to apply if the analyses show this, if not, it will continue in its existing state. If that's what River Station looks like to you, then that's what it's gonna be like.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is once again from the National Representative Villas Lilkov concerning the urgent repair of the Post Station in the village of Gradets, Vidin municipality, owned by the Bulgarian Post Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u203	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Moskovski, I am prepared to arrange such a meeting in Vidin, and if you respond, we will go together to discuss these topics. I am for every single project and every investment targeted in this region. Now from Vidin "about 20 kilometers," in the village of Gradets. I took the liberty of asking this question, as the mayor of the village of Gradets, Mr. Ilija Tomov, has repeatedly referred to the Bulgarian Post Office and the Ministry of Transport for one problem. In the center of the village there is a nice, large two-storey building that was built many years ago with the funds of the people of the village. It was subsequently given to the Bulgarian Post Office, which operated this building for a period until its burning several years ago. From this moment, for more than four or five years, this building has been burned down, completely uninhabited, ugly emblem of total carelessness and idleness. At the same time, the Bulgarian Post Office has rented a small space in another building where it pays rent and about 6000 BGN are allocated. for repair and total costs so far are about 10 800 BGN. That's the kind of account Mr. Tomov and I used to make with the mayor. The mayor of the village repeatedly alarmed and asked the Bulgarian Post Office to renovate their building, to return the mail where it is, because at the moment it is a very small room that serves the people of the village and it is not very convenient that they often stand in rain, in cold, in heat when they should receive pensions or be served, and at the same time it cannot be allowed such a large building, which is owned by the Bulgarian Post Offices, to desert. That's the point of the letters the mayor sent. They have not received a satisfactory answer and I therefore allow myself to ask you this question: what will you do to be able to solve this several-year problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u204	Thank you. For an answer, Minister Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u205	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the House! Mr. Lilkov, not four or five years of fire occurred on 19 April 2004. The former post office with an area of 152,25 sq. m was located on the first floor in a two-storey massive building with an outdoor bathroom, notice, in ownership with the Bulgarian telecommunications company. As I said, the fire started in 2004, April. The building was completely burned, with the plate between the first and second floors burst and the curved, permanently deformed. Urgent measures have been taken to strengthen and prevent total collapse of the building. In this context, a constant statement of its state is prepared by applying together with photo material to the folder, I can then provide it to you............................................................................................................ BGN, of which about 42 thousand. lv. are at the expense of BTC JSC. After the fire and the destruction of the building, the town hall provides the Bulgarian Post Office with a post office space on part of the second floor in a municipal property building. In the process of work there are numerous complaints from elderly people that they do not have normal access, as they have to go up steep steps on the second floor and on 8 January 2013 the postmaster in Vidin Mrs. Dzhambazova has held a meeting with Mr. Tomov, Mayor of the village of Gradets. The meeting was requested by Mrs. Jambazova a more suitable room for a post office, but then Mr. Tomov replied that he did not have one. To provide an accessible environment for all citizens Mrs. Dzhambazova rents another room located on the ground floor with a rent of 120 BGN. per month and having an indoor bathroom. The same is being repaired, as you mentioned, for about 6,000. BGN, to create normal and safe working conditions. On 20 July 2012 in implementation Order No RD 02-11-6018 of the Deputy Mayor of Vidin Municipality, in connection with a letter from Mr. Tomov, a commission was appointed to check the condition of the burned building. The representative of BTC JSC, who attended the meeting and participated in the committee, said that the company will not engage and participate in investment activities in its part of the property. In such a coincidence, the Bulgarian Post Office definitely does not have this financial resource for the overall reconstruction of the building, and it is not functionally possible to restore only its part, even more so that co-ownership is ideal. This is the situation at the moment, we have provided the service of the public in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u206	Thank you, come in for a line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Moskovsky! This is really the situation. I've been there twice, and I know what this is about. I will just add one detail that at the moment the private building, in which is located the premises of the Bulgarian Post Office, which is rented, is declared for sale, so it is not known what will be the fate of this point, which is currently revealed there, but you say that the Bulgarian Post Office will not renovate this room and will not deal with it, that is to say you have no interest in this room. Now the question arises: what are we doing with the building in the center of the village? A two-storey building burned down: what are we going to turn it into?! In a monument of the Bulgarian Post Office, what are we going to do there? That is to say, you cannot, as the owner, say, "We are not going to do this." Any man who has not sanitized his building, who does not maintain his facade, who does not maintain his property in a good way, can be fined by the mayor, and the fines are salty. Only a few weeks ago we voted here amendments to the Cultural Heritage Act, the mayors also have the opportunity to fine. So you can't run away from responsibility for the condition of your building. Find a way to deal with the mayor of Vidin municipality, with the mayor of the village of Gradets and make a decision. And I suggest: we have increased with one more task when we go to Vidin... except for the concession of the River Station and the Intermodal Terminal, we will bounce to 15 kilometers and you will see what this is about. This is one of the largest villages in Vidin municipality. And I repeat, this building is built with the money of the people of the village and is given to the Bulgarian Post Office, so do not run away from responsibility in this way. Your subordinates are looking for a practical solution that is in the interests of the people of the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u208	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. For the doppelganger? You won't use it. [[Reply from Minister Ivaylo Moskovski.]] It's your right, not your duty. Here you go for the dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u209	I would like to make one more clarification, and it is basically in this thesis that we are not owners there. We're not running away from any responsibility, we're co-owners. Given that a private company refuses to commit to renovation or restoration of this building, there is no way to oblige them. And even if we want to, we don't know exactly how much of it to repair, because co-ownership is perfect. There's no way we can do that. We are in no way running away from any responsibility. In the end, I don't know, this is legal to see if it's possible. I don't know, the mayor, if it works for him, let's transfer this property to him the part of the Bulgarian Post Office, and he, if he wants in any way, to implement some events. It seems to me that's where we should be looking for an option. After that burning must have had some details, I need to see if there were insurance, how it was compensated and there to look for. We don't have a physical chance to decide what to do with this property. There we are in perfect ownership with the BTC 42 percent is theirs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u210	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was the last question about today's parliamentary control. The time for such a time has expired provided for in the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. I declare the next regular plenary session on 6 July 2016, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u211	We started at 11:15 P.M. parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-01.u212	But the break started at fifteen, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] I checked with the Secretariat, Mr. Ermenkov, and I received a reply that there was no reason to extend parliamentary control. As you know, there are usually declarations and other political statements on Friday, but no such thing has happened today. This is also the answer from the Secretariat, so I am again announcing the next regular plenary session on 6 July 2016, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
