ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u1	Dear MPs, good afternoon! Please register. Cease registration at 9:15 p.m. Found at 9:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u2	Colleagues, please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Communication: On 8 December this year it was received and distributed to the Members of the National Assembly a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Labour Code adopted in the first vote on 8 December 2016. The project is drawn up by the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy on the grounds of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. In yesterday's plenary session, we discussed: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme, in particular of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development Debates closed. There's a vote coming up. Before that, the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u3	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall make a procedural proposal that the time limit for proposals between first and second reading of the bill for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code be five days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u4	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 131 MPs: 119, no objection, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote the bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Project No P160511). 130 MPs voted: 107 against 16, abstentioned 7. Ratification was voted at first reading. Here's the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u5	Madam President, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask you to propose that a second vote be considered, and the Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u6	We vote. Vote 116 MPs: 95 against 17, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u7	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Project No P160511) A single member. Ratification of the Agreement for the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Environment and Water of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Project No P160511), signed on 28 September 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u8	We vote. [[Noise and lines.]] There's no proposal between first and second... You want the floor? Cancel the vote. Mr. Veliv has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Quite briefly on the texts proposed to us for a second vote. I will not propose editorial amendments so as not to delay ratification itself. However, I would like to draw attention here to the members of this document, which is expected of us, to accept that there are inaccurate expressions. After all, we will receive as a result of this Agreement a National Strategy for Climate Change adaptation and an Action Plan. This adaptation must surely be swallowed instead of adaptation, but it must still be made clear that we will evaluate and limit not at all climate change but adverse climate change. As erroneously indicated on p. 6, there should be a national assessment of the vulnerability and risk of climate change and not climate change at all. There are many other such examples. Ultimately, the risks of adverse climate change will have to be assessed and, of course, in this National adaptation strategy to see what are the chances for our country of favourable climate change. Imagine that, as we all know, one of the climate change that is expected is an increase in temperatures in some parts of the world, including Bulgaria. If in the southern parts, for example, temperatures increase so that certain citrus or other fruits are grown or favorable for our agriculture, why fight such climate change?! Madam President, without making editorial remarks, I am once again focusing on the correctness of speech and the accuracy of those wordings that are given to us for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u10	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. We cannot comment on the content of the Agreement itself. At second reading the subject of debate is the draft Law with its sole member. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the second vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement under discussion. Vote 108 MPs: 90 against 10, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE SOLVENCY. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 2 June 2016. Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to make a procedure for access to the hall of Mrs. Slavea Stoyanova, Mrs. Svetlana Bozhkova and Mrs. Rumyana Tsankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u12	We vote. Vote 110 MPs: 90 against 9, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests if they're here. We're listening, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u13	"Improvement and Supplement to the Waste Management Act." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u14	We vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 2. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u15	In § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov: In § 1. Art. 2, para. 3, p. 2 is amended as follows: "2." animal by-products, including processed products falling within the scope of Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 laying down health rules concerning animal by-products and derived products not intended for human consumption and repealing Regulation (EC) No), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009', with the exception of animal products intended for incineration, disposal and use in biogas or compost installations subject to mandatory compliance with the regulations in force and the requirements for the disposal and use of animal by-products and products produced to ensure public health, as well as to achieve the objectives set out in the Commission's round economy package and to provide the market for food-based products marked with the marking The Commission does not support the proposal. Paragraph 1. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 words. The following points are inserted after point 8 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 2. point 7 is amended as follows: "7." the following wastes where they fall within the scope of European Union legislation which do not govern public relations in relation to waste management: (a) waste water; (b) animal by-products, including processed products falling within the scope of Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 laying down health rules concerning animal by-products and derived products not intended for human consumption and repealing Regulation (EC) No), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009', with the exception of animal products intended for incineration, disposal or use in a biogas or compost installation; c) carcasses of dead but not slaughtered animals, including those killed to stop the spread of epizootic diseases and which are disposed of in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009; (d) waste resulting from the exploration, extraction, processing and storage of mineral raw materials and in the operation of quarries falling within the scope of the Underground Income Act. 3. Points 8-10 are repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u16	This is the Commission's proposal, which generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the version that you proposed for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u17	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u18	Paragraph 1 statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ivan Stankov. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 21, Against 8, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 1 in the version of the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 75 against 6, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u19	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. The first sentence is added: Paragraph 3 - a proposal from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov: "In art. 4 to create para. 8 with the following content. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following 1. In para. 2 after the word "guides" shall be added to the person empowered by him and after the word "case" shall be added "or" shall be added. 2. They're creating an al. 3-8: For the issue of a decision under para. 2 interested parties shall submit an application to the Minister of Environment and Water or to an official authorised by him, to whom they shall apply evidence certifying the fulfilment of each of the conditions laid down in para. 1. (4) The Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him shall assess the compliance of the information in the application and the supporting documentation with the conditions under para. 1 and, where necessary, within one month of the applicant providing further information to clarify the facts and circumstances. (5) Within two months of receipt of the application or from the submission of the additional information under para. 4, the Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him shall rule by reasoned decision under para. 2, containing conditions, measures and restrictions, or reasoned refusal of a decision. (6) In the event of a change in the circumstances specified in the application and in the supporting documentation under para. 3, the applicant shall notify the Minister of Environment and Water in writing or an official authorised by him within 7 days of the change. (7) The Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him shall revoke the decision under para. 2 if a penalty imposed again with a criminal decree of failure to comply with a condition in the decision enters into force. (8) The decision under para. 2, the refusal under para. 5 and the annulment decision under para. 7 shall be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal against the decision does not stop its execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u20	Statements referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3? I won't. We vote on the two paragraphs. Vote 94 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u21	According to § 4 the proposal of the National Representative Borislav Veliev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: Where no mandatory criteria under para. 2 are laid down in European Union legislation. 1 certain waste shall cease to be waste in cases defined by the regulations referred to in Article 1. 13, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 43 or with a regulation of the Minister of Environment and Water, where the relevant waste is outside their scope. 2. A new para is being created. 3: The national specific end-of-life criteria may be determined by the regulations under para. 2. The criteria include maximum limit values for pollutants and rules for reporting the harmful effects of the substance or object on the environment. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and is amended as follows: The Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him shall be a national competent authority for the implementation of the acts of the European Commission adopted in accordance with art. 6 (2) of Directive 2008/98/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on waste and repealing certain Directives (OJ L 312/3 of 22 November 2008.), hereinafter referred to as "Directive 2008/98/EC." 5. The creation of para. 6: The Minister of Environment and Water or an official authorised by him shall be entitled to access the management system of producers within the meaning of the acts of the European Commission adopted in accordance with art. 6 (2) of Directive 2008/98/EC operating in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u22	Statements under paragraphs 4 and 5? I won't. We vote on the two paragraphs. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 4 and 5 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u23	Under § 6 there is a proposal made by the MP Jevdet Chakarov: In § 6, which amends the provision of art. 11, I propose: 1. point 1 of § 6 of the Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act proposing changes to art. 11, para. 1 of the ADR, delete the remaining points, renumber the remaining points and do not change the provisions in force; 2. point 2 of § 6 of the CID of the LU with which the cancellation of art. 11, para. 2 of the IPO, delete the remaining points, renumber the remaining points and keep the provision in force. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u24	Statements? I won't. I'm voting on Mr. Jevdet Chakarov's proposal. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 85 MPs: 19 against 8, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 6 by importer, supported by the Commission. Vote 72 MPs: 67 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u25	Proposal of the MPs Vili Lilkov and Borislav Velikov: A new § 6a is being created: 6a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 is created a new para. 10 with the following content: The accounts, reports and other documents referred to in this Article shall be public and published on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Water within seven days of their submission. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u26	Statements? Welcome first, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u27	Madam President, honourable Members! We support the proposal made by colleague Lilkov, as it is necessary in terms of carrying out public control over waste management activities. This information, which should be public, has been created by these organisations, is provided to the Ministry and there is no problem that it will then be made public so that society can make sure that the relevant organisations meet the recovery and recycling targets. I do not see why you do not want this text to be supported. Aren't we all about having a clean environment, living in better conditions?! Part of this effort is the waste management activities. They must be exposed to society in order for it to exercise its public control. What is the problem with publishing these reports and data? None at all! Please let us all understand the meaning of this text. It is about information already created, submitted to the Ministry and it should be published on the relevant website so that public control can be available to the Ministry, not only administrative control, but also public control by those affected by this activity. That's what I'm talking about. Please support this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u28	Any lines to Mr. Georgiev? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u29	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! There is no reason to have one vote against the proposal of colleagues Willi Lilkov and Velikov. Not a single argument to have one voice against! Colleague Chavdar Georgiev said there is no reason to support the rejection of this proposal. If you ask the importers, they will tell you that the benefiting organizations had some very secret know-how, which, you see, if the society and competitors learned it, would lose their monopoly position. I'll tell you what the truth is and please listen well! Let's take the recovery of motor vehicles. There are organizations in Bulgaria that carry out this activity. In Bulgaria, the ecotax for the use of cars is the most expensive in Europe and twice as expensive as in the next country - Portugal. Germany is zero. Zero is because the price of the metal and the plastic used is sufficient for the processing to be carried out under all necessary environmental and minimum technical requirements. In Bulgaria, organizations that use and have permission have two different statuses. One is that those who have proved that they can carry out this activity in accordance with the Law and environmental requirements have the permission to do so. But only six or seven organizations have the right to collect the fee. It is determined by the State, by the Ministry and is imported into the POWs if you want the State to perform this service. If not, you are going to the organizations that are authorised and they are in agreement, so that I do not say in a cartel, keep a price close to that fee - BGN 250, which has determined the state. This is the secret, honourable Members, for nearly 10 years to maintain this situation. A dozen companies that have fulfilled all the conditions to exploit cars in accordance with the requirements and have contributed 1 million. lv. a fee as a guarantee that they will meet the conditions, do not receive permissions so that the six companies having a monopoly position can collect from the Bulgarian citizens a fee for old and slightly lower for new cars. We need to cut this situation apart after you've learned the truth. The step with Willy Lilkov's proposal is to make it clear what this money is about. In addition to the facilities and installations, during these years they have been going for very expensive properties in Bulgaria and abroad. I therefore believe that this knot can be cut radically both under the Act in force and under its amendment. I appeal to President Plevneliev: Mr. President, by appointing a minister of service for twenty days, he can do a huge job.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u30	Turn to Radev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u31	I'll turn to Radev as well. Wait a minute. Now I turn to Plevneliev: the very first day when your minister of service enters the Ministry, if he signs to the companies that have fulfilled all the conditions that judge the state and those who have condemned the state in third instance, but the judgment is not implemented, natural competition will appear and the fee will fall from five to ten times in days. I'm addressing Radev. If Plevneliev does not do so, Mr. General, when you appoint an Environment Minister, the first day he enters the Ministry, he must sign off on all companies that meet the legal conditions and have paid the fee 1 million. lv. Thus you will do the first significant thing of those you promised the Bulgarian people. If you make a government, gentlemen reformers, please order your minister to do so and we will show you a new style of management and division of corruption schemes! Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u32	That's very thoughtful applause.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u33	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will be as brief as possible. In the documents that are signed with the companies that use these waste, there is a trade secret. This business secret cannot be disclosed and cannot be made public. [[Loud noise in BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u35	Thefts can't be covered up!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u36	Colleagues, you will have the opportunity to replicate!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u37	The information is indicated, as Mr. Bojinov said, the know-how of companies itself, which is a trade secret. This know-how gives the company a competitive advantage to perform at lower prices and win the appropriate procedures. On the other hand, as I said, these contracts are of a private legal nature and information about them is a commercial secret in the reports. But here's something very important under art. 18, para. 2 of the Waste Management Act is explicitly stated: The information contained in them is confidential and is intended solely for use by the Ministry of Environment and Waters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u38	Here's a line for you, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. President of the Commission! In my speech, I mentioned that the only defensive response to this perfect scheme of simplicity and efficiency for robbing hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian families with this unfair and undeserved fee will be what you said. There's some terrible secret...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u40	Know-how.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u41	What know-how?! There are minimal technical and environmental requirements.. what to do with oil, antifreeze, plastic and metal. Only the big know-how is what you do with that 53 million. BGN, which are collected by the six companies parasitically because with the metal they sell can cover all the costs for the assembly of cars and environmental processing. This secret is known by everyone in the Ministry and no one dares to cut it! Colleagues, I call on you to vote on Willy Lilkov's proposal! I wonder why this decent man is doing this right now, so he can't come out and defend his offer! I call on you to vote in favour! If not, my offer to the current and future president remains and the solution to this problem is in their hands. If they are worthy, let them do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u42	Second line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, one thing I would like to highlight. Firstly, what we are discussing at the moment, in the Commission, we have debated it quite a lot. Since there are a series of proposals in this direction, I think my fellow Members have made sure that these changes do not need to be adopted. Secondly, Mr. Ivanov, I would like to remind you that Bulgaria is one of the two countries across the European Union, where more than one company carries out this work to process this kind of waste. I hear some competitions here. The only one is Lithuania. I think it's the second country that has more than one company that carries out this activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u44	Third line? A hole, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am using the right of the duplicate and I would like to read you a paragraph from the letter of the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria (CRIB) regarding this issue: "It should be borne in mind that there is no information system in the world that contains and sensitive commercial and competitive information to which citizens have free and direct access. This includes information systems for waste where access is regulated for certain employees who do not disclose the relevant secrecy. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u46	Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u47	Madam President, Mr. Ivanov! Those privileged organisations are members of the CIB, which is why this opinion has been received. Don't be surprised. That's where they belong!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u48	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u49	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Genov, the problem is not only that these organizations belong to CRIB. You should have said that this position is essentially pointless. You should have said that environmental objectives have priority over commercial operations. This is the essence and this is the wrong opinion of the honourable Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u50	Second line? I won't. Mr. Genov, would you like to use the back? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I vote on Mr. Lilkov's proposal and Mr. Velikov's proposal, the Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 94 MPs: 44, Against 6, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u51	Madam President, I ask for a re-vote procedure...................... a number of colleagues from our group have not been able to vote. You see, they're entering the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u52	We vote. They voted 101 MPs: 48 against 16, 37 abstentions. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u53	Paragraph 7 "Proposition of the National Representative Ivan Stankov: In § 7, Article 7 (b) and (c) and (d) of 1. Al. 4 is amended as follows: For the purpose of meeting the objectives of the initiative. "4 for 1000", supported by Bulgaria at the UN Conference on Climate Change in Paris, December 2015, including waste recovery through decarbonising practices to mitigate the effects of climate change, applying the basic principles of the circular economy for efficient resource use of waste through regeneration practices, switching to zero waste and achieving a fair cost of waste charge through clear and justified economic incentives for citizens and economic operators in the territory of the municipality can be built decentralised systems from waste use sites through low-integrated practices. 2. The new al. 7 is amended as follows: For the playgrounds under para. 3, p. 11th para. 4a, which are provided and operated separately by the municipality: - do not apply the requirements of art. 38, para. 1 sentence first and art. 69, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. - can not place containers.. property of persons under art. 14, para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Jevdet Chakarov. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2: "1." Point 1 of Paragraph 7 of the CID of the LU, which proposes the cancellation of art. 19th para. The provisions in force shall remain in force and the other points shall be renumbered and the provisions in force shall remain in force. Proposal of the MP Vili Lilkov and Borislav Velikov: In § 7, in the new para. Article 7 19 to drop sentence first. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 4 is canceled. 2. They're creating an al. 6 and 7: The areas referred to in paragraph 1 (a) and (b) of this Article shall not be included in the areas referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 3, p. 11 shall be provided and operated independently by the municipality or through the conclusion of a written contract with a person holding an authorisation under art. 35, para. 1 for the activity concerned and for waste under the relevant code according to the ordinance under art. 3, para. 1. (7) For the playgrounds under para. 3, p. 11 which are provided and operated independently by the municipality shall not apply the requirements of art. 38, para. 1 sentence first and art. 69, para. 2 and they shall not be held in containers of property of persons who fulfil their obligations individually or of the benefit organisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u54	Mr. Bojinov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u55	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, at the beginning of this speech I would like to express my deep regret that MPs who have made very meaningful and necessary proposals for adoption do not participate in the debate. I take the floor to protect their proposals. For example, it is extremely appropriate that the proposal of the MPs willy Lilkov and Borislav Velikov to drop para. 7 in art. 19, offered by § 7. Why and what is it about?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u56	They only offer to drop a sentence first.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u57	I suggest that the whole al. 7. Why? Because for a long time we had a debate and argued that sites for collection, storage and processing of waste should be exported to the industrial areas of the settlements. Isn't that right, Mr. Chakarov? ▪ That's how it was. This debate ended with a regulatory decision. Now what do you suggest? To ignore these common arguments and to give the municipalities the right not to comply with these requirements, but to schools, to hospitals, to kindergartens in the city to set up a playground.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u58	And parks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u59	Wherever the municipalities want. Why would they do that with what kind of money? [[Reply from the National Representative Svilen Ivanov.]] Close to people? Well, why did we kick out the private garbage collectors from the city that were close to the neighborhood? You're Vice-President of the Commission and you don't remember the debate or you're being moved by other arguments? These playgrounds will be built with taxpayers' money from the fee, which is, first of all, wrong, but that is what is envisaged. This is sufficient reason to deny this proposal. Secondly, what will municipalities do by building these sites? They will outsource this activity to other private individuals who will be in uncompetitive relations with those who are exported to the industrial zone. Why are you doing this? This proposal of the importer must be diverted and para. 7 of art. Nineteen drop out. That's my offer. Any other vote means that the Members of the National Assembly are either not interested or following some blind directive that has no reasonable explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u60	First line, Mr. Stoilov. Mr. Bozhinov, I take it that in the version of the Commission you have proposed that the whole para be abolished. Seven?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u61	I propose the whole al. 7 down.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Bojinov, in my opinion, clearly explained the reasons for the proposal, but should be clearer in the answer to some of the questions he is asking. I am also surprised that importers are not defending their proposals, which makes me think that perhaps, in the meantime, from submitting the proposal to their discussion, there may have been more attractive proposals. The second, Mr. Bozhinov, when you ask why municipalities would allow places like this to be built, is very clear because several people have to receive in an unacceptable way benefits, because they will most likely give these permissions for this purpose. Isn't it clear what's been going on all these years so we don't have to answer the questions that are being asked? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u63	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u64	Dear Mr. Stoilov, the second part of your speech gives a comprehensive and precise answer to the question you are asking me. That's why I'm not gonna make your ass up. As for the first part, I have long worked with colleagues Velikov and Willy Lilkov. I believe that they are worthy and decent people and are not currently involved in the debate, because, as members of the Reformation bloc, they must be busy with the great political task they are deciding, and I do not allow them to have any influence to give up their reasonable proposals. That's what I think at this point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u65	The debate is closed, the vote is pending. I put to the vote Mr Stankov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. Vote 85 MPs: 25, against 3, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Chakarov's proposal in his unsupported part, and that's what this is all about. 1. They voted 83 MPs: 23, Against 14, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Willy Lilkov and Borislav Velikov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 33, Against 11, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Bojinov during the debate in the version of § 7 on the Commission's report to drop para. 7. Vote 81 MPs: 30 against 30, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 7 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 65, against 10, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u66	Under § 8 there is a proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov: In § 8, Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the By the decree under para. 1. The requirements for the disposal sites of paper and paperboard waste, plastic and glass, including and the conditions for registration of sites, as well as the conditions for transfer of waste to sites under art. 19th para. 3, p. 11 and those under art. 19th para. 4a............................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u67	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Ivan Stankov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. Vote 85 MPs: 28 against 8, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on paragraphs 8 and 9 by importer, which are fully supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 77, none, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u68	There is a proposal from the MP Ivan Stankov: A new § 10 is being created which introduces a new art. 26a: Art. 26a. By decision of the General Assembly: (1) The municipalities of the association may introduce decentralised systems for the recovery and minimization of the quantities of waste for disposal by building a regional system for resource use of waste in accordance with the principles of the circular economy in order to achieve a fair price and waste charge through clear and justified economic incentives for citizens and economic operators in the territory of the association; (2) A Regional Advisory Council with participants from both municipalities and representatives of competent waste management NGOs, local advisory and branch organisations, representatives of Local Initiative Group, farmers, forestry, representatives of scientific organisations, schools and community centers concerned with regional initiatives on waste management and environmental protection may be established. A representative selected by the Advisory Expert Council may participate in the meetings of the General Assembly of the Regional Association with the right to an advisory vote. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u69	Statements? I won't. We are voting on Mr Stankov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 72 MPs: 12, Against 7, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u70	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words in each of the regions referred to in art. 49, para. The following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The methodology for the distribution of the objectives under para. 1 between regions under art. 49, para. 9 and the methods for calculating the implementation of the objectives under para. 1 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 43, para. 5. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32, para. 1 is amended as The waste treatment systems shall, by 1 January 2020 at the latest, ensure preparation for their reuse, recycling and other recovery of non-hazardous construction waste materials, including bulk, by replacing other waste materials in a quantity not less than 70 per cent of their total weight from which natural materials as defined by code 17 05 04 of the waste list under Decision 2000/532/EC are excluded.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u71	Statements? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 10 and 11 in the version of the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u72	According to § 12 there is a proposal of the MPs Willi Lilkov and Borislav Veliev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. According to § 13 there is a proposal of the MPs Willi Lilkov and Borislav Veliev: In § 13, Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the following paragraphs shall be added: 38, para. 5 words "100 BGN" shall be replaced by "1000 BGN." The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Martin Ivanov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 13, Art. 38, para. 5 is amended as follows: The payment of CCM transactions by means of cash shall be allowed where the total value of the transactions with the person concerned does not exceed BGN 1000. within a calendar year. Over this amount during the remainder of the calendar year, transactions with the person concerned shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the preceding subparagraph. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u73	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u74	Madam President, one last attempt to make an explanation, if there are any willing to hear, let them comply with it. What's the offer? One natural person in one year shall not be able to import and receive remuneration of not more than 100 BGN without cost. First of all, there is no such practice for such a low threshold. It has been introduced to increase the abuse of individuals who abuse the use of waste before they become for.................................................................................................. This text of the Law controls the company that accepts the waste and it will carry the sanctions. If this individual visits 80 points with 100 leva. For him, our text is not a barrier until a single information system is introduced to control not only the points whether they have paid the natural person more than 100 BGN on a non-banking basis, but the individuals are also being controlled. Until then, this text is absolutely unnecessary and I am making a formal proposal instead of the proposal of 1000, the number 100 to be replaced by the compromise amount of 500 BGN. Five hundred leva per person for the whole year is the maximum that can be imported and not paid by bank transfer. Sometimes he can carry for 3 leva. Waste and the cost of the bank payment will be proportionate to that money with which he will buy bread today. That is why I am formally proposing that the number Such a discussion was held in the Commission, the Deputy Minister was inclined and I suggest you support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u75	First line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u76	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be as quick as I can. Dear Mr. Bozhinov, do you know what is the amount of waste iron scrap, which is worth 100 BGN.? Do you know what the amount is? Five hundred kilos. Five hundred kilos of household waste can be returned for 100 leva. Can you imagine, for 1,000 leva. It's five tons. What is this waste for five tons that can be returned on the one hand?! On the other hand, the main thing is that the amount I'm talking about for black and non-ferrous metals does not include equipment from stoves, washing machines and so on. It's pure scrap, you know what I mean? So let's leave it 100 leva, let's not open Pandora's box, 'cause it's gonna get scary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u77	Second line? A hole, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u78	Madam President, I am a man who listens to arguments and I have thought about what Mr President says. I'm inclined to withdraw my offer, but I have no explanation why you didn't hear my arguments before. I'm withdrawing my proposal, Mr. Chairman, because I've been thinking about what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u79	Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Willy Lilkov and Borislav Velikov, which the Commission does not support. 90 MPs voted: 31, against 12, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Martin Ivanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 86 MPs: 11 against 15, 60 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on paragraphs 12 and 13 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 71, against 2, abstention 9. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u80	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The transmission of waste in the cases referred to in para. 2 shall be carried out on: 1. Playgrounds under Art. 19th para. 3, p. 11 or through campaigns for separate collection of household waste organised by the mayors of municipalities; 2. persons having an authorisation or a complex permit under art. 35, para. 1 for activities with an OCM or 3. persons holding a registration document for the collection and transport of waste having a contract with persons having an authorisation or a complex permit under art. 35, para. 1 for activities with OCM. 2. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: In cases where metal packaging waste activities are carried out on one site, UEEEO, NUMBA, IMPS and CHCM, waste shall be stored separately on separate parts of the site until they are carried out on their pre-use preparation. In the case of subsequent transmission of HCM waste formed after preparation prior to recovery of metal packaging, UEEEO, NUBA and IMPS, waste shall be reported separately by code and name according to the ordinance under art. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44 are created. 9 and 10: In the cases referred to in Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, Member States shall notify the Commission and the other Member States and the Commission of the results of the evaluation referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to the European Parliament and to the Council and to the European Parliament and to the Council. 5, para. 2 and in accordance with the acts of the European Commission adopted in accordance with art. 6, § 2 of Directive 2008/98/EC, annually by 31 March of the relevant year, provide information to the EEA under the regulation under art. 48, para. 1 for quantities and types of waste that ceased to be waste in the previous year. (10) Persons whose production process a substance or object is defined as a by-product under art. 4 shall submit annually by 31 March of the relevant year information to the ESA under the order of the ordinance under art. 48, para. 1 for the quantities and types of by-products formed in the previous year and the activities for which they were carried out. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 5 shall be added at the end of the period of application of the provisions of this Regulation. (b) c. 8 the words "shopping bags' shall be replaced by "plastic shopping bags'; (c) Points 10 and 11 shall be created: ..10. producers of waste that have ceased to be waste in the cases referred to in art. 5, para. 2 and in accordance with the acts of the European Commission adopted in accordance with art. 6, § 2 of Directive 2008/98/EC; 11. persons whose production process a substance or object is defined as a by-product under art. 4. 2. In para. 7, p. 2 is finally added as a trader and/or broker. 3. A new para is being created. 8. In the register under para. 1, t. 10 shall be entered and: 1. the act in accordance with which the manufacturer operates; 2. the type of waste that has ceased to be waste. 4. The creation of para. 9. In the register under para. 1, t. 11 shall also include the type of by-products. 5. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u81	Statements on paragraphs 14 to 17 included? I won't. We're voting on these four paragraphs. Vote 79 MPs: 71, against 3, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u82	According to § 18 there is a proposal of the MPs Willi Lilkov and Borislav Veliev: In § 18, Art. 48: 1. Allinea 7 to drop; 2. In the new al. 8 to add the text: the EEAS provides publicity of the data in the national information system under the Law on Access to Public Information. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 48th para The keeping of public registers under art. 45, para. 1, the reporting and provision of information, according to the regulations under art. 13, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 48, para. 1 shall be carried out through the National Information System (NIS) supported by the EEA. According to § 19 there is a proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov: In § 19, Article 19 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the following paragraphs shall be added: 49, The plan referred to in paragraph 2 shall be adopted by the (a) be prepared in accordance with the basic principles arising from science, environmental management, by assessing economic efficiency, environmental efficiency and social acceptance of existing practices to ensure public health on the one hand, feed the population and regenerate the basic elements of the environment used through carbon saving methods to limit and mitigate the effects of climate change; (b) must also be accompanied by an impact assessment to achieve both the objectives set and the conditions set for ensuring the strategic objectives: feeding the population, ensuring public health and the introduction of regurgitative circular regional economies. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 50th para In the programme under para. 1 measures shall be laid down in order to break the link between economic growth and environmental impact, human health and cultural heritage related to waste generation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u83	Statements under paragraphs 18, 19 and 20? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor to support the proposal of colleagues Lilkov and Velikov on the fact that the Executive Environment Agency should ensure the publicity of the data in the National Information System. This system was financed and should already have been built during the government's period "Oresharski". So there are no technological obstacles to the system currently operating and providing public information. The text proposed by the Commission concludes that only registers will be public and for the rest of the information the system will probably only be used for business purposes. I therefore believe that the proposal of colleagues Lilkov and Velikov is better, who are talking about the publicity of the information at all. If it is any difficulty for you to disclose all the information, let us clarify in their proposal and I am making an editorial proposal to replace the word............................................................................................ We can't hide...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u85	In which member are you making an editorial proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u86	On the proposal of Lilkov and Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u87	It can't, it's not supported. You can only do editing of...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u88	Okay, okay. It is about this: we cannot fail to disclose quantitative data regarding waste management! It's just...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u89	It's okay!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u90	You can't, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u91	I'll tell you it's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u92	Okay, tell me it's okay, I'll object and explain why. This is no commercial secret. These are data for a factor that affects the environment and especially for hazardous waste all data must be absolutely public. The public must know how to affect the environment through waste. What is there to hide here? Therefore, colleagues, I ask you very much, let us support the proposal of colleagues Lilkov and Velikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u93	- What's the line? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u94	Dear Madam President, Mr. Georgiev, honourable colleagues! I will be as brief as possible, but I cannot help but object to Mr. Georgiev's statement. First of all, why can't information be public? Because the information required by the National Statistical Institute within the meaning of § 1, p. 15 of the Statistics Act is a statistical secret under art. 27 of the Law. According to art. 14 of the Act on the National Revenue Agency similar obligations have the bodies and employees of the Agency and according to art. 17 of the Customs and Customs Officers Act. These are the people who have the right to use it. According to art. 181w, para. 4 of the Consumer Protection Act, the Commission for Consumer Protection and other state bodies shall comply with the requirements for the protection of professional, production and commercial secrecy and shall not disclose any other information. According to § 1, t. 24 of the Ministry of Interior Act is information that is not a state secret, but is related to the performance of functions and so on. The information required by the provisions of the Waste Management Act in question by the abovementioned authorities is a professional secret within the meaning of the relevant laws and therefore the provision of the information under those subparagraphs of the Law is pre-conditioned as impossible. However, the information is provided, albeit in summary form, according to the lower statement, which I do not need to introduce you to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u95	Second line? A hole, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u96	Mr. Chairman, what you have read must have similar texts in other laws, is about collecting data for the relevant business purposes. That's why it's a business secret or something. However, within the meaning of the Environmental Protection Act, if you open Chapter 3 and see art. 17 and the next, you'll see that environmental information is something special. It can't be any secret. It is a means of determining the behaviour of people and of people's organisations, companies, in terms of environmental protection activities. Information determines our behavior and we cannot hide information related to the environment. There's an explicit text, if I'm not mistaken, art. The 23rd, by memory, I am telling you this, where it is explicitly said that certain data cannot be hidden and they are public. There is also an obligation for the media to distribute this information. How will they fulfill that obligation? Please, at least quantitative data on waste management, especially hazardous waste, must be absolutely public and generally available.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u97	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote the proposal of Willy Lilkov and Borislav Veliev. The Commission does not support it. Vote 68 MPs: 20, against 15, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I'm voting on Mr. Ivan Stankov's proposal. The Commission does not support it. There is no quorum, cancel the vote. The legislative part of today's sitting is over. 11:00. I'm in control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u98	Dear Members of the Parliament, the sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. There are no new questions for the time from 2 December to 8 December this year. Written answers for resignations by the ministers: - from Zornitsa Rusinova of Petya Avramova and Krasen Krastev; - from Vladislav Goranov to Ahmed Ahmedov; - by Meglena Kuneva of Willy Lilkov; - from Desislava Taneva to Willy Lilkov; - by Lilyana Pavlova of Willy Lilkov; - from Ivelina Vassileva to Christian Vigenin; - from Ekaterina Zaharieva to Peter Slavov; - from Vladislav Goranov to Martin Dimitrov; - from Bozhidar Lukarski to Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - by Tomislav Donchev of Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - by Tomislav Donchev of Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from Zornitsa Rusinova of Martin Dimitrov; - from Vladislav Goranov to Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - from Ivelina Vassileva to Katya Popova; - by Nikolina Angelkova of Borislav Iglev. The control today starts with a reply from Nikolai Nenchev He will answer a question from the MPs Ivan Valkov and Dimitar Boychev concerning properties with private public property status, located in Burgas area, with a lack of necessity for the Ministry of Defence, intended for carrying out instrumental actions and sales in 2016. We're listening, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u99	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! My question to you, which we asked with my colleague Mr. Boychev, is related to correspondence between the municipalities in Burgas region and the regional governor of Burgas region and the Ministry of Defence. Following this correspondence on the site of the Ministry of Defence in 2013 a number of properties have been uploaded in 2014 with a schedule of their delivery to municipalities in Burgas region. It is the municipality of Burgas, the municipality of Aitos, Tsarevo, Pomorie and Sredets. However, in 2015 the majority of these properties and other properties, which were transferred to private state property, were uploaded to the Ministry's website, but now as property for sale. My question to you is: what has dictated and what were the reasons to change this opinion?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u100	For an answer, the minister of resignation Mr. Nenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u101	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Valkov, dear Mr. Boychev, I will answer you specifically to the question asked. In relation to private and public property in the municipalities of Burgas, Tsarevo, Aytos, Sredets and Pomorie, which were included in the schedule for the provision of property for municipalities, district managers, offices in 2013, some of which are included in the schedule of properties with private status, public ownership with a lack of necessity for the Ministry of Defence, I inform you that the preparation of a free delivery schedule is not mandatory. Moreover, in no case do the municipalities and district managers refuse to include the relevant properties, because they are in extremely poor condition and we have a number of cases where this is happening. All year round in the Ministry of Defence there are requests for free grant from municipalities and departments as well. Each request shall be reported in writing to the Minister of Defence for assessment of appropriateness and a positive penalty, and the relevant procedure may be initiated. Another way of exempting assets with no need is to sell them through auctions. For the properties included in the schedule of properties with status of public and state property with a reduced need for the Ministry of Defence for 2016, an assessment has been made and the trend for effective disposal is leading, sale by auction, with a view to realising revenue in the state budget and reducing property costs, security, payment of property tax, municipal waste fees under the Local Taxes and Fees Act. You ask another question in your question and it is related to the hospital for healing, long-term treatment and rehabilitation. Georgy the Victorious and the City of Pomorie. In this case, I would like to inform you that by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 996 of 17.11.2016 this property, with effect from 2 February 2017, is withdrawn from the Military Medical Academy of Sofia and is provided for free in the management of the Ministry of Defence. By the same decision, the right of ownership of the property and the movable belongings of private state property is paid as a non-cash contribution to the capital of the Multiprofile Hospital for Long-term Treatment and Rehabilitation. To conclude, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Defence's management works in parallel in both fields of sale by auction and free delivery, which is subject to the basic policy of exempting the Ministry of Defence from unnecessary infrastructure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u102	A line from Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u103	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is specifically related to the military sanatorium in the town of Pomorie. Why, given that Pomorie Municipality has asked to be granted this object, has been denied? Pomorie Municipality is in a very good financial condition and can invest in this site and therefore provide such a social function to both the employees of the Ministry and those who wish, why was it not provided to it as it was, provided that you have also changed the status of the establishment itself from public state to private state property, provided that if it were granted to the Municipality of Pomorie, its status would be public municipal property, which is very worrying for us? And another thing that is also very disturbing for the workers. Last week there was a meeting between a representative of the trading company that would acquire the ownership of the sanatorium. He has stated that he will begin repairs after 2 February, when the decree enters into force. Expects absolutely all workers to submit applications for exit. Once the repairs are complete, they will be reassigned. Literally yesterday he came to us with information that this establishment was unable to heat up, ran out of fuel. This leads to a literal termination of its function. They have asked the Municipality of Pomorie to provide them with five tonnes of fuel for heating the sanatorium, which is very disturbing. I'm gonna have to ask you to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u104	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u105	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Valkov and Mr. Boychev! Firstly, I would like to inform you that the issue has been dealt with very thoroughly and in detail in both the Defence Committee in the National Assembly and the Defence Council. They prevailed the opinions and opinions that this hospital should remain in the assets of the Ministry of Defence. We are transferring it to another hospital that is successfully developing and has positive revenue. These were the main elements that led me to make such a decision accordingly. On the other hand, with regard to property, I would like to say that I have always been a supporter to donate them to the respective municipality or district management, and that is what I am doing. In this case, that is why the Defence Council is, therefore, there is the Defence Committee, which has spoken very clearly and categorically. On the basis of these opinions, I have also taken my decision, which I consider justified. Let time tell. About the properties, I'd like to say a few more words. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen of the House, we are putting in a huge amount of money to maintain the property. Most of them are in terrible condition, we pay security. I'm sure you'd be particularly surprised if I told you we were paying about 20 million. lv. Each year for the maintenance of properties with a reduced need. It's not about hospitals, it's real estate with a bad need. I would also like to say to you that I have ordered a list of all properties with a devoid need, and the lists are made available to the respective municipalities and district managers to assess whether they need them. In many cases, I have tried to donate properties, but I am getting a firm refusal from the respective municipality, because funds must be invested because buildings must be destroyed and it is better to do so. I continue with this policy as far as possible. In any particular case, when possible and at the discretion of the experts in the Ministry I will provide these properties to the respective district management or municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u106	Next questions to the Minister of Energy Mrs. Petkova. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will also be responsible for the resignation of Daniel Mitov. First they will ask their question to Minister Petkova Daniela Panayotova and Georg Georgiev about building the first stage of a national repository for low- and medium-active radioactive waste. Here you go, Mrs. Panayotova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Petkova, the contract for the construction of the first stage of the national repository for low- and medium-active radioactive waste was signed on 7 July 2016. The construction of such a type of repository is a national priority for our policy. The object will be strategic in terms of national security. In this regard, our questions to you from my side and from my colleague Georgiev are the following. First of all, does the functioning of the repository have a cash register with the decommissioning of the stopped first to fourth block of the nuclear power plant? Secondly, who is entrusted with managing the project? When are building permits expected to be issued for the purpose of timely initiation of construction works on the site? Is there any clarity as to the time limits in which the repository is expected to be put into service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u108	For a response Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u109	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear Mrs. Panayotova, dear Mr. Georgiev! Safe management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste, including the construction of a national repository for the disposal of low- and medium-active waste, are one of the main priorities of the government's program for stable development of Bulgaria. The first stage of the construction of a national storage facility for low- and medium-active radioactive waste is intended for the storage of processed and conditioned radioactive waste from the decommissioning of units from 1st to 4th of the nuclear power plant. By decision of the Council of Ministers No 683 of 25 July 2005, the construction of the national repository was entrusted to the State-owned enterprise. The management of the project is carried out by the state enterprise and an international consultant. The construction of the national repository requires a construction permit from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, respectively under the Law on Construction in the Area, and a building permit from the Nuclear Regulatory Agency. Such authorisations may be granted after having received environmental assessment decisions by the Ministry of Environment and Water. The activities related to the EIA procedure in national and cross-border aspects have now been completed. In April 2015, public discussions were held in 11 settlements in Bulgaria. On 9 June 2016, a public discussion took place in Craiova, Romania and the Romanian side's written proposals, which can be found in the plan to implement the measures of the EIA decision. On 15 December this year, a meeting of the High Expert Environmental Council of the Ministry of Environment and Water for discussion and decision-making on the approval of the EIA Report of the National Warehouse is scheduled. The warehouse will be a multi-barrel surface modular engineering facility located in close proximity to the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" at the site "Radiana" which received the status of an object of national importance as well as a national site. The construction of the national repository is intended to take place in the period 2016. The introduction into operation of the facility is foreseen for 2021 with a period of operation of 65 years. This period for putting the repository into service is also laid down in the updated spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste management strategy by 2030, which is expected to be updated by the Strategy. It was adopted in 2015. On 7 July 2016, a contract was concluded with a contractor for the construction of the first stage of the national repository. The preparatory work on the site has been carried out since 2014. The funds for the construction of the national repository shall be provided by the International Fund of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and by the Fund of Radioactive Wastes, providing the activities of the State-owned enterprise, Radioactive Wastes, in accordance with the budgetary procedure for the year concerned and on the basis of an approved annual work programme of the enterprise. At the first stage, the first module of the warehouse will be built - 22 cells, which will absorb 6336 pieces of concrete containers, as well as the entire infrastructure of the site. The construction of the second and third modules will be carried out in accordance with the rate of generation of radioactive waste from the operation of the nuclear power plant, as well as radioactive waste from other nuclear applications from industry, medicine, agriculture and research. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u110	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? You're not going to use the law. We move on to the next question, which has a common answer, he is from the MPs Mithat Metin and Martin Dimitrov. The first will be the people's representative Mithat Metin on the prospects of the project. Here you are, Metin Bey.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the shorthand protocol, I would point out that this question was addressed to the Minister on 27 July... exactly four months ago. A period in which the political horizon before the government looked differently. During this four-month period, a number of developments have taken place in relation to the intervention of the independent judiciary and we have raised charges against three former ministers related to the project, and I am also currently working on a temporary parliamentary inquiry committee to which I am a member. In this period of four months we receive from the media, including you, Madam Minister, constant information about the project's prospects, which concern the presence of new investors. Nevertheless, I will correct the question, as set out in its written format. Dear Minister, the events in recent months related to the ruling of the arbitration tribunal before the International Chamber of Commerce, according to which Bulgaria has been sentenced to pay 550 million. EUR for equipment ordered and more than 50 million. The euro annual interest rate of Rosatom once again put on the agenda this delicate international issue for our country. At this point in society and in me there are several questions about the future of the NPP project "Belene" related to your visits to the Republic of Iran and Russia, which we all expect in development. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: firstly, is there an agreement between If your answer to the first question is none, then I ask: Is the documentation prepared in your office for the privatisation of the nuclear power plant by secessing the plant into a separate project campaign? And in this regard, do you view Rosatom as a possible investor? And last but not least, are you viewing as a possible option the case where the state itself builds the nuclear power plant, Belene, and is this reflected in the energy strategy that you are preparing about what new nuclear capacity Bulgaria will reach in 2030? A thousand or 2,000 megawatts, respectively? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u112	Thank you, Metin Bey. The next question is from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov on the proposals launched by government representatives for the realization of NPP "Belene" as a private project. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u113	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! We have received and you are all hearing information, including from the government, that it was possible to implement it as a private project. Over the years, I have heard this thesis many times from different governments. Various private investors were invited, even you know, there was one such more lasting interest, but the result so far is only one Not a single lev has been paid by the so-called private investors. In other words, there are conversations with them, but when it comes to payment of the bill, the Bulgarian taxpayers pay the bill 100% so far. Now in this arbitration case, the account will be paid again by the Bulgarian taxpayers, including through the loan, which will be given to NEK. So one is wishes, the other is reality. The reality is that taxpayers pay the bill. My specific question to you, Madam Minister, is: is there a black of white interest from investors? Since we read in the Bulgarian media, the first talk was that there were American investors, now there is talk of Chinese investors. In fact, if someone decides to continue the project "Belene", I am convinced of an investor will be talked about when the bill comes to be paid again, as it has always been since the beginning of this project many years ago, it will come to the Bulgarian taxpayers. I am absolutely certain of that, Madam Secretary. So my question to you is: is there a black-and-white interest by investors, or are these rumors that are on purpose being released to find a basis, be it the next office to be appointed by Rumen Radev, whether it is a next cabinet to resume the project? Is there a black of white real interest from investors, whether American, Chinese, or whatever you say? But if there is one, please be specific about this interest in what exactly did he express himself? What exactly is its form and what has the Bulgarian government done so far? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u114	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you are, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Metin, dear Mr. Dimitrov, the topic related to NPP Belene, has always been very important and very discussional. This topic has been discussed for years. We are all witnesses to its development and we have all seen how the International Commercial Arbitration ruled on 14 June this year. I would just like to recall that the International Commercial Arbitration came up with a decision according to which the National Electricity Company was ordered to pay what on 5 November 2008, pursuant to Appendix No 5, the former two CEOs of the National Electricity Company ordered the I open a clamp and I say, "No contract for the construction of this plant without clear financial parameters." All of us today are forced to look for a solution to this issue. What have we done within our capabilities, what has the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian Parliament done to solve one of the most complex cases in Bulgarian electricity? We know that, as soon as the arbitration decision came out, the government took immediate measures to seek the possibility of seeking an agreement with the Atomstroyexport. Because if these two reactors were not paid, there were several very significant risks to the Bulgarian energy system. One of the risks was that there was the possibility that the Atomstroyexport would seek compensation on the basis of this decision of International Arbitration, to secure the accounts of the national electricity company, which would lead to a collapse of our entire electricity system. However, the National Electricity Company, apart from a commercial company, should also be seen as a company that is related to the national security of the country. Therefore, when it comes to energy, we need to be very aware that we are not only talking about a company that loses or wins, but we are talking about the national security of the country. That is why our government has taken extremely responsible approaches in this situation, and we have immediately taken measures to seek the possibility of paying this obligation, since we have seen that there is no possibility that it could be challenged, as within the framework of the arbitration of the seven requests of the Atomstroyexport, which were worth 1 billion. 200 million. EUR, only three of them are accepted by the International Commercial Arbitration and they are only those related to the really manufactured equipment. All other claims of the Atomstroyexport are rejected by the International Arbitration as unfounded. Therefore, a special law was adopted with the assistance of you, the Bulgarian MPs, which gave the National Electric Company the opportunity to provide compensation financial assistance, which will be restored to the budget in seven years so that it is certain that the Bulgarian taxpayer will not pay this account again. The national electricity company will repay this obligation to the budget within the deadlines set by the government. We have achieved a very important thing with the agreement that relates to our future actions in relation to this project. Firstly, we were able to negotiate a reduction and a repayment of interest by the Atomstroyexport (ACE) from the date of the decision, i.e. from 14 June to the time of payment. Atomstroyexport..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... euros per day. That is, every day the Bulgarian taxpayers had to charge in their account 167 thousand. Euros. If the National Electricity Company pays its debt by December 15th, the Atomstroyexport will give up these interest rates. Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, yesterday the National Electric Company made a transfer to the ACE account of this amount which we owe under the decision of International Commercial Arbitration. Today, perhaps by the end of the day, the money will be at the expense of the Atomstroyexport, with which we are fulfilling our commitment to pay by 15 December at once the entire amount, and the Atomstroyexport is fulfilling its commitment to absolve the National Electricity Company of all interest accrued from 14 June 2016 until the day on which the money will be on the account of the Atomstroyexport. What happened today is the payment to the Atomstroyexport and the completion of this long-standing saga. The other thing we were able to negotiate with the Atomstroyexport and to protect the country's interests to the maximum extent is the signing of an agreement according to which the Atomstroyexport (ATOmstroyexport) refused claims from investment disputes to the Bulgarian state. I believe that with these actions we have managed to protect the country's interests in terms of the project. As far as the future of this project is concerned, I am one of the people who have always believed that this project should develop if it is developing at all, and it has gone in the wrong direction since its very beginning, because it has not started on market terms, has not gone after an analysis of the real economic situation in terms of how much this energy will cost, how much it will cost to build this nuclear power plant and to whom we will sell this electricity afterwards to get our investment back. In my opinion, and the government's vision is that building a new nuclear power at all is possible only if this project is fully implemented on a market basis and with regard to this project the state has no commitments. Such a project can only be developed if a State guarantee is not required if long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity are not required. In order not to get the Bulgarian taxpayer to pay the bill, our vision is that this project, after we own a site for which I only remind that we have incurred costs of 1 billion. 400 million. BGN, and after today we will also own equipment that costs 1 billion. 200 million. BGN, that's 2 billion. 600 million. lv. The money of the Bulgarian taxpayers, which we cannot waste lightly. Therefore, I believe that what needs to be done from now on is to give this project a chance, if this project has a life in it, that this should be checked through a public and transparent procedure under the order of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control by separating the assets and liabilities of this company into a separate project company and that it is therefore offered for privatisation. Only then can we see what the real investor interest is. Yes, so far, there is such an investor interest. We have held similar meetings with potential investors who want to know what the fate of this project is, what they might expect, but this can only happen within the framework of a public, transparent, legal procedure under the Law on Privatization and Privatization Control. If such a transaction is implemented and if this project company is acquired in that order, then the State will not have any financial commitments to the project. I believe that in this way will be protected to the maximum extent the interests of Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian taxpayers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u116	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? Mr. Metin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u117	Mr. Chairman! Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. In practice, you have responded to my second sub-question that, as the Ministry's leadership, you are looking at the future development of the project "NPP."Belene, the Atomic Power Plant in option....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... With this, you are practically answering the third question. You obviously believe that in your energy strategy you are preparing, you are putting higher capacities..................exactly from 2000 megawatts. I asked this question, led by the sense of debt, because we owe an answer not only to society as a whole in Bulgaria, as a general concept, but I also asked the question as a MP from Pleven, because we owe a clear and correct response to the society in Pleven. For me, it doesn't matter what the economic prospects before Pleven are. Last week another statistical survey came out concerning the economic development of Bulgaria. We understand that Sofians already live in the European Union, have the standard of Europeans. We understand that South Bulgaria, with its industrialization and developed infrastructure, has a predominance over Northern Bulgaria. It is time for Pleven to have his European national project and I openly say, as a Member of the National Assembly from Pleven: it is time for this project to be called the NPP "Belene." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u118	Thank you, Metin Bey. Second line.. People's representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! A few details. First, Madam Minister, after you paid for both reactors, to understand that you had received the consent of the European Commission previously for permissible State aid. I'm asking you to state this very clearly so that we can be calm. With regard to the strategy from now on. Dear colleagues, the seismological risk of the NPP site is one degree higher than the NPP. After what happened in Japan, it is completely irresponsible to go to the construction of a nuclear power plant, all the more so that Bulgaria needs no electricity! For private investors. We heard from the Minister that some contacts have been made, only I am convinced that insurance will not cover all the nuclear risk. I am convinced that the future costs of shutting down reactors will be transferred to the state for generations. I am convinced that the storage of nuclear waste also cannot be taken over by a private investor and paid for by it. That is to say, the huge risk, colleagues I see, is the next cabinet to go to construction of Belene, with all the negative consequences and the costs incurred so far, which can be estimated at about 2 billion, will become 20! Yes, it is initially possible for a private investor to pay some of the money, but I am sure of myself, because this is what I have seen over the years, how these costs will gradually be returned and transferred to the state in different forms, honourable colleagues, with a decision of different governments. The best option is for the reactors to be sold and the issue to be completed - Bulgaria needs no additional power and does not appear to be available any time soon. Moreover, the life of the V and VI reactor of the "Kozloduy" will be successfully extended. New capacities like this, fellow Members, we don't need them. I do not accept the argument that if we have spent 2 billion so far, we have to spend another 20, with the explanation and the apology: I just don't believe it. I don't believe how this investor will be stopped from leaving and saying, "Take care of the reactors, with the nuclear fuel, with its storage, deal with the insurance with all this." [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And the most important question. In a place where the risks are high from a seismological point of view, building a nuclear plant, ladies and gentlemen, is an extremely dangerous occupation. So I call on you as Parliament and you, ma'am, as Minister at the end of the term of office, it would suit you to recommend that the reactors be sold and that the matter be closed once and for all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u120	You've been running out of time for more than a minute, Mr. Dimitrov. I've made you a sign a few times. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. You have four minutes, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Metin, dear Mr. Dimitrov! Firstly, as regards the confirmation of the European Commission's position that this compensation financial assistance, which was granted to the National Electricity Company, is not State aid. Yes, I strongly state that we immediately after the adoption of the Law on 28 September 2016 by the Bulgarian Parliament for the provision of this compensation financial assistance to NEK, the next day on 29 September, have sent to the European Commission a notification regarding the commitments we had in fulfillment of this Law. Then there was a correspondence with the European Commission with the Directorate-General for Risk, on the basis of which we provided all the necessary information, all the evidence, all the analyses requested by the European Commission, as a result of which, on 2 December, we received an opinion from the European Commission that, on the basis of the evidence that we have provided, on the basis of the information analysed, the European Commission considers that there is no such State aid in this case. I can say this very clearly and clearly, and I will be the last person to start breaking the Law at such a time. We must all rest assured that we have respected the point and provision of the Law that you voted for and for which I once again take this opportunity to thank you. Regarding what should happen from now on with the project, as I mentioned earlier, and now I will repeat again, Mr. Dimitrov, really the Bulgarian state has never had the resource to enable it to build this new nuclear power. Let us not forget that we are talking here, after all, about 10 billion. Euros. This isn't about 3, 4 or 5! Such a resource has never had the Bulgarian state before or now. That is why we need to think, first of all, about what we are going to do with these costs that have been incurred so far? We have reactors that we've paid, we have a billion and 400 at the site of Belene, and a billion and 200 that we paid today to the Atomstroyexport. This is the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers. We must seek the opportunity in some way to restore this resource and, on the other hand, if there is such interest and if this project is viable, it can be realized. But, notice the whole market without the participation of the state! And if this option is implemented, which we, our government, pleads to perform a public, transparent privatisation procedure, then we will not talk about a strategic investor. Then we will talk about another owner who will be committed to carrying out all the costs of this project. That's our vision. I think we should try that option. And if then there is no such real investor interest and it is not confirmed, then you will be going in another direction, you will be looking for other options. However, we are obliged to try to restore in some way the resources that Bulgarian taxpayers have paid over the years and to look for some good development of this situation. Believe me, everything we do is entirely in the interests of the Bulgarian state. We have tried and I think we have managed to protect the country's interests to the maximum with these actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u122	Thank you, Madam Secretary. On behalf of GERB Parliamentary Group for Declaration I give the floor to the MP Dessislava Atanasova. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! Dear colleagues, we are seeing today a strange void in the left side of the room, and a strange silence! Where are you, comrades Socialists? You're in office, you're in protocol. [[BSP LB]] or simply, when you have to give uncomfortable answers on questions asked by you, you are absent. Your leader is also missing! As much as you're trying to be noisy right now, where did your enthusiastic Komsomol fire go from Tuesday, Mrs. Ninova, anyway, if you can hear from somewhere when you were waving incriminating documents to the government? Now the questions you asked on Tuesday with reproach, Ms. Ninova and Mrs. Yotova, have found their answer. And not by us, but by the European Commission itself, and in a report from yesterday! A report that we have [[shows document]] We're guessing you guys are gonna get to know each other very much. I ask myself, which way do you need to be shown from Europe that either you cannot read European documents drawn up in Brussels and not at "Positano" or that you are knowingly lying? How many times have you taken the liberty of presenting Bulgaria in a negative light to our European partners, and then, when you were waving accounts, suspended European funds, and then when you were disproved by the Directorate of Agriculture of the European Commission, and now when you are disproved by the Directorate of Migration, and how many lies must be made to you, socialists, in order to make it clear to everyone that you are either incompetent or unprepared, or you do not understand what is written in the documents officially drawn up by the European Commission, or are you simply lying? We know what you're talking about! It must be clear not only to Bulgarian citizens. It is already clear to foreign citizens, who, by the way, come to Bulgaria, meet another lie by Mrs. Ninova, or the quote: "Although the exact conscience of the leader of BSP probably will not slander, insult, lie and twist, this is a proper behavior of the leader of the Socialists. Mr. Rezetnikov, General Rezetnikov, you will not comment either! So, did you have a date or didn't you have a date? Did you discuss Radev or did you not discuss him? Remember Ninova's show, when she stated one thing, in other shows, another? For how long? Maybe it's partisan years! Or does lying always have a bad ending? It's worse when because of this lie, you bet the fate of the Fatherland in the name of conjunctural and selfless considerations. I believe you and I'm with you! This is a quote from my esteemed colleague, who is currently in the parliamentary hall, from the BSP Mr. Ermenkov, you can take a personal explanation. [[Laughter at GERB.]] And your finding that Mrs. Cornelia Ninova is lying is because she's announced you as being taken away from the presidential presidential battle. Do you remember what you wrote on Facebook, Mr. Ermenkov, when the meetings of your municipal councils took place? You can confirm it or deny it, whether it is true or not, whether you distinguish yourself from your own words in your Facebook profile or from your own leader of the Stoletnitsa? One more quote: "Let's continue with some lies that I don't know who they serve, but in no way BSP and the left-wing voter in general, because when you lie to him, he doesn't just get distrustful, but you push him away from the urn, regardless of the legal rules for mandatory voting. Lying is a bad sign in politics at all! This quote is from another former comrade of yours, Rumen Petkov. And again on the occasion of a lady I'm wondering if she's Ninova or just Mrs Lie? [[Applause from GERB.]] I hope you will answer me, honourable Members, because the facts are uncompromising and they are not in your favor. The facts are the report of the European Commission, in which a report clearly and categorically argues. I quote: "In order to support the management of the border and migration in Bulgaria, the Commission provided 160 million. EUR for emergency funding. One hundred and one million euros have already been allocated with the financial payments, and recently applications for funding have been submitted with regard to the special needs for the remaining 59 million. EUR. Official document of the European Commission. Ninova and Yotova, if they decide, they can argue with them as well. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. [[Relations from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] Mr. Ermenkov, please? I understand that after the persistent invitation, the heart does not allow you to refuse. Here you are, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am flattered that colleagues from GERB read my Facebook account. I suppose some of the things there were useful to them because I see that after a year and a half I called them to resign, they finally took my opinion into account as well. I suppose that, as they have read, that our dialogue with the President of the National Council, has read my latest publication on the introduction of a new unit: an idioticism. Read this thing, it will be useful for you. There are others...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u126	These are qualifications!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u127	It seems to me that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u128	Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u129	...that kind of qualifications shouldn't be made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u130	I'm saying what I wrote to read! If they read so carefully, they can read this too. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] As for what you say about our relationship with the President of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, they have long been clarified. The experience of your professional intrigue this time will not pass. We've had misunderstandings, we haven't been able to find each other, we've done our job. But that's not the point. The important thing is that you, trying to offend me, end up showing up as one of the least, I would say, insufficiently informed, so as not to say a rude person who is trying with sneaky tricks to insert dividing lines into a party he fears in the next election. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] I want to tell you that there are no dividing lines in this party through me. I've been a member of this party since 1983. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I have no intention of being a cause or reason or any parting, opposition or any other attempt at reducing its power. And the last thing I want to tell you is that I have two more seconds: do not try to weaken the Bulgarian Socialist Party with the lies you are telling here! You won't make it. The election will show you. Once again: read, continue reading my posts on Facebook, it will be useful for you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Let's move on to the next question. [[The National Representative Dimitar Glauchev wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Glauchev. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u132	Dear Mr President, in order not to abuse the procedure I have always been against, do not allow proposals for introducing new measurers into the system of measures and weights. Otherwise, there is one with a greater value and it is one Task. [[Radio and applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u133	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u135	I'll be strict about measures and weights. Please be careful. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u136	I don't know why you're warning me, you don't know what I'm going to say after all. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleagues of GERB, it hurts, doesn't it?! It hurts! It hurts when the people give you a red card! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] When the Bulgarian people really saw the quality of your government! On the subject of refugees and migrants, you have no right to speak at all! [[Comments from GERB and shouts: "Oooh!"]] What is also happening here in the capital is that these people really walk wherever and as they want under the nose of the Council of Ministers. Come and see what it's like in the municipalities, come and see how they walk in groups in the villages and people are afraid! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] This is precisely because of your completely incompetent policy! I ask: Does the Bulgarian people know how much the fence at the border costs and whether it has any effect on this fence? How much is this fence? Two hundred and fifty million leva and this fence is not finished yet! We still see services from Hungary, from Serbia. Serbs want to build a fence for a reason. Why, I'm asking? [[GERB lines.]] We are protecting European Bulgaria, aren't we?! What are we doing?! We're not protecting anything! You know it very well because these migrants really go through the country through sewers and they get paid. Only the Ministry of Interior and the government are closing their eyes. You are taking action behind the back of Bulgarian citizens, for which people are truly disgusted. That's why they showed you this red card in the election. It's the truth! You're talking about dealing, you're driving all kinds of premieres with SUVs that have been illegally transferred! Don't you feel ashamed with so many abuses to continue to have confidence that you are leading this country well?! We are walking towards new early elections for a reason. Because what is happening is really unacceptable! [[Noise and lines.]] You're talking about European funds. Wait a minute! That, when the Environment Program stopped, it was precisely because of the mayors of GERB, and that should be known! Then your orders were corrupted! It's the truth! [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] That's the truth! What are you telling me about good coping?! How much is your EU funds absorption? It's only six percent! It's an official document. Get into Isun and check it out. It's six percent of you! If you have a ready administration, given that you have organs, that you have absolutely everything, you have experience, you have a program that does not go at all See what happens to the Education and Science Program. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] See what's going on with Sofia Tech Park. This isn't Tech Park, this is turning into a business park! There is a right to build a priceless property and innovation companies are no longer sought! Why don't you talk about these things, and you're looking for small-time politics and bullying?! How will you define when the Bulgarian people have said: Yes, we want new, early elections!! Let's go to these elections, but the truth shines! It shines because it can't be managed only through the media. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u137	What media? They're yours!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u138	You're really turning into a balloon! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The people, especially the security of Bulgaria is not protected. It's all your responsibility! There you have suffered a complete failure. Two hundred and fifty million leva for a border which is not built and is of poor quality. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] No matter how much you walk and guide European leaders, you see what it is. Come down Svilengrad to see how these illegal migrants walk from village to village! Why would you go there? Come to the Council of Ministers, on the Lion Bridge, see what it is. You're trying a little politics that won't get you anywhere! But immigrants, EU funds, development of the country here you are weak! Here you have a complete failure. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm opening up the subject of education. See what all international studies show that children are becoming more and more illiterate. What happened in education? It's a shithole! The care people in the coma drive them in carts just to get their fingerprints, and you know it very well. What's going on with the meds? There's really nothing there. You have to understand that! [[GERB lines.]] If you do not understand it, then the people have already understood it and shown it in the last elections. Don't use such petty topics one or the other. The future president does not belong either to business circles or to the arms industry or to Moscow. [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] Not Washington, not Brussels. This is a Bulgarian worthy general and was therefore elected by the Bulgarian people with such a huge victory! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] It's the truth! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] From now on, it is important to form an early elections, really form a government that will give sustainability, which will give an economy that does not develop only with EU funds; an economy that has added value; a good education; and, of course, health care that is guaranteed by the Bulgarian Constitution. This is the truth, and this is different from your policy that you are leading up to now! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u139	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. [[Heckling]] The way you're leading it? You think I broke the rules?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u140	Well, yeah! Dear Mr. Chairman, you have admitted to speaking untruths from this parliamentary tribune. And I call on my colleagues from the BSP to finally take to find an English translator to read to them and tell them what this report said yesterday about the fact that there are really 160 million. Euros, and stop manipulating everything that's going on! [[Loud noise, lines and calls from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u141	Can I have a word with you? To me! To me, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u142	Mr. Chairman, the refugee camps were made in 2013 by the Oresharski government. Let's remember the military ramp. When a military ramp opened in the evening and in the morning, Mayor Fandakova was surprised to find that there was such a refugee camp as well as in Harmanli. How did you bully our mayor in Kazanlak?! Let's be as correct as possible! As for the President, first let the priorities be presented to the Bulgarian citizens and not to the ambassadors!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u143	Really, let it be to me in the manner of conduct, and what mistake have I made?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u144	Because we don't know what he's doing. [[Loud noise, lines, calls from BSP LB.]] Let him come out and let him out of Mrs. Ninova's skirt! [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u145	Ms. Karayancheva! I'm worried that a series of procedures will follow, but I suggest we focus on parliamentary control. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Durhan Mustafa concerning permission issued No 455 of 14.07.2016 by the Minister of Energy for the Study of Building Materials, Underground wealth in the locality "Merata" in close proximity to the villages of Gaberovo and Dubnik, Pomorie Municipality, Burgas District. [[Noise and lines.]] Please be quiet! The people's representative Durhan Mustafa has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, in my capacity as MP from the Burgas Election Region, I received a signature from the residents of the settlements Gaberovo and Dubnik, Pomorie Municipality, for permission to study construction materials and underground wealth. The inhabitants of these settlements are extremely concerned about the possible opening of a career of 60 meters from the regulation of the abovementioned settlements. This issue concerns both the health and safety of people and their property and livelihood. The research area includes a watershed for drinking water for the villages of Gaberovo, Dubnik, Briastovets, Draganovo, Izvorishte, as well as a protected area of In this regard, my question to you is as follows: whether an opinion of the municipal administration has been requested, whether an authorisation has been requested by the Commission under art. 17, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land, what will you do as Minister of Energy to protect the livelihoods of the local population, as well as their health and safety?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u147	Thank you, Mr. Mustafa. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u148	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mustafa, in the implementation of the current legal framework governing the provision of rights for search and exploration of underground wealth is the provision of art. 26, para. 1 of the Law on Underground Treasures, the opening of the production of a permit for search and survey of underground riches in the area of Pomorie, Municipality of Bourgas, is agreed with the competent ministries for the protection of national security and defence of the country, for protected areas, objects and cultural values, as well as with the mayor of the municipality at the location of the area, namely the Municipality of Pomorie, and with the Road Infrastructure Agency. In accordance with the legislation in force, the authorisation granted was declared in the Municipality of Pomorie together with the list of coordinates of the border points of the area of authorisation. On the basis of the positive opinion received, including by the municipality, the granting of the permit for exploration of underground riches in that area is agreed with all members of the Council of Ministers in accordance with art. 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration. With regard to your question, whether an authorisation has been requested by the Commission under art. 17, para. 1, t. 2 of the Agricultural Land Conservation Act, it should be noted that that provision refers to the hypotheses of changing the purpose of agricultural land for non-farming purposes. In this case, no change in land use in the exploration area is required. This procedure would be required in the operation of the provision of a concession for the extraction of underground wealth. Regarding your question of protecting the health of local residents, I use this case to assure you that the safety and guarantees for the health of the population are basic conditions in the requirements for granting a search and survey authorisation. In this regard, the submitted draft authorisation is also agreed with the Ministry of Health, such as the conditions laid down by the Ministry, as well as any other comments received under the conciliation procedure have been adopted and will be reflected in the draft contract for the exploration of underground wealth if it comes to the conclusion of such a contract. A complaint was lodged by the mayor of Pomorie with a signature of the residents of the localized settlements within the statutory period against the authorisation. The entire administrative file on the issue of the contested act has been sent to the Supreme Administrative Court. The complaint was lodged by Administrative Case No 10 582 of 2016 under the description of SAC, Section Five, which is scheduled to be examined for 14 February 2018. The study authorisation shall not give rise to action until a final judgment has been given. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u149	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Mustafa.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u150	Dear Minister, I would like to point out that I have asked this question at the end of August, namely, about four months ago and almost every week the mayors of these towns or inhabitants of these settlements call me to be interested. And they ask it this way: when will this minister, who has signed permission to shut down our settlements? Indeed, people are worried because, I suppose, if to your home at 60 meters from your house, where you live, you get career materials, and in an unknown way to the population, you may be blowing up there, I do not know how you will get them, it means that people in these settlements will really be concerned and I do not know how you will guarantee the health of the inhabitants of these settlements. Dear Minister, when writings are constantly in the media that many of the small settlements are depopulated, the task of each minister and the government is to create good living conditions in these settlements, not to issue permits where some businessmen, some companies receive income, and residents of the settlements to tolerate the inconveniences of these yields. In Bulgaria, as the Prime Minister, careers and stones said, many. Let them find a place, but away from the settlements careers and get their own. We don't mind that, so my request is when you come home today, for the little time that this government has in resignation, and you as a minister, if it is possible to do anything to cancel this permission to acquire underground wealth. Thank you very much. I really hope you do this if you have the chance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u151	Thank you, Mr. Mustafa. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u152	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mustafa, first of all, I hope it is clear that there is no concession contract and there is no extraction. There's a search-and-search procedure. Let's not scare people with that stuff! Plus, from the answer, I hope to make it clear that every action of the Ministry of Energy is in line with the law. Absolutely all opinions have been taken, as by the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Health, the Road Infrastructure Agency, absolutely all the institutions concerned, including the State Agency of National Security, absolutely all the institutions involved in this process have been informed and have expressed their opinion. Everything we've done is in accordance with the law, so let's not scare people with careers, with yields. There's a search warrant and a search warrant. This permission is also agreed with the municipality! People, apart from having to live peacefully, something that we work for all the time, it is nice to still think about the livelihoods of these settlements. All that we have done is in the interest of Bulgarian citizens, in the interest of the economic development of the regions. There's nothing illegal and nothing scary about what's been done. As I mentioned, there has been a complaint from the settlements, a file has been filed, it has been sent to the SAC, the SAC has scheduled the resolution of this dispute for 2018. Until the court has ruled, no one will take action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u153	Thank you, Honorable Minister. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Manol Genov on the implementation of control and imposition of sanctions for illegal extraction of inert materials in the localities of Ormana. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! On 15 August 2016, after receiving a signal, the mayor of Novo selo village, Stamboliiski Municipality, Todor Atanasov, ordered an inspection to establish the circumstances of illegal extraction of inert materials in the localities of Ormana. A protocol has been drawn up for the inspection carried out in the area, a photograph of the damage to the ballast extraction has been applied and the intruders have been identified. It is found that a large amount of aggregates were extracted in a 3m vertical array of................................................................................................................................................................................... The same were used for laying down and rolling of road in the localities of Omana and Goila. On the spot were working the factory, roller and truck of the company Aprelia 2000. The results of the inspection referred to the district governor of Plovdiv, who, by his letter, delegated rights to the mayor of Stamboliiski Municipality for exercising control and for imposing sanctions. Such actions so far have not been taken by the mayor of the municipality. The actuality of my question has evaporated because it was asked on 2 September when the question was introduced and when I had no information about such measures. Dear Minister, my question is: what action will the Ministry of Energy take or have taken to comply with the legislation in force and to exercise control over the local authorities in such documented violations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u155	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, on 2 September 2016 the Ministry of Energy received a letter from RIEW Plovdiv, sending a signal from the mayor of Novo Selo village, which exposed allegations of violations related to the seizure of inert materials in the areas of With regard to the information contained in the communication to the Ministry of Energy, on September 8th 2016 employees of the specialized administration of the Ministry of Energy performed an on-the-spot check in the village of Novo selo. As a result of the verification carried out, it was found that no excavations were carried out on 8 September 2016 in the territory indicated in the alert. Checkers have established a site that has been violated in the previous period. At the time of the verification, the presence of persons engaged in mining activities and the existence of extraction or transport equipment had not been established and there were therefore no legal grounds for drawing up an act seeking administrative-criminal liability. In the light of the above, the Ministry of Energy sent a letter to the mayor of Stamboliiski Municipality, informing him of his powers under the Underground Treasures Act relating to the establishment of administrative violations under the cited Law, the order and manner of drawing up acts when establishing administrative infringements, and the minimum necessary content of documents which the employees of the municipal administration may draw up in these cases. I assure you that the Ministry of Energy and its specialized administration, together with the other competent authorities, will continue to carry out planned and extraordinary checks in order to stop the activities of uncontrolled mining of underground wealth in the territory of the country and engage in the administrative-criminal responsibility of offenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u157	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u158	Dear Minister, frankly, I'm not pleased with your answer because you didn't answer me. You say unmanaged yield. That's pure theft! Theft, tolerated by the local authorities and concealed by your authorities. They discovered that it was excavated, but when it was dug is it unclear whether yesterday, the day before or last year. You, as Minister, have had plenty of time. If we don't criminalize this uncontrolled yield, things will still stay the same way they are now. I understand that the Ministry's capacity with regard to control and verification is limited, but understand that underground wealth is inert materials, ballast, sand, or rock cladding materials and broken stone are being stolen everywhere in the state. We had a conversation with your deputy that you will start legislative initiatives regarding the incrimination of such acts, which are carried out in a large amount. Unfortunately, as I see it, you will not have enough time, but as a policy for protecting the natural environment and ultimately as preserving the state's interest, because only those who do it benefit from this uncontrolled yield, the state is passive, there are no elementary capacity to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u159	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Genov, the topic related to illegal mining, is very important and essential in terms of the development of the mineral raw industry. As you mentioned, I do not know if time will be enough for us, but before us you have had a long enough time if you wanted to do something in this direction. I refer to the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Within the time we had, we did a few important things. The first and most important thing is that last year in August we adopted a Strategy for the Development of the Mineral and Raw Industry in Bulgaria, which was not previously done. In this Strategy, there is a special section related to illegal mining and how we must fight it, as this is one of the main reasons, one of the main factors for the grey economy in this sector. That's what we did. The other thing we have done is that there is a joint working group between the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Interior and all the competent authorities involved in this process. As it became clear, and the Law is very clearly regulated, powers regarding this Law also have local authorities. There is no way for an employee of the Ministry of Energy whose directorate has a little over 30 people to be present in every settlement where someone has decided to dig something. For this reason, the legislator has very wisely decreed that such powers should also have the local authorities. Dear Mr. Genov, our government has done very little to incriminate this act related to illegal mining. We'll continue to work this way further. We try to protect and protect the interests of the business and the people who live in these settlements to the maximum extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u161	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Magdalena Tasheva on the results of the drilling carried out by the Consortium "Total".............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u162	Thank you. Madam Minister, first I must say that I feel unspoken happy. My question is asked on September 13th. Today we're what? December 9th. After three months, it finally came to this very important question. Again, thank you for finding time to answer, though. The question is as follows: it is known that the R &amp; D in the territory of Block 1-21 Han Asparuh in the Black Sea ended in the summer. In June this year, you stated in the National Assembly that after the completion of the first drilling action, an analysis of the results will be carried out and the perspective of the bloc will be assessed. In this regard, I ask that I be answered: firstly, what are the results and prospects for the extraction of natural gas from this locality? Secondly, have data been obtained on confirmed extraction stocks in this part of the Bulgarian shelf from the drills made so far? I'll complete the question, interpret these questions. I expect you to answer me, Madam Minister, have there been road trials on the layers pierced by this well? Those are called the Polshkov-1 territory of the French "Total" and its partners in the consortium. Where is the data from these road trials? Who's keeping them? What are the results of these and what is their interpretation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u163	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tasheva. Minister Petkova, you have three minutes to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u164	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tasheva! As is known, a contract was signed on 29 August 2013 for the search and exploration of oil and natural gas in the Black Sea, located in the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Bulgaria. The contract was concluded between the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism and "Total" respectively within the consortium. An additional agreement of March 2013 transferred parts of the rights and obligations of the authorisation granted to OMV and respectively to In accordance with art. 4, para. 1 of the contract the holder shall carry out the activities under this contract in accordance with a comprehensive work project and annual work projects agreed by the Minister. The agreed annual work project for search and research activities in 2016 provides for the implementation of the first search and rescue project in the area of Polshkov-1. In the implementation of this project, the drilling is resonated to 5316 meters and completed in August In accordance with At the end of October, on 28 October 2016, the company's board of directors, Tantalus, announced that oil deposits were found in the block of Han Asparuh. In this regard, we expect detailed information and results in the annual report on the implementation of search and research activities in the bloc, which should be provided at the end of this month. A full evaluation of the drilling results is to be carried out, which, together with the results of the post-term studies, analysis and re-interpretation of the data, will contribute to an updated picture of the prospects of Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u165	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. A line? Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u166	Madam Minister, first of all, I'm not interested in the history of this treaty. You have filled your time with data that is not necessary and do not answer my question. We understand that they told you that they had found oil, didn't they?! I'm asking for natural gas, Madam Minister, not oil. You announced and satisfied the air with your plans to be heroic, to really build a hub near Varna. We, from the attack, argue that there is no alternative to Russian pipe gas. You claim that there are and these were the deposits of natural gas in the exceptional Bulgarian zone in the shelf of the Black Sea. Now I'm asking: is there natural gas in Han Asparuh 1-21 or not? If you don't, go out and say, "No!" Come out and say: We were going to make a hub that will, of course, not fill the Bulgarian treasury, will not work for the Bulgarian interest.. material, financial, national, but will work eventually for the interests of the concessionaires in the shelf if and when they find natural gas. I'm asking again. Oil is another genre. Go out and tell me, did you find this consortium of natural gas in Block 1-21 Han Asparuh, or did you not find it?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. You were infinitely clear in your call. Mrs. Minister, you have the opportunity for a dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Tasheva, I hope I'm mistaken, but I sense some reproach in your question that oil has been discovered. If that's true, I think...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u169	I'm asking for natural gas, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u170	The search and survey permit with regard to the block "Han Asparuh" is for oil and natural gas. Whatever was found in the depths of the deep Black Sea, I think is welcome for everyone. In terms of hub. If there is such a gas distribution centre on the territory of Bulgaria, I think that we will gain from this all of us and the Bulgarian consumers and the Bulgarian business. The presence of such a gas distribution centre means, firstly, having the relevant infrastructure to enable natural gas supplies from different sources, i.e. to have competition, to have lower prices, and this will be good for everyone. And the fact that there is oil found in the deep Black Sea and that "Total" announced this news on October 28th, I think we should all enjoy it, and we should not be reproached for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u171	If there's natural gas, that's the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u172	Thanks for the douche. Mrs. Tasheva, please calm down! What you understand, that and all of us. Next, a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev regarding the supply of nuclear fuel to the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy." Mr. Kadyev? I think the nuclear fuel supply to the nuclear power plant, Kozloduy, will remain for next parliamentary control. We are moving on to another question to the Minister of Energy Mrs. Petkova from Mr. Petar Slavov and Mr. Martin Dimitrov about the opening of the connection between the interconnector, so is known in the public space, with Romania and its normal functioning. Mr. Slavov, you have the opportunity to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Our question really concerns the discovery of the transmission connection or, as is known, the interconnector with Romania and its normal functioning. Dear Minister, in your speech last month you pointed out that by mid-November the gas connection or the interconnector between Bulgaria and Romania should finally be ready, for the construction of which both you and your team have made a lot of effort, and we have asked you more than once in this room. Its release into service, as we know, is extremely important and will start the real diversification of gas in Bulgaria, as well as the separation of its dependence on supplies from a single source from Russia, along the only route. Moreover, building this interconnector is also part of the European Union's priorities in the energy and energy independence of the Eastern European countries. At the same time, we are concerned by the information that the compressor station on Romanian territory, which is important for the realization of the project and for the realization of the supplies to Bulgaria on the interconnector, is not yet ready. The Compressor Station "Podishor" as part of phase one of the development project of the Romanian power grid, comprising 3 compressor stations, on the information I have at my disposal, could be expected to be completed only in 2019. In this regard is also our question, Minister: when is the compressor station expected to be completed on Romanian territory, which is important for the functioning of the new transmission link between Bulgaria and Romania? What measures do you plan to accelerate its entry into service if you really confirm the information that is expected to happen forward in time? Of course, and the most important question: Since when do you actually expect the real transmission of gas on the interconnector to Bulgaria to really have this diversification in order to have competition on the gas market in Bulgaria so that gas prices can fall, as we hope for many other goods, I refer, of course, to fuels, but this will be subject to other issues? As we know, competition is important and it lowers prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Following a response from the Minister of Energy Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u175	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, the project for the construction of the gas interconnection Bulgaria After the construction of the main pipeline from the transition, including the underwater transition of the Danube River, the interconnector was put into operation in November 2016, as we had undertaken as a commitment and fulfilled it. At present on Romanian territory there has not yet been built the Podisor Compressor Station (KS) which is envisaged as a measure to increase the pressure on Romanian territory in order to achieve optimal conditions for the functioning of the link in the direction of Romania. As I have already had the opportunity to inform you, it is envisaged that the compressor station on Romanian territory will be put into service in 2019 and it is possible that this will happen earlier. "Bulgartransgaz" takes into account the need to provide the necessary pressure to achieve optimal operation of the interconnector as soon as possible. All possible measures have been taken by the company to focus on the issue of the necessary additional infrastructure and to comply with the commitments made by the company in relation to its construction. The subject was the subject of discussions during a number of bilateral workshops between the two companies on issues related to the construction and operation of the gas interconnection. Apart from the relations between the two operators, the issue of the recent construction and commissioning of the compressor station has been repeatedly put in the framework of regular sessions of the gas connectivity initiative in the region of Central and South East Europe of the European Commission, within which the project for the construction of the Bulgaria Interconnector is included. In the discussions on the topic at both operational and high level, the Bulgarian side expressed its strong position on the need to resolve the issue of pressure on Romanian territory, as in the presence of the European Commission, it required concrete proposals and commitments to build the necessary additional infrastructure in order to achieve optimal use of the already built gas interconnection Bulgaria............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It should be noted that it is nevertheless possible to accept gas for transport in reduced quantities between 2,5 and 4 million cubic metres per day depending on the duration of the crisis, if any. In view of the recent commissioning of the interconnector on 11 November this year, the actual transfer of quantities is expected to start from 1 January 2017, following the relevant capacity allocation procedures. In this regard, I would like to inform you that negotiations are currently under way between the two operators and an interconnection agreement is due to be signed by the end of the month, and on 14 December the date for the tender for the reserve of capacity is fixed. These are quarterly auctions, which will be held as an opportunity for reserve of capacity, and with regard to the interconnector Romania. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u176	Thank you and I, dear Mrs. Petkova. The line will be from the MP Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u177	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. From it I understand that we have a built interconnector, we have a connection with Romania, but it happens that we can actually deliver gas to Romania, but not the other way around without building this compressor station on their territory. Obviously, Bulgaria's interest in this case is what is most important to us, of course, that we should be able to receive supplies from Romania so that we can guarantee our diversification, competition and indeed look for a decrease in prices for both the Bulgarian industry and Bulgarian households. Recently, I had a survey of a non-governmental organisation that I think points to Bulgaria as the only remaining country in the European Union that has no virtually similar interconnector connections and relies only on one source and on one pipe, and we all remember the crisis well before, how many years ago did someone really close the tap of the pipe in another country and gas didn't have, and for a long time. So these things obviously shouldn't be allowed. You've said very correctly before that it's on the path of diversification that this thing can happen. However, what concerns us in this case and, again, I stress, the really huge efforts that you and your team have made to make this interconnector happen, because it has been downplayed, fucked up for years and so on and things have not been going with other governments. Given that such majorities are not excluded, I hope it will not happen, but it is not ruled out again, so to speak, to try to rule Bulgaria, I suppose you are making it clear that they will probably sabotage this process again. Our appeal to you is indeed what you said at the end that an agreement is expected to be signed with the Romanian gas company, that is, an inalienable commitment to build the compressor station, hopefully in a shorter time, to start the process of real deliveries from there. Once the Bulgarian industry and the Bulgarian consumer saw the advantages and benefits it has from the realization of this project, no government, however harmful it is to Bulgaria, will be able to stop it. So let us focus on our efforts in the little time we have left to literally finalize the project, to do this good deed for the Bulgarian citizens, for the Bulgarian industry and to really show that Bulgaria is not the last country in the European Union, again in the first place in the most negative rankings, which has no connections with the other countries, but rely on only one route and on one pipe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u178	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Next is the duplicate by Mrs. Petkova, Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u179	Dear Mr. Slavov, as you mentioned, I have had the opportunity to share my vision and the vision of our government in terms of diversification. The diversification of sources and routes for the supply of natural gas means two main and very important things: first of all, security of supply, second and foremost, competitive prices. From this all Bulgarian citizens and the business of Bulgaria will only win. So it was no accident that the government directed its efforts very very precisely in this direction. You know that projects related to the construction of the interconnector connections are indeed one of the few countries left without such interconnection, which at one point creates very serious risks for us. It is no accident that we have focused our attention on speeding up the development of each of these projects. We promised that the interconnector with Romania would be built, and we achieved it. We promised that the interconnector Greece will be brought to a phase to which it will be irreversible as a process, and we have achieved it. Last year, in December 2015, we made a final investment decision to build this project. The second, binding phase of the market text for the interconnector in Greece is now complete. She's a success. Out of 2 billion 700 million announced capacity, 1 billion 570 million is committed to already solid bids. From now on, there is an interest in companies that were unable to participate in the first phase and are therefore not allowed to participate in the second phase under the regulation. We are now discussing the possibility of auctioning for this unreserved capacity, so that the interconnector Greece is indeed reserved within its full capacity, which will be a very serious success and guarantee that the project will be realized. This process is really irreversible. With regard to the construction of the compressor station with our partners from "Transgaz" and with the Romanian minister, I have spoken repeatedly. The construction of this compressor station is included in the business plan of the Transgaz. Colleagues on the Romanian side will also make efforts, we have their guarantee, including the European Commission, that this compressor station will be built as quickly as possible. What I mentioned earlier is that there is no such compressor station, and there is now an opportunity for natural gas supplies from Romania to Bulgaria within up to 4 million cubic meters a day, in a crisis situation, if any. I hope it doesn't come to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u180	Thank you and I for the ass. Now I will give the people's representative Georgi Kadiev, who is in the Chamber, the opportunity to ask his question about the supply of nuclear fuel to the nuclear power plant. Mr. Kadyev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, Madam Minister, first of all, I must apologize for my very slight delay. The reason was my presence at the protest of judges from the Sofia District Court, as I believe...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u182	Please, on the subject of your question, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u183	I just wanted to explain why I was late - a form of moral gesture of support for them. Dear Minister, the intentions of the world-famous company "Westinghouse" are known for the supply of nuclear fuel to the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy." In 2015, a conference on the production and exploitation of nuclear fuel was held at the Golden Sands Resort complex, in which the company "Westinghouse" took an active part. In February 2016, a delegation of the NPP "Kozloduy" visited a plant of "Westinghouse" in the city of Vasteras "Sweden." In September 2016, a delegation of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" also made a technical visit to a Ukrainian nuclear power plant (NPP) operating nuclear fuel of "Westinghouse" for more than 10 years in order to explore the operational experience of the Ukrainian power plant. In this regard, please answer the following questions: Has pressure been put on by Westinghouse to purchase and operate their nuclear fuel at the nuclear power plant at Kozloduy? When does Kozloduy nuclear power plant intend to start, if it intends, the exploitation of nuclear fuel of "Westinghouse" and in what sizes? What are the results of the visit to South-Ukrainian nuclear power plant in September 2016? Will a complete package of estimates and analyses be carried out for a safe transition to a new type of nuclear fuel and how will this be financed and by whom, knowing that such a type of analysis costs tens of millions of dollars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u184	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. Reply from the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u185	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, in order to improve the safety and efficiency of nuclear reactors, study of international experience in the design, production and exploitation of nuclear fuel, Kozloduy NPP is actively involved in the work and organization of a number of international seminars, nuclear fuel conferences and the safe operation of VVer 1000 reactors. Part of these international events and visits for exchange of experience are the events cited in your question. In February 2016, a team of NPP specialists visited the plant for nuclear fuel production in Sweden and got acquainted with production processes and quality control methods for the production of fuel cartridges components. At the workshop were presented and discussed the technical characteristics of the various modifications of the VVer 1000 tapes of the Westinghouse and information about the current experience of the work of the tapes of the II and III block of the South-Ukrainian nuclear power plant. Similar visits to fuel plants, workshops and seminars on the design, production and exploitation of nuclear fuel are carried out periodically with the current nuclear fuel supplier for the nuclear power plant Nuclear fuel cycle specialists regularly explore and exchange experience with colleagues from countries operating a VER 1000 reactor, taking into account the energy security strategy of the European Union and the requirements of the NPP at present, Kozloduy NPP is exploring the possibilities for delivery of enriched uranium product and/or nuclear fuel from alternative suppliers. In 2018, a tender procedure for the supply of nuclear fuel from alternative suppliers is expected to be prepared. In addition, it should be borne in mind that according to art. 201, para. 3 of the Ordinance on the Safety of Nuclear Plants, the use of a new type of nuclear fuel is considered to be an amendment which substantially alters the configuration of the nuclear power plant and must be preceded by a detailed and thorough safety assessment. The Nuclear Regulatory Agency's licensing regime requires the implementation of analyses for the safe transition of a new type of nuclear fuel in full. In case a nuclear fuel transition decision is taken by an alternative supplier, a complete package of neutronophysical, thermochemical, thermohydrative and radiological safety analyses by the fuel supplier will be executed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u186	Thank you, dear Minister. For your reply, Mr. Kadiev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u187	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Your answer was very detailed and largely answered the questions I asked. If I have understood correctly, 2018 you will already have a tender procedure for new fuel, which means that by 2018. You should have this analysis to show what the dangers of switching to it are. The information I have is that the average time for such an analysis is about two years. You didn't answer the question: who will pay for the analysis? That's really tens of millions of levs. After all, we are talking about something that is dangerous to our health? not just changing one supplier to another, because it changes the entire configuration of the nuclear power plant and therefore could lead to an accident or not. My two supplementary questions supposed visit to the South-Ukrainian nuclear power plant by a technical committee of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" was actually in order to see if there were any accidents and any problems with the fuel of "Westinghouse" which has been in this plant for 10 years now. There should be a technical report. You must have seen it. That's why I'm asking you: are there accidents there? Is there a danger that something like this will happen in Bulgaria if we switch to new fuel? First thing. Secondly, who will pay for the analysis, which, as we assume, is tens of millions of dollars? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. Mrs. Minister Petkova, you have the opportunity for a duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u189	Thank you. Dear Mr. Kadiev, when we talk about nuclear energy, the first and most important priority is security. That is why I want to assure you and all Bulgarian citizens that when it comes to such extremely important decisions, we apply absolutely all the requirements and regulations of international, national. We will meet absolutely all the requirements of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency when we move on to such an approach. I want to assure you that what we are doing and the colleagues who will then work again in this direction will comply with absolutely all the requirements that guarantee safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u190	Thank you, Madam Minister, that was the last question you answered. We wish you a good day. Thank you for your input. Next are questions to the Minister of Foreign Affairs in resignation Mr. Daniel Mitov, who we see, however, is actively performing his functions and is here in parliamentary control. The first question will be from the National Representative Mr. Atanas Zafirov on restrictions imposed by the Republic of Turkey on the participation of Bulgarian municipalities in the implementation of projects under the Programme "Interreg." This appropriation is intended to cover Dear Mr. Zafirov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, here some of our colleagues have expressed joy that they are receiving answers to questions that have been asked for the months of June and July. By this logic I should be circling here with joy, because my question is from April. Thank you, however, for finding time after eight months and you intend to answer my question. The Interreg programme for cross-border cooperation Bulgaria "Turkey 2014" 2020 has a budget of 29 million. 642 thousand. EUR 896 and approved by the European Commission in July 2015. The programme is co-financed by the European Union through the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance 2, as well as by both partner countries Bulgaria and Turkey. Its eligible beneficiaries are institutions and organizations from three Bulgarian districts Burgas, Yambol and Haskovo, as well as two provinces in the Republic of Turkey. The projects under the programme are implemented on the basis of partner agreements between participants from both countries and the managing body of the program is the Bulgarian Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Last year it became clear that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey was forbidden for Turkish municipalities to participate in partner projects with a number of Bulgarian municipalities, including Burgas, Haskovo and Svilengrad. The reason for this ban is the recognition by the respective Bulgarian municipalities of the genocide against Armenians in the Ottoman Empire. The information about this ban was also confirmed by the mayor of the town of Adrianople, as well as by Minister Lilyana Pavlova. The introduction of such restrictions represents a rough attempt to interfere with the Turkish state in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and, in particular, the freedom of local self-government. It shows misunderstanding and non-acceptance of fundamental values of the European Union, including freedom of thought and expression of opinions. By its actions, the Turkish side grossly ignores the European Parliament's resolution on genocide over Armenians, and at a time when Turkey claims to fulfil its conditions for membership in the European Union. The existence of such criteria, whether formally laid down by a Turkish party or not, is in direct violation of the management rules of the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, insofar as it limits the possibility of participating in projects of eligible beneficiaries identified in the programme. Moreover, in this case the two largest municipalities involved in cross-border cooperation in Bulgaria are affected. The situation thus created on the Turkish side's fault puts at risk as much as the legality of the currently implemented first programme for the recruitment of project proposals, the deadline of which was 16 March 2016. I would like to remind you that the issue is from April and so is the entire programme. In view of the above, I ask an answer to the following questions: first, has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs referred to the situation created by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and what actions have been taken through diplomatic channels to remove these restrictions, and is there any change in the position of the Turkish country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u192	Thank you, dear Mr. Zafirov. Dear Mr. Mitov, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u193	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zafirov, you are aware, of course, that your question and the matter that you concern is only partly the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The question you have raised concerns the actions of the local authorities in the Republic of Turkey in relation to a decision of some municipalities in Bulgaria. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not addressed by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works on such cases. At the same time, I note that on 28 March 2016 the Turkish side signed a bilateral Bulgarian-Turkish memorandum on the implementation of the Cross-border Cooperation Programme In addition, the regular meeting of the Joint Monitoring Committee of Bulgaria's Cross-border Cooperation Programme was held in Burgas on November 8th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u194	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? Here you are, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u195	Dear Minister, you only answered half of my question. It is good that you acknowledge that no assistance has been sought by the Regional Ministry. It is good then to conclude that this government is not able to protect the interests of the Bulgarian municipalities, because what you say does not change the fact that these municipalities are excluded from this Programme. The fact is that your attitude towards the regime in the Republic of Turkey, where freedom of speech was crushed in a non-pardonistic way and which the regime is increasingly defined by the international community as dictatorial and authoritarian, is not strong enough to protect the interests of Bulgarian municipalities. This issue, I understand, has not been put before the European Commission clearly enough, there is no Bulgarian position of these affected municipalities. I regret that there is not a single MP from GERB in this House, or perhaps there is one to hear clearly with its ears that this government does not have the capacity to protect even municipalities that are led by GERB. This somehow does not surprise me, because I would remind you that the first session of the previous cabinet with this prime minister was in Ankara. I think that says a lot, including what I put in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u196	Thank you. Would you like a douche? Yes, you do. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u197	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zafirov, of course I cannot agree with the conclusions you have drawn. Firstly, our attitude towards the situation and governance in the Republic of Turkey is firm when it should be and there is a conversation, of course, on issues of bilateral interest. This is how we have worked and I think it is reasonable that this is how we should continue to work. And how we qualify one regime or another, we can have a completely different conversation now. I can agree with much of the conclusions you draw. I have already told you that during the discussion, first of all, on 8 November, a regular meeting of the Joint Monitoring Committee of the Cross-border Cooperation Programme was held and no such questions have been raised during the discussions. That means the program is running. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Zafirov.]] On the other hand, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is partly involved in such cases and may be triggered when it is addressed by another ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u198	Thank you, dear Minister. That was Mr. Zafirov's final back to the question. There is a question from the National Representative Georgi Kyuchukov regarding proposals for new appointments of ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u199	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The question I asked six months ago on behalf of the parliamentary majority until just now was about the appointment of the new ambassadors. It's not my place to remind you that according to art. 24 of the Diplomatic Service Act shall not exceed 20%. In April or May you yourself said that this quota was exceeded and it was about 24%. After that, many more ambassadors were appointed from the so-called political quota and on the list that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs provided to the Committee on Foreign Policy, and only the ambassadors, they were about 30%. I've got the list. At the same time, some personnel who are experienced diplomats are being sent to countries outside the European Union and outside Europe, and in part this leads to the loss of people who are extremely competent and extremely well prepared. I am referring to our forthcoming Presidency of the European Union. It is known that in order to protect Bulgaria's policy, it must be protected by experienced and well-prepared professional diplomats. In the light of the above, I would like to ask you: can you, as a person who proposed the appointments in question, ensure that the relevant candidate ambassadors in the European capitals and new ambassadors know the mechanisms of the European Union and the negotiation between the Member States, that these are precisely the people who should represent Bulgaria at the time and will not our presidency be doomed from now on to failure? Can you ensure, for example, that the political appointee in one of the main centres of multilateral diplomacy, Geneva, where all mission managers are career diplomats, understands the diverse problems and complex procedures in international organizations, and what exactly is the ambassador's work there? Can you also ensure that the unprofessionals governed by the Balkans are aware of the complicated history, processes and relations in the region, with the European Union's policy towards them, with our specific interests there and the problems of the Bulgarian minorities and groups? And in general, can you guarantee, Minister, that all these new diplomas have an idea of diplomacy and how embassies work, how contacts are established and how negotiations are conducted?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u200	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. Mr. Minister, all I'm reminding you is that we're in a questioning procedure. You have five minutes, not three minutes, as is a simple question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kuchukov, we are very far apart from the figures and I am ready to sit down, to talk more about how exactly the quota in question is calculated, because the list you received is not enough. What you asked for is not really enough for you to calculate the amount.................................................................................................... Allow me to clarify that the legal framework and the established practice after the adoption of the Diplomatic Service Act recognize and use the figure of an external assignment, which does not cover in any way the imposed vision and figure of the so-called political assignment. The last wording I consider irrelevant, as it gives out a way of thinking that I do not share. The quota of 20% of the number of heads of the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Bulgaria laid down in the Law for the so-called............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is the situation this year, which is the subject of your express interest. On 15 July this year, the quota of the stakes will be covered by 19%, i.e. below the legally established 20%. At the end of the year, with the proposed applications for four appointments by the so-called................................................................................. I've found a much higher percentage. From a practical point of view, the structural and systemic problem is incomplete in the scope of the regulation. This is where we should have another conversation. The lawmaker in the adoption of the Law has made a serious omission. In space, the quota of 20% has been set, but the critical range of time is not settled. At the same time, you have formulated certain doubts and are essentially trying to erod the resources and opportunities of the new candidates. I would take it as a normal support for the political party you represent, but I would like to clarify the following. Firstly, the proposals for the applications of the so-called..................... are not political, in so far as they concern government officials from the President's Administration with proven and publicly recognizable institutional practice or experience, including in international organisations. The same have professional and linguistic qualifications, which is more difficult, not to say almost unrecognizable to the extraordinary assistants of President Georgi Parvanov at the end of his term. Secondly, I am convinced of the quality and resource of the proposed applications to deal with their official mission and the high responsibilities of the positions to which they have been sent. Dear Mr. Kuchukov, as well as the MP and part of the legislature, I consider it useful to form your attention on the topic, the party motivation is, of course, available and cannot be absent, but still not to give in to the professional discourse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kuchukov, under procedure, you are entitled to two minutes for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u203	Dear Minister, I will not play with party supplies like I have never done in the Foreign Policy Committee, and you know this thing very well. So it was incorrect what you were trying to insinuate. But for the fact that all the diplomats you sent during your term of office are doing perfectly and have the necessary qualities, excluding language training, I could ask you: is the same assessment of the activities of the ambassador sent to the Republic of Turkey at your time? As far as I know or at least you have expressed it in the Committee on Foreign Policy, you also have some objections in this regard. In addition, as a second question I will ask it, I accept that you want to reduce external appointments and do not accept a political quota, however. What was the reason why the last two ambassadors who were appointed and who went through the Commission this week were appointed in gross violation of the Rules of Procedure and the Diplomatic Service Act? I am referring to Mr. Sirakov, who went from one assignment to another assignment and not to finish it, but to a new mission, and to Mrs. Chobanova, if I am not mistaken, who made an excellent impression on me with his knowledge, but which is also in external assignments?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u204	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. Mr. Minister, you have three minutes to answer the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kuchukov, if I have offended you on the subject of party bias, I apologize. Somehow he was looking into it, but maybe I was wrong. Secondly, I am glad that Mrs. Chobanova made a good impression on you, you obviously appreciate it. I hope that this will continue in the future. She has the resources, and the readiness to cope as our ambassador to Bratislava. With regard to Mr. Sirakov all legal requirements have been met, he has gone through all necessary procedures and passed from one ambassadorary post to another, that is, the transfer, is not an unknown practice for Bulgarian diplomacy. It's been done in the past.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u206	Who wrote this rule book?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u207	Who wrote it is a different topic. A lot of things have been written and accepted here in this room. As for the reservations you mentioned, the only reserve I remember is practically with regard to our ambassador in Ankara. This conversation was conducted only in the context of the evening of the coup attempt in Turkey, when I had given an explicit order to Ambassador Neynsky not to make public statements on behalf of the diplomatic service and not to comment on the political situation in the Republic of Turkey. I have never forbidden her to contact Bulgarian citizens and, of course, she had to do all the work left, to give information and so on. It's normal practice. You know it, we've talked about it. If there was any conversation about her, it was that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u208	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the right to express your attitude for two minutes, Mr. Kuchukov. That's the procedure. If you like, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. It is obvious that you are defending your appointments, and all of us who are watching them are entitled to our doubts. It is not exactly what our ambassador in Turkey did or did not do, but that is another matter. I won't go into details. The point is that both you and your predecessors and all who will be after you must strictly comply with the Diplomatic Service Act and strictly comply with the Ministry's Rules of Procedure, which was violated by Mr. Sirakov, provided that he himself had written it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u210	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Mitov, and he is from the National Representative Velizar Enchev on the need to recall the Bulgarian Ambassador to Skopje, the termination of negotiations on a treaty of good neighbourliness and the veto of the membership of the Republic of Macedonia in the European Union. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u211	Mr. Minister, the question has been asked for a long time, but it is still relevant today. I appeal to you as MP and former Ambassador of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Balkans, who has repeatedly put the issue of the Republic of Macedonia's membership in the European Union and the need for a Bulgarian veto if Skopje does not end his anti-Bulgarian campaign and embezzle the Bulgarian cultural heritage. But after an organized group of citizens in the Republic of Macedonia went up to Mount Kaimakchalan and one of them defamed the monument of the Bulgarian soldiers during World War I, please answer this one, I think, still unfortunately an up-to-date question: will you recall the Bulgarian Ambassador to Skopje first? Will you stop the negotiations on the Republic of Macedonia's membership in the European Union? Will you suggest to the government that we stop negotiations on a Neighborhood Treaty if the Macedonian Ambassador to Sofia and the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Macedonia do not regret what happened and if Macedonian law enforcement authorities do not start a rapid proceeding against the people who destroyed the Bulgarian monument of Mount Kaimakchalan? But since it has already been a month since this event, even more or less, neither the Macedonian ambassador in Sofia nor the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Macedonia have expressed regret about what happened, on the contrary, have given an inadequate explanation, nor the Macedonian judicial authorities have self-sacrifried, on the contrary, they have justified the Milenko in question for his barbaric act to the memory of the Bulgarian warriors who died in the First World War of Kaimakchalan, I believe that the issue is more than topical and should, if we have national dignity, take one of these steps. However, in any case, even with the next government that will come, elected by this Parliament, we need to debate the issue of the anti-Bulgarian campaign in Macedonia, which has not ceased in the last 27 years in the so-called conditions of democracy. But even before, during the Titov regime and in the so-called "Democracy" policy of the Republic of Macedonia to the Republic of Bulgaria is one: embezzlement of Bulgarian cultural heritage, anti-Bulgarian propaganda, creation of films, productions and publishing of books [[the President signals that time has run out]] , even with foreign participation in which the Bulgarian history is completely depraved and embezzled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u212	Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u213	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, thank you for the question. As you pointed out, it is up to date and will continue to be up to date. I would like to point out, first of all, that I fully share your indignation over the vandal act of defamation of the memory of the Bulgarian warriors who died in Kaimakchalan. I believe that you are familiar with the statements made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 23 September 2016. In this case, a sufficiently clear position was expressed by both the representatives of political parties and the general public. At the same time, I do not think that an entirely emotional approach would be the most productive in the case. It is the duty of Bulgarian diplomacy and mine as Minister of Foreign Affairs to use all available tools to search for the best possible solutions. I had the opportunity to inform the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly on 28 September 2016. Allow me to comment on the proposals contained in your question. Firstly, a fundamental principle in diplomatic relations, which Bulgaria strictly adheres to, is non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries. For this reason, Bulgaria would not allow itself in any form to attribute what actions should be taken by the authorities of the Republic of Macedonia against the perpetrators. Moreover, the judiciary itself in the Republic of Macedonia is, by definition, independent. In its official statement of 23 September 2016, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria announced that the person Nedelkovski will be banned from visiting Bulgaria. For similar reasons, Bulgaria cannot dictate the content of the reactions in the case to the officials of the Republic of Macedonia, as this is a matter of their choice. However, it is correct to recall the official reaction of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Macedonia, which distances itself from the vandal act, and we have received assurance that the issue of placing a plate of And this procedure is already underway. With regard to the veto for the membership of the Republic of Macedonia in the European Union, as is known, the Republic of Macedonia has not yet started negotiations on accession to the European Union, therefore meeting the criteria for its membership is unfortunately a matter of a vague perspective. The next key step in the EU integration process is precisely the beginning of membership negotiations. It is a precondition for Bulgaria to give its support for this agreement for friendship, good neighbourliness and cooperation. This position is well known to both the authorities in Skopje and our partners in the European Union, and since 2012, it has had an adequate impact on the positions of the European Union in the Republic of Macedonia, which all 28 Member States are behind. It is with the consistent defending of this condition that we strive to ensure our national interest. Regarding the interruption of negotiations on the neighbourhood treaty, I agree that the atmosphere is currently not suitable for the next round of negotiations on the treaty. In the long term, however, its signature remains our strategic interest. May I remind you that the contract was proposed by the Bulgarian side in 2012 precisely in order to obtain legal guarantees against the negative phenomena that plague relations between the two countries. Since then, every Bulgarian government, regardless of its party composition, has consistently defended both the key positions for our country on the text of the treaty and the clear intention to continue the negotiations until their successful conclusion. I believe that the permanent interruption of negotiations would be extremely inappropriate and is only in the interest of persons and circles who do not wish to establish good neighbourly relations between Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia. Dear Mr. Enchev, as I have already pointed out, the Ministry in charge takes the necessary action in search of a favourable outcome in the case of Kaimakchalan and the use of other similar vandal acts, using the means of diplomacy. You understand that such an approach excludes the so-called calling of consultations in the capital of the Bulgarian ambassador in Skopje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u215	Mr. Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer. On this occasion, I would like to tell you that last night I was at the presentation of the book of the great wrestler for the Bulgarian cause in Macedonia the late Temelko Neshkov, a book with his file in the Macedonian security services and the Yugoslav security services UDBA. During this presentation of the book about this great Bulgarian patriotic guests from the Republic of Macedonia shared with me last night that nothing has changed in the Republic of Macedonia so far if we are talking about an anti-Bulgarian campaign and the embezzlement of the Bulgarian cultural and historical heritage. Furthermore, on the issue of the friendship agreement, I would like to draw attention to a very important issue in it, which even experts do not pay attention to. This treaty essentially recognised the existence of the Macedonian language. When you recognize the existence of a fictional language in essence the southwestern Bulgarian dialect, you recognize the cultural identity of this fictional nation. Do you recognize the cultural identity of this fictional nation with this friendship treaty, you also recognize this fictional story of Macedonianism. Macedonianism, which embezzles Bulgarian history, which reaches for even Greek history. In this sense, I believe that the Friendship Treaty has a fundamental flaw. It essentially serves Macedonianism and Macedonians in the Republic of Macedonia. That is why I will agree with you and with your steps that you took when we somehow show national dignity, and here I disagree with you. The defamation of the memory of the Bulgarian wars should have led to the formal recall of the Bulgarian ambassador for at least two weeks as an act of discontent and indignation against this act, of course, to which the Macedonian state has no relation whatsoever. But it, with its propaganda, with the open actions in relation to Bulgarian culture abroad and in the Republic of Macedonia, claims and adjusts in the Macedonian public the radical elements in it with regard to the Republic of Bulgaria, so I think that national dignity stands first when I talk about Macedonianism. Macedonianism only understands the language of power, diplomatic power, that is, softness or firmness. There's no other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u216	Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u217	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, you are a man of diplomatic experience and you know well the tools of diplomacy. Whether harder at times or with slightly different methods, diplomacy has its tools and we use them. When it is necessary to show firmness, we will manifest it. We may have a different assessment in certain situations, but, again, I will repeat the following: first, the actions that should have been taken to place this time within all procedures on a memorial plate of the fallen Bulgarian soldiers at Kaimakchalan. This procedure has been initiated and we have the assurance that it will eventually come to the official placement of a co-ordinated memory plate, a memory sign. What will he be like now is a question of further conversation. On the other hand, the Treaty of Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation is important to us precisely for the reasons I have listed. In order to end the negative trends and relations towards the Republic of Bulgaria in the Republic of Macedonia, these relations must be put on a clear basis, namely within the framework of this treaty, the language case being resolved. We have other cases in this treaty and they are related to the potential claims of some Macedonian minority in the Republic of Bulgaria, which obviously there is no, of course. There are other elements that you know well and we can continue to discuss in the future. But, again, a series of Bulgarian governments, regardless of their party affiliation and composition, have always defended the Bulgarian national interest in the negotiations on this treaty, and I hope, and I am absolutely convinced that this will continue in this way, as they are being understood first, the Bulgarian national interest is defined very clearly and the main elements to which we adhere are also well outlined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u218	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question, which is from the National Representative Atanas Zafirov. It is about the demonstration of the defamation of symbols and monuments related to Bulgarian history and our national dignity. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov. Today you are once again active in parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for noticing my activity. Dear Minister, my question very much repeats the previous one, but I would like to ask it with a few more nuances, I stress that it is from September 26th. I stress that there has not been a little more than a month since this case, but two and a half months have passed, i.e. time, which is sufficient for a reaction, which clearly does not or at least not have enough satisfactory response from the Foreign Ministry and the Bulgarian State. I would like to say that this act was carried out on September 22nd, it is not a random date, it is a national holiday of the Republic of Bulgaria, and it is a rude and demonstrable act against Bulgaria and against the Bulgarian statehood. The Milenko Nedelkovski in question, who presented himself as a journalist, apart from the uploaded photos and published comments showing that he was destroying memory plates, insulting its authors and addressees in an unacceptable way, and later announced a kind of tender for the instrument with which he carried out this shameful act on the Internet. And I saw that thing with my own eyes. Note that all of this is happening in a place where just a few days ago an official delegation of Bulgarian MPs, officials of the Ministry of Defense, officers, generals of the Bulgarian and Greek army, in the presence of the Guardian Company honored the memory of the heroic fallen soldiers, and with the blessing of His Holiness the Bulgarian Patriarch Neophyte and with the permission of His Eminence the Florin Metropolitan Theoclitus, in whose dioccles is located the peak, His High Reverence Archimandrite Atanasius. In Athens, Ivan Rilski served a peaceful prayer. Once again I will ask the question: what was the reaction of the Bulgarian state? I accept what you've answered. Let me know if there's anything else. However, I would like you to say, is there a ban already imposed on this person to visit Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u220	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Just to clarify, Florence County is the former Lerin and his county. Mr. Secretary for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, thank you for saving me this clarification. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Zafirov! First of all, we talked about the reaction. Clearly, it cannot be said that there is no reaction, given that not only there is, but we have sent a note to which it is answered. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs reacted immediately to the insult of the memory of the fallen Bulgarian soldiers of Kaimakchalan with a statement of 23 September 2016, which I hope you are familiar with. In it was expressed a clear outrage of the vandal act, as is the unanimous position of the entire Bulgarian public. A call was made for the authorities of the Republic of Macedonia to take measures to prevent such actions that harm bilateral relations and good neighbourliness. Also in a statement it was announced that the person who committed the infamous act will be included in the list of unwanted foreigners who cannot visit the Republic of Bulgaria and this procedure has been initiated.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u222	Two months since then?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u223	It has its dimensions. According to my instructions, on September 27, 2016, our embassy in Skopje urgently requested the Macedonian government's consent to place a memorial tablet on Mount Kaimakchalan. On the subject, I also spoke with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Macedonia Nikola Popovski personally, stressing our expectation for a quick and positive response. In addition, I would like to assure you that the Bulgarian country will not give up its efforts to restore and preserve the monuments and cemeteries of the Bulgarian wars on the territory of the Republic of Macedonia. I will not hide that the reaction of the authorities in the Republic of Macedonia has not always been in line with our expectations and according to the established world practice of honoring those who died from all sides in war conflicts. That is why we are looking at the subject in the broader context of our endeavour to establish good neighbourhood as a fundamental principle of our relations with Skopje, and for this purpose we will continue to use, of course, all available instruments of diplomacy. The person in question is forbidden to enter Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u224	Thank you, Mr. Mitov. Mr. Zafirov, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u225	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! The Florian Metropolitan is the canonical title, and I stick to the canon.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u226	Only: Lerin is the Bulgarian name of this region in Macedonia.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u227	There's a church canon, and from this tribune we have to be exact. In other forums we would love to talk about this. I'm sharing. Dear Minister, first of all, to express a surprise what kind of procedure this is, where two and a half months cannot be prohibited by a person who, in a brutal, rude, demonstrable way, has damaged our national interests! What kind of procedure is this?! Just to remind you that Milenko Nedelkovski in question is not a random person in the neighbouring Republic of Macedonia. He is a journalist, particularly close to the regime at the moment and to the government. I don't want to imagine a hypothesis of an ongoing procedure, and here, God forbid these days, let's see it in a government delegation and wonder how to react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u228	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the back of your head. You don't want to. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Dora Yankova regarding the passage of buses through the border crossing point Makaza. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u229	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! My question is about crossing buses through the Macaza border crossing point. We certainly know the importance of perhaps the newest point, which is along the route Ruse A little story. In 2009, the construction started with money from the state budget. On 9 September 2013, this post was opened as the southernmost point of Macaza "Nymphea." All interested in European territorial co-operation Bulgaria, especially in this part, and I, as a national representative from the Rhodopes, take note of its usefulness for the transport and economic opening of Bulgaria, related to Greece and even Turkey. This for Bulgaria, for the economy and for the transport of the country is a new and modern transport infrastructure. However, there is one question here. At the opening of the point because of the technical infrastructure that was built, the passage of cars and cargo to 3.5 tonnes was limited. At the same time, the loading of the points in the last three years has reached 10 thousand. the vehicle, according to the data of the Border Police. This says that there is an economic exchange going in both directions, which I welcome. Why did I ask the question, Minister? We were expected to become members of the Schengen area and not build additional infrastructure. The other option in the experts' expertise was to rebuild the infrastructure. Tomorrow will open the tourist season of the most beautiful resort Pamporovo, and will start economic activity in the winter in the Rhodope Mountains. Tourist figures this week called: do something to enable Macaza to pass small buses or even buses. My question is in this regard and I ask for your competent answer. Are there any additional obstacles outside the infrastructure? I asked you the question because it is connected by experts and our accession to the Schengen area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u231	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Yankova! Regarding your question, I would like to inform you of the following. On the basis of art. 1, para. 6b, t. The point is built as a joint on Bulgarian territory in order to pass cars for private use. I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs During the 78th regular meeting of the Mixed Bulgarian-Greek Border Commission, minutes of the meeting held between 28 and 30 July 2016 in the town of Komotini, the Greek side confirms that there are currently only two lanes, while in the first place four lanes of entrance and exit from both sides should be provided and only then to move on to the handling of buses and trucks on separate routes. The issue was once again raised in the framework of the third joint meeting between the governments of Bulgaria and Greece, held on 1 August this year in Sofia. The transfer of buses requires the construction of additional, separate road lanes, given the regular filling capacity of the lanes currently used only for passenger cars. The technical line for the border inspection of passenger buses requires a significant stay in the border crossing point area, therefore the use of one of the first lanes With regard to the above arguments, I would like to inform you that human resources should be allocated to carrying out border checks for the normal passage of bus traffic through the Macaza border crossing in addition to the necessary infrastructure changes. To conclude, I would like to emphasise that the opinions made on this issue by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by the competent Bulgarian institutions are predominantly positive, but there are also some reservations and specifics regarding the establishment of a separate bus lane. Under these circumstances, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not competent to take a decision on its own to open the Macaza border crossings, and this must be taken in the framework of a meeting of the Interdepartmental Council, where it is to be assessed whether it will proceed to a procedure for amending the existing detailed planning plan, for which pre-project studies should be carried out and a geological report should be drawn up, given the complex terrain, narrow and on the surface of the site designated for the Macaza crossings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u232	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Yankova, come in, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u233	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I've been waiting for this answer. It is good that in diplomatic relations with the Hellenic Republic he was constantly on the agenda. There are a few things that bother me. I know the volatility of experts in technical and transport infrastructure, why they slowed down, that, you see, we do not need to invest money if we become a member of the Schengen area. At the end of the two years of government of the cabinet Borisov 2, we still have no clarity there what happened. Secondly, many times here and we as MPs have said that foreign policy should serve the country's economic interest. Now here's a particular region like the Rhodopes. People expect in winter to make added value both to national economic development and to themselves. The resort "Pamporovo", "Meci Chal" where many economic players over 3,000 companies expect to work for several months. My address to you as Minister and to the government, which still works in the Republic of Bulgaria.Sit with the Prime Minister, with the Minister of Tourism and see something operational and businesslike is possible. Now there is no large flow of money going to the sea. Is it possible to take a light regime for small buses and buses and this, if necessary, be useful? Summertime helps the Greeks when millions of Bulgarians flock and support the Greek economy. It is only right for winter to be able to take advantage of this kindness. This is my address and on behalf of the voters I represent, and it is for the good of our country, for economic development and for the people who live in the mountains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-09.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Secretary? You don't want a doppelganger. Thank you. This was the last question to Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov. This issue of Mrs. Iankova is exhausting the agenda of today's plenary session, which is why I am closing it. Next regular plenary session on 14 December 2016, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
