ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear MPs, today is the first Wednesday of September, which is why the plenary programme for this Wednesday is formed according to the order of art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. on a proposal from the parliamentary groups with a view to rotation for the respective month. First this week is the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block, which they are proposing, and this is respectively the first point of our weekly programme - First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act. Importers.. Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front is point two: A draft decision to award the Court of Auditors to carry out a comprehensive audit of the activities of the State Agency for Child Protection in relation to the spending of funds for: the preparation of a technical assignment under the project "Childhood for all" - the conduct of trainings and concluded civil contracts under the OPAC projects, as well as the study of the implementation of the Action Plan for Deinstitutionalization, for the period 2009 - 2015. Importers: Sultanka Petrova and a group of MPs. From the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center - People's Union, the Parliamentary Group of Attack and the ABB Parliamentary Group did not receive any proposals. On behalf of GERB's Parliamentary Group, it is proposed and this becomes the third point: the second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 12 February 2016. The fourth point is the proposal of the parliamentary group BSP left Bulgaria: Project for a decision to repeal the decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012 on the termination of the construction of a nuclear plant at the site of Belene. 28 from 6 April 2012. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. There is no proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Under the Programme Project proposed by the President of Parliament: 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law of Non-Profit Legal Entities (if, in the framework of today's vote, we fail to fully adopt this Law on a second vote). 6. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code. Importers: Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Svilen Ivanov, Petar Slavov and Ralitsa Todorova. He was adopted in the first vote on 14 April 2016. 7. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 8. First vote on a bill implementing measures against market abuse of financial instruments. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation Importer is the Council of Ministers. 10. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Grants between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophony. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 11. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 20 July 2015 and Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2015. " 20 December 2015 Importer: The Commission for Disclosure of Documents and Announcement of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 12. Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2014 and Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2015. Importer: National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. 13. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, Wednesday, today, at 12:00. 14. Parliamentary control under art. Art. 91 103 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 138 MPs: 121, none, abstention 17. Program accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Velizar Enchev proposes to include in our weekly programme a draft Declaration of the Forty-third National Assembly on the need for national ratification of the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada. One explanation. Having distributed to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds the Declaration Project, by letter of its President Mr. Svetlin Tanchev, which has been given to the attention of all MPs in their e-mails, states that on 5 July 2016, the European Commission formally proposed to the Council of the European Union the signing and conclusion of a Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada, as stated by Mrs Cecilia Malmström that, given the political situation in the Council, the Commission has decided to propose the Agreement as a joint, mixed agreement. This means that, as a first step, the Agreement must be concluded by a decision of the Council and by agreement of the European Parliament. However, in order to finally enter into force, the Agreement must then be ratified by all Member States through the relevant national procedures. In this case Mr. Enchev's draft declaration is without object, as it is clear that there will be mandatory national ratification. However, I cannot refuse Mr. Enchev's procedurally to protect his proposal to include this Declaration in our weekly program.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm really familiar with Svetlin Tanchev's letter, but there's an amazing paradox here. For the last two years, no proposal of mine has been tabled in plenary, as well as in the Committee on Foreign Policy led by Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova, and the proposal of Svetlin Tanchev, because on the same day, on 5 July 2016, I submit this proposal to the Bulgarian Parliament, and on 5 July the European Commission, to say it directly, gives way under the pressure of a number of countries in the European Union, led by Hungary, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Belgium and agrees to have a national ratification of this Agreement, and not only ratification with the decision of the European Council, as this is contrary to both the European Constitution and the rules of democracy in the European Union. For this reason, I believe that the Bulgarian Parliament should accept this declaration, because this way we will show that we insist on national ratification. We will show that we are following the example of countries such as Belgium, Hungary, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, which insisted in special declarations such as this that there should be national ratification of the EU and Canada Agreement, and not just ratification of bureaucrats in the European Parliament. Since I have very little time left, I will only say that if we do not accept the declaration of national ratification, we join the bureaucrats in the European Parliament, who insist that the European Union parliaments do not vote on this ratification, and that this is left only to Brussels and that it decides whether to conclude this agreement. The conclusion of such an agreement without national ratification is entirely to the detriment of the countries of the European Union and, first and foremost, in Bulgaria, which has serious visa problems with Canada. You know very well that this visa regime in relation to Bulgarian and Romanian citizens is extremely discriminatory. Dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support this declaration to show the sovereignty of the Bulgarian state, the sovereignty of the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u3	We are voting on this proposal. They voted 130 MPs: 33, against 53, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 31 August to 2 September 2016: - A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Administration. Importers: Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Energy and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; - A bill to amend and supplement the Civil Procedure Code. Importers: Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. - Project for a decision to announce the Bulgarian-Hungarian friendship. Importers: Valeri Simeonov, Gemma Grozdanova, Ivan Pankov Ivanov, Milena Damyanova and Radoslav Stoychev. It is also allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. - Draft declaration of the forty-third National Assembly on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the acquittal of Sergey Antonov, unjustly accused of the assassination of John Paul II. Importer: Velizar Enchev. Distribution to be made; - A bill to amend and supplement the Civil Procedure Code. Importers: Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 2 September 2016, the National Assembly received a report from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the plan for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, adopted by Decision No 728 of the Council of Ministers of 2016. By my letter, the report was made available to all parliamentary groups and permanent committees. It is the same with our attention in the Library of the National Assembly. In the performance of art. 52, para. 4 of the Bankruptcy Act on 2 September this year by letter from the Chairman of the Board of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the National Assembly received a Report with summary information from the valuation and liquidation balance according to the main categories and asset of Corporate Commercial Bank AD in bankruptcy. By my letter, the report was submitted to the Budget and Finance Committee. The same is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Last communication: materials from the National Statistical Institute have been received by the National Assembly, containing information on the general index of producer prices in industry and indexes of producer prices on the domestic and international market for July 2016; gross domestic product in the second quarter of 2016, preliminary data and productivity of labor, employed persons and spent time for the second quarter of 2016. Moving on to point one: The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in this row. It was introduced on 7 April 2016. It was allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Agriculture and Food. There are no reports. I give Mr. Slavov's word to present the bill on behalf of the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u4	Mrs. Chairman! My fellow Members, I would be very pleased to present the Bill tabled by right-wing representatives in this Parliament. I hope to be able to persuade you, although I have repeatedly commented with representatives of the various parliamentary groups, I sincerely hope that all the parliamentary groups will join together and support such a bill. It really concerns a very significant problem in Bulgaria. The problem with the many people who live in poverty, at the poverty line, who are very often going to bed in the evening hungry and at the same time in our country are thrown out annually over 670 thousand tons of good food, which could reach these people. As most of you know, and in recent months, a lot of people have been practicing on the topic of so-called VAT payments on food donations from traders, this is the subject of this bill. As Mrs. President pointed out, it was introduced back in April, far before some people thought to exercise on this topic and explain how significant the problem was. The topic has been commented for years by the civil sector in Bulgaria and by many MPs. They rightly note that this is unacceptable, something that in a country of the European Union, and unfortunately, the poorest country, should not happen. Colleagues, in almost all, not to say, the problem has already been solved by all the countries of the European Union. There are not only incentives for people and traders who donate food, not only are these donations not subject to VAT, but in some countries there are even sanctions for traders who decide to destroy this good food, but do not give it to the so-called food banks, such as the Bulgarian Food Bank with us, which will help and very quickly direct it through the built network, through the logistics they have created over the years, to the people they need, to the organizations that help such people, note even to state institutions who live in a difficult situation and thus save a lot of money on the budget, as food in practice is not bought with money from the taxpayer. As I have paid attention to these 670 thousand tonnes that are thrown out annually, according to public sector data, if a simple account is made, you will see that they will be enough nearly a million and a half people to be fed every day with three meals a day, that is, to live a normal life. I have already said, but I cannot say it once again: unfortunately, Bulgaria is leading the negative statistics once again in the European Union. Many countries, not to say all, have solved this problem and such actions do not happen. What are the benefits of such a bill? First of all, of course, for the huge number of people who, as we know in Bulgaria, live on the poverty line and who will receive from this food, I pay attention again, colleagues, this is a good food, which in the last 30 days of its shelf life will be provided to these people and they will be able to consume it in a normal way. Food is fit, it is in no way different from what we buy in the store, just after the expiration of this 30-day period, it will already be unfit and then must be discarded. I have already mentioned that a number of benefits will also arise for the budget, as there will be no need with budgetary resources to buy funds for many social institutions to which these organisations and food banks can direct this food. The benefit is both for the state budget and for the fissure. Of course, the theme of guarantees, what is actually the main stumbling stone and what we hear mainly from the Treasury as reserves, is that there could, you see, be abuse. Look, colleagues, if anyone wants to abuse it, they can do it right now. Any unscrupulous merchant can now decide to abuse and do so and it will even be much easier for him if a food discharges it as a marriage if he says that he destroyed it and then sold it, so to speak, under the table and in violation of the law, without charging VAT. Colleagues, the current Value Added Tax Act says precisely this: Food whose expiration date has expired and it has been broken up, is effectively scrapped, is destroyed, and is not done so-called "supplier," that is to say, the 20% VAT is not charged. See how easy it is if someone really decides to abuse such a mechanism right now. What we have written in this bill is a number of guarantees that will ensure that there is no abuse. I will mention only the most important of them to you and I hope to really convince you that there are guarantees that they are very serious and that they will really guarantee the state interest and concerns of the Finance Ministry and Fiska. First of all, only non-governmental organisations for public utility activities which are registered in the NRA in a special register will be able to carry out such activity, or otherwise, if a trader decides to donate food to a third party who does not meet this criterion, is not a non-governmental organisation for public utility activities, is not registered in the special register of the Ministry of Justice, is not registered in the second special register of the NRA, then this trader will have to pay the 20 per cent VAT and will not be able to use this reference. Next, the NGOs themselves for public utility activities must meet a number of criteria. First of all, they must not have unpaid public obligations; they must not have been sanctioned in the last two years for infringements under the VAT Act; they must have, notice, a warehouse that allows a system of control and monitoring of stocks. At any given moment you will know in this warehouse what foods are donated, where they went, what happened to them and they will be able to be checked at any moment by the authorities of the NRA if they wish to do so. One more thing, only 0.5% of the salesman's annual turnover will be able to be donated in this way. Here is another obstacle to major abuses, as expressed in the Ministry of Finance. A minor part of the turnover of large traders and traders in general will be able to be the subject of such a donation to benefit from this preference. Of course, not least, as I have already addressed, only in the last 30 days of the shelf life, such food can be donated. Before that, it is unacceptable and obviously it is then obviously no longer fit. Only in these last 30 days will it be able to be donated and use this preference. Imagine, fellow Members, how difficult it will really be for these organizations, such as the Bulgarian Food Bank, who will only in these 30 days have to be able to get the food, to find out who is in need, to deliver it to it and to reach its final recipient. They say they can handle it, and I'm sure they'll be able to do it. Colleagues, this is what I'm going to finish, just one last sentence that comes to mind right now, but I think it's relevant. Yesterday, I guess a lot of you attended the Celebrity fireworks, and I watched it myself on TV, and a lot of people watched it. There, the main motive that colleagues put forward is the power of the compound and how important it is that the political forces can really be able and I would say that the MPs should unite around important bills for the state. I have already had the opportunity to speak with Mrs. Stoyanova on this Draft and with representatives of the Patriotic Front... colleague Bajraktarov as Vice-President of the Economic Commission and left, by the way, declared a wish recently in a debate in which I was with colleague Boychev to support him. I think most of my colleagues have such a desire. I suggest we really accept it at first reading. If there are remarks and things to improve, this is the meaning of the legislative procedure, we will correct them between first and second reading and from the beginning of next year this Bill will be able to enter into force, and we will do this good deed. Once again, this bill will enable especially right-wing representatives, so to speak, to demonstrate what a modern dimension of right-wing social policy means, what it means in practice in modern conditions socially responsible business, what corporate culture means. Colleagues, most non-governmental organisations that unite large traders, have unofficially already stated readiness and desire to donate this food, which is otherwise discarded, but currently the current legislation, this 20% tax adjustment, which they are forced to make, is really very disproven and it is highly economically disadvantageous under the current VAT Act. This changes with this bill. I hope that they will fulfill their commitments and that food, that 670,000 tons, will reach people, not in the trash can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u5	Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? The first is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, first of all, happy holiday! Indeed, the Unity of Bulgaria is the most true Bulgarian holiday because it is in spite of the will of the so-called "Great States" so I am pleased to congratulate you on this holiday. Now to the substance of the bill of colleagues Mr. Petar Slavov and Mr. Martin Dimitrov. The patriotic front will support this bill categorically. Moreover, what colleague Petar Slavov in his statement of the Bill failed to say, and it is important to say. In fact, honourable Members, this is not about left or right policy. It is about the implementation of the Bulgarian Constitution and its part that Bulgaria is a social state. Moreover, poverty cannot be left or right, but it is a fruit of wrong left or right politics, and neither can the doctor divide the sick person into left, right, and I do not know what purely political as a consideration, but just needs to cure it. In fact, this Bill has another economic feature, which is important to know, honourable Members. It will not only not damage the state budget, quite the opposite.. its implementation, the operation of this bill will actually save a great deal of expenditure on the state budget. When a population has a share of about 2 million. people who are below the official poverty threshold, this means that there are 2 million people absolutely at risk who are malnourished, that is, they are easy prey of all kinds, in the first place, diseases, for the cause of malnutrition. It is because of this peculiarity that we will also focus our efforts to promote the functioning of this Bill so that it can not only be a book, but also be applicable, that really the stakeholders themselves... Because I believe that 0.5% of total turnover is insufficient. This percentage should probably be increased to at least 2%, because, honourable colleague Slavov, 0,5% for most food products By adopting the Law with this percentage, we practically accept nothing, there is nothing to donate, because for example, one part of the sausages have up to 1,5% accounting, that is, this percentage is clearly written and it does not remain even for donation. That is why we need to think about raising this percentage in order to have really practical action. That's what I'm saying now, purely specialized. People who know about accounting and auditing, they know this thing. I appeal to all my fellow Members, no matter what political affiliation there is, but my request, my appeal to all my fellow Members today is to support this Bill, at second reading, to improve it, because there is something to improve in it and really as quickly as possible by the end of the year to become operational this text of the Value Added Tax Act, and from there on to promote the action of this text so that these foods can really reach needy people, children, and not see unfortunately people digging through trash cans to find the piece of bread so that they don't starve to death. That is the point of this Bill, so the Patriotic Frant will definitely support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u7	Are there any lines to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, of course, the BSP Parliamentary Group is not indifferent to this problem, has worked and has proposals on it. I would like to express the principled support for the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly on today's Draft. Of course, in this poverty and situation in which hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens fail to throw themselves and burn food is, to say the least, inappropriate. Nor should we overestimate what we will do with this bill, such as overcoming social inequalities and poverty in the country, but it seems to me that it is a step in the right direction. The Parliamentary Group will make its proposals, I hope, at second reading, when the bill is supported today, with a view to not giving opportunity and abuse under this good proposal. We have little reservations about the mechanism proposed by importers, perhaps we are looking for a stronger role of the Ministry of Social Policy, inclusion and perhaps the Agency for Social Assistance in this process of obtaining and distributing such food, but this, of course, for a second reading. I just wanted to express the principled support from our parliamentary group for this good idea in support of the people who need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u9	Any lines to Mr. Boychev? I won't. The word for speech is Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, the GERB Parliamentary Group will support this proposal. This is a good proposal, as the previous speakers have spoken before me. I would add a good proposal, as usual with good suggestions the devil is in the details and very often this devil can then come first and replace the good in the proposals and ruin it. At first reading we support the idea, but I strongly believe that a very thorough analysis should be made and such texts and such mechanisms should be proposed between first and second readings, which will minimize the possibility of this good proposal to make some wonderful stolen money from some people. You'll say, "Why are you talking, Mrs. Stoyanova, these things?" Because unfortunately, the Bulgarian experience of recent years shows us precisely that usually the best intentions are the greatest breakthroughs. I don't want to go back that far, but I just want to remind you that we once had a State Foreign Aid Agency, if you remember. It was not a non-governmental organisation, as proposed at the moment to distribute the aid, it was state-owned, it should be under control, and nevertheless it was finally closed scandalously after millions were drained from there instead of reaching the needy people. I hope that doesn't happen now. We will try as hard as possible to put such obstacles against the bad intentions of some. Despite everything from the speech, from the presentation that was made by the importers, a few questions arose before me. Mr. Slavov said 670 thousand tons of food that expire and which could rather than be discarded, be used and donated to socially weak and poor. I, if I make a very simple Laicical account - 670 thousand tons, assuming that we value it at two levs, which is an average, super low price, that is a lot of money and 20% on that money - about a billion and four hundred makes about 250-280 million. lv. VAT. Isn't that right? You will say this VAT will not enter into the budget, but it will not reduce the current revenue, because so far these 670 thousand tonnes have been scrapped and, in the course of marriage, again, this VAT has not entered into the budget. However, before I draw this conclusion, I would check the accounts of the carers in Bulgaria through which the destruction of the scrapped food is carried out and document this destruction in order to recognise the scrapping. Without making a detailed reference, I think that in Bulgaria there are not many producers - two or three are May and I doubt very much that the capacity of these elevators covers the 670 thousand tons that my colleague Slavov spoke about. This is one direction in which we must continue our analysis to see what has happened so far with these so-called foods, which will now be donated and which have been scrapped and discarded. The second question that arises before me is: who should benefit from donating food to producers or traders? Who are those who are currently scrapping these foods?? Manufacturers or traders? You all know that large chains usually do not scrap food. Usually before the expiry date, they return unsold foods to their manufacturers. The second direction of analysis should be this.. who until now was the one who scrapped the food and directed it to the... to call it a preference or to call it a good idea, so that it could indeed be the one who was scrapping those foods that was dumping them, now that he could donate them to the food bank in question. Here, of course, we must categorically put a threshold on some percentage of either the turnover of these foods, or a percentage of the food reported by the producer or trader in question, i.e. up to the amount of what he has reported as scrapped food, up to that amount, to give him the right to possibly donate to the following banks. I share some ideas like this on the prima vista, because you really will say: you, with your budget, are always wondering how to keep the budget. It is most important because without it there will be no state, without it there will be no social assistance. Another point is that I agree with my colleague Boychev that a greater share in this whole good idea, especially in its final phase, the implementation, who will benefit from these foods, should be controlled and clearly defined the responsibilities of the social assistance services of the social ministry. In order to really realize this idea and not to fail it the way previous ideas have failed, and not to fill in the pockets of some unscrupulous producers, traders or resourceful businessmen for a short time, I think we should have a complex approach. The VAT law is the least of the problems in this part. It is the least of the problems, we will put several texts there. More importantly, how will they be regulated, how will they be controlled and how will it be guaranteed that they will not abuse the food banks in question, who will license them, who will monitor them, who will have the right to withdraw and under what conditions their licences? The next phase is: to whom will these food banks distribute the foods in question, will they really reach those socially weak ones who should receive them? The easiest is with homes for elderly people or with disadvantaged children, only there are also staff there, there are people who work. Will these foods go to those that we wish to receive this help, or somewhere along the way some of them depends on the size, will go in other directions and will be implemented improperly. The questions I ask myself are very serious and they could only compromise this idea in one year, so we can never go back to it again. So at first reading we will support the good idea, because it really is not right that even one kilogram or one litre of food should be scrapped if it can be used, but let us all here in this House show wisdom and really do such texts between first and second reading, again, I say, complex "VAT Act" is the smallest problem in it, so that we do not compromise this idea and need only after a year in this room to cancel the texts in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u11	Any lines to Mrs. Stoyanova? Mr. Bayraktarov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I absolutely share your concerns and intentions about subsequent control. However, I think it is difficult to carry out preliminary controls here, but to do so. First of all, I would like to make a line to you that a huge portion of these foods are not subject to an equarius burn. This, one. The second thing in the so described picture, which particularly impressed me, your statement in relation to..... because indeed some of these foods must go to the homes for elderly people, and I would add to the centres for refugees, where we already have a very interesting view that, in fact, the foods that are being purchased here we are already talking not about donated, but about purchased foods, have nothing to do with those purchased. I mean, what is the guarantee that when the state spends some money on buying food and has to carry out this control now and by law, and they don't go, say, beef butt or pork butt, as it's written in calculations and invoices, and some skin clippings go because someone steals? And here I agree with you. However, we are already talking here about crimes that have nothing to do with the good idea, and we should not turn things in advance into such a black scenario, because we are really going in another direction that worries me that between first and second reading such a regime will be made that no one actually has the desire to donate. That is what concerns me, and that is why I am making a reply to you, so that we can clarify in advance this moment right now that a bill in a new form is not created, which the donor does not have any motive to donate. Otherwise, I agree with you and I share that there must be real control and that these donations should go there. However, we are already talking about donations, not in valuable expressions, but in donations in natural expressions, that is, this control can always be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u13	Second line? A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u14	Mr. Bayraktarov, I am convinced that there will be abuse. From now on, I'm convinced of that. The question is how much these abuses will be and what is the mechanism to prevent them, and not then to be caught and chase the bossy churches, as we usually do after control. What do they mean? I'm giving you a very simple idea. I didn't think in detail, and to tell you frankly, I as a long-standing control organ my brain rather works not how to make the deal, but how not to let the deal be made, although one is related to the other. The producer or trader donates it to the food bank, the VAT doesn't go into the budget, the preference is consummated, the budget is on the minus. However, the food bank for one reason or another can not realize it within the shelf life. Surely there are such cases, and I think that they may not be so small, that is, we are using both the preference and the food does not reach and will not be used by those for which it is actually intended and for which we are doing all this exercise. You say control. I agree with you, but I think that control is too late. Control is after rain hood. We need to do prevention, we need to create such a mechanism that we do not need control to identify abuse, because then we usually have no one to recover this abuse from. Because whoever made it, it will not be the producer or trader from which we can collect it, because it has business, I guarantee it to you, reference to call companies according to VAT for years, you know,..............................Michaliya.......................................... Don't let it happen here that we'll end up chasing Michaliya. So for me, control is not a panacea, control must be very strict and it must be prevention by fear of punishment, which must be very serious financial, if it is necessary to seek and criminal responsibility. However, the texts of the Law, which must be worked out, must be a guarantee that this will not be allowed or allowed, but not in those dimensions, because in any case there will be leaks, but not in those sizes that would compromise the whole idea and damage the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u15	To speak, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! The idea really makes sense, it is good and I call on my colleagues from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms at first reading to support it. It is evident that consensus is also being formed in this House that it needs to be worked on. As we see here on the air, that is, this tribune has experienced those who have spoken before me, and quite successfully, to make an assessment of the impact of this Bill, which is currently lacking. Of course, there is no specific obligation to do so, but, anyway, not all aspects of this otherwise good proposal are well appreciated by the importers presented to us and what is lacking is a control mechanism, both to avoid abuse and later to distribute the relevant donations. Since at the beginning and at the presentation by an importer, a timid attempt was made with regard to the authorship of the idea, indeed the specific importers have presented it to our attention, but the idea is quite old. Many times over the years, this idea has been discussed as one of the main and original authors of the idea as a whole for the food bank is the "America for Bulgaria" Foundation and its social fund, that is, we can look there for an authorship of an otherwise very good idea and welcome such initiatives, but here we can say that several main doors are opening. Firstly, the idea of making a social policy that we have avoided for many years in this country with tax instruments and tax levers is scarcely sneaking in here and we must absolutely avoid it from now on. We also open the door to tax preferences, which should probably be opened because of the nature of the idea itself, because they will benefit from it really if it is made properly, needy Bulgarian citizens, but it also opens the discussion about subsequent preferences that will be requested and cannot be given. These are preferences for medicines, preferences for bread, preferences for books, textbooks and so on. That is, we see that such an idea can open a much wider discussion and I am sure that this will happen in the coming months. Moreover, we are on the verge of adopting the package of tax laws, which we must adopt in connection with the budget for next year. Maybe the place of this idea was exactly in this tax-law package. The importers are from the ruling majority in its narrower or broader sense, I find it difficult already to navigate, but in general this could indeed happen with the tax laws package and be presented to us in a general analysis of how the changes that will be made in these laws will affect the next budget, how they will affect the individual policies that will be offered to our attention. I am sure that Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will make a working group between the two readings, in which a more specific control mechanism will be developed and there will be a real encounter of the right in this policy, i.e. it manifests itself not in the donation itself, but in who distributes the donated food accordingly. That is, on the one hand, this can happen to private entities and NGOs, food banks, but, on the other hand, the left in this policy is to do so under direct control or even be carried out by the relevant state institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u17	Any lines to Mr. Chobanov? Mrs. Stoyanova, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u18	Mr. Chobanov, I fully share your concerns that this debate can open the debate to other preferences. Let us hope that reason will prevail at least in this part of the room, because there are already requests for similar bills on the left. You are absolutely right that this bill had to come out, and it probably would have come out of the government as part of the package of tax laws, which is the right thing to do, but I think it is good to look at it earlier today than the package, because it will give us the opportunity to do so, and my intention, to create a working group that, until the submission of the package, which will actually get the second reading of this Bill, to elaborate what we are talking about here. Again, the easiest thing is the VAT Act. The easiest thing is to put two or three texts there. We can make this very easy. More importantly, I am going back to realization, how do you raise the question of whether they should be non-governmental organisations entirely on a free initiative, should they be an agency of the respective ministry or the existing agencies? But I would put the issue even more pragmatically: whoever they are they will need a serious logistics base, they will need warehouses, they will need refrigerators with different temperatures and so on, because we are talking about a very wide palette of foods there are packed, unpacked meats, milk and so on. They will need staff and probably a technique to pack, repack, in a certain way cut, if we are talking about rice, there are no sacks to distribute it, it is obvious that it should be cut into smaller sample packages and so on. They will need transport to reach these foods distributed by them to their respective locations. They will need logistics to identify and check whether they meet the requirements of the sites that will receive this donation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] All this requires a very serious resource, which I guarantee you will be hired by those who currently own it, manufacturers and traders. And then, if I am such a merchant, I will say: "Why some non-governmental organization? I'm going to make a non-governmental organization and use the capacity I have in warehouses, in bases, in people, not to distribute my own, and also to my colleagues, foods that are running out of time. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm sorry I don't have time. More such ideas may arise, but I hope that we will share them in the working group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u19	Second line? A hole, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Stoyanova! Yes, I agree with you. This confirms the thesis that this working group really needs to make a fairly precise impact assessment that includes all of these aspects, which also includes the threshold to which they can donate and the extent to which this threshold will be satisfactory to them, and the extent to which that threshold corresponds to that quantity that was mentioned for discarded foods. So you really need, in order for the idea to work, to be quite well refined and from there, the issues that remain to be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u21	Any other Members of Parliament wishing to take part in the deliberations? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 654-01-49, submitted by Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov on 7 April 2016. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted unanimously in the first vote. [[Private applause on the right.]] Go ahead, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, according to art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I would like to ask you to put to the vote the extension by two weeks of the deadline for adoption of proposals between the first and second reading on the Anti-Terrorism Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers, No 602-01-42, adopted at the first vote on 28 July 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u23	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal to extend the period of proposals under the anti-terrorism law. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next point proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, namely: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO REFUN THE COURT OF AUDITORS TO WORK OUT THE WHOLE AUDIT OF THE ACTION OF THE STATE AGENCTION FOR THE CREATION OF THE CHILD WITH REGARD TO THE DISCLOSURE OF FINANCIAL SERVICES FOR THE WORK OF THE MAINTENANCE OF THE MAINTENANCE OF THE MAINTENANCE FOR ALL. Reports were received from the two committees on budget and finance and on children, youth and sport. We will first hear the report from the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u24	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision to award the Court of Auditors to carry out a comprehensive audit of the actions of the State Agency for Child Protection with regard to the spending of funds for the preparation of a technical assignment under the project "Children for all', the conduct of trainings and the concluded civil contracts under OPAC projects, and the study of the implementation of the action plan to the vision for deinstitutionalization for the period 2009 - 2015, No 554-02-49, submitted by Sultanka Petrova and a group of MPs on 30 April 2015. At its meeting held on 18 June 2015, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Court of Auditors: Toshko Todorov, Vice-President, and Darin Matov, Head of Cabinet of the President of the Court of Auditors. The draft decision was presented by the MP Sultanka Petrova. In recent years there have been systematic violations in the work of the State Agency for Child Protection with data for purposeful violation of children's rights in order to personally enrich employees of the system. There is information on unregulated absorption of funds allocated by the European partners under operational programmes under which the State Agency for Child Protection has implemented projects. Within the framework of a project under the Operational Programme "Administrative Capacity" "Administrative Capacity" "Administrative Analysis of the State Agency for Child Protection" the fees for one trainer amounted to BGN 3853. for a period of training 2 days; for the preparation of a technical assignment under the Project "Childhood for all" in order to study the implementation of the Action Plan to the Vision for deinstitutionalization are spent funds of about 140 thousand. BGN, provided that an independent assessment on the same subject has been carried out by UNICEF and recommendations and guidelines for action and change are given. Despite the costs incurred, the problems in the area of protection and protection of the rights of the child in Bulgaria are deepening. Civil society is increasingly raising problems in this area, inevitably linking them to complaints of abuse of public finances and corruption. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 9 votes for the Council, without the opposition and 5 abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: DECISION entrusting the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance with the implementation of the Deinstitutionalisation Action Plan 2009 - 2015. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance with the implementation of the Deinstitutionalisation Action Plan for the 2009-2015 period; 2. The audit period shall be from 1 July 2015 to 15 October 2015. 3. The deadline for submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors shall be 15 October 2015. "November 15th, 2015"
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. Following is a report drawn up by the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Please, Mr. Cholakov, introduce him to us from the stands. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports on a draft decision on the award of the Court of Auditors to carry out a comprehensive audit of the actions of the State Agency for Child Protection in respect of financial resources for: preparation of a technical assignment under the Project "Children for All', conducting trainings and concluded civil contracts under the OPAC, as well as for the study of the implementation of the Action Plan for Deinstitutionalisation, for the period 2009 - 2015, No 554-02-49, submitted by Sultanka Petrova group of MPs On behalf of the importer, the project was presented by Mrs. Sultanka Petrova from the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. As justifications for carrying out a comprehensive audit of the activities of the State Agency for Child Protection in relation to the spending of funds for the preparation of a technical assignment under the Project "Childhood for All." In recent years, there have been systematic violations in this area with evidence of frank and purposeful abuse of children's rights in order to personally enrich system employees. In addition, there is information on unregulated absorption of funds allocated by the European partners under operational programmes under which the State Agency for Child Protection has implemented projects. The information is that within the framework of the Project "Functional Analysis of the State Agency for Child Protection" the fees for a trainer were BGN 3853. The importer accepted the observations of the President of the Court of Auditors and agreed with the proposal to refine the text of the draft decision. After the discussion was concluded and the vote was held with: 10 votes for the National Assembly, without the opposition and 3 votes for the abstention, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision with the following wording: ? RESPONSIBILITY? In order to award the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance of the State Agency for Child Protection for the period 2009-2015. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 6, para. 2, item 1 in conjunction with Art. 38, para. 2 of the Law on the Court of Auditors. HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Court of Auditors to audit the compliance of the State Agency for Child Protection for the period 2009 - 2015. 2. The audit period shall be from 1 July 2015 to 15 October 2015. 3. The deadline for the final report of the Court of Auditors to be submitted to the National Assembly is 15 October 15 November In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Cholakov. On behalf of Mrs. Sultanka Petrova. You are welcome to state your motives and, on the other hand, to clarify to us the draft decision that we need to vote on, as there is a gap between your proposal and what the committees have presented to us. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The children of Bulgaria are our greatest wealth and, naturally, our future, but in order for them to be our future, we, as MPs, have to make a lot of efforts and take care of them. Deinstitutionalization is a priority of our state policy, under which all parties and administrative bodies, NGOs, offices have reached consensus and have made certain commitments to this. This process begins at the end of 2009 and the beginning of 2010, Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union that has received European funds to implement this deinstitutionalization process. In this sense, we are not only committed to the 200 million. lv. from the European Union, but also our own responsibility as citizens, as parents, as representatives of the people, regardless of our party affiliation. It is as such that we want to carry out an assessment and proper assessment of the effectiveness of the work carried out by the State Agency for Child Protection. This can only be done on the basis of a full audit of the State Agency for the past period from 2010 to 2015 by the competent authority of the Court of Auditors. Deinstitutionalization is not only a project or some activity of the State Agency for Child Protection, it is a commitment of the State, entrusted to the State Agency for Child Protection and its functional competence, which consists not only in the mechanical formal removal of children and closure of the old type of social institutions, so-called homes for children deprived of parental care and is very complex, wide-ranging and directly affecting numerous human destinies, rights and interests. I believe that no one will dispute that there are positive results from the five projects implemented, included in the Action Plan and for the implementation of the vision of deinstitutionalization, but many experts in the social sphere, NGOs, media found many errors, problems and abuses of power, office, public finances, which undoubtedly compromised the efforts of the Bulgarian state and the entire process of deinstitutionalization. That is why it is now, at the beginning of the new programming period, it is necessary and extremely important to assess and verify the effectiveness of the public finances provided by the State Agency for Child Protection, budgetary and non-budget, designed to implement this important policy for our country. To date, no legal analysis has been conducted by the State Agency for Child Protection. Only certain results are indicated that are unable to give the overall picture of the deinstitutionalization process in the country. In view of this, we need the audit of the Court of Auditors to assess what has been done so far, on the one hand, and to take into account our further action both from a legislative and a socio-political plan. In the event that there are deficiencies, in the event of errors or abuses, we must take action in a timely manner to stop them and prevent them from doing so. This audit should provide answers to key questions: why and how the implementation of the project was admitted. In addition, to be led personally by the President of the State Agency, who should monitor and ensure respect for the rights of our children, as well as for the people involved in this process, namely parents, relatives, brothers and sisters, aunts and other relatives. Thus, instead of guaranteeing children's rights, there was a violation of rights and a conflict of interest. In an effort to extract strictly personal dividends, I fear that public national and European funds have been too irrationally spent without the desired effect. Instead of real analysis, risk assessments and impact of the process, only individual good examples were shown. There is no leadership in the process, without clear vision in perspective and policies in the new programming period. By carrying out the audit requested by us, it can be assessed whether the funds spent have met the objective of protecting the highest interest of our children. Or to put it another way: why, who and at what cost replaced the principles and objectives of the vision of deinstitutionalization, and instead of family support services, instead of integrated services to overcome the risks and care for the most severe cases, came to the establishment of family-type accommodation centres where there is nothing family-type. For the most part, they become new, no less malicious institutions. For what reason are the inhabitants of these centers restless, anxious, often aggressive, especially for themselves and others who are not adequately cared for because of the lack of trained specialists and combined with this miserable and low wages? Why are children still being taken out of the homes for children deprived of parental care without respect for and respect for children's rights? There is no need to look for connections between children and young people with relatives and relatives. There's no consistency. Brothers and sisters are separated. There's no prep for the kids. No trained personnel. There's no methodology. This is a gross violation of all rights of children, workers, parents, their relatives, national Bulgarian traditions and values. In many places in the new family-type accommodation centers, unfortunately, there is not only a reproduction of the institutional model of care, but also a deterioration in the quality of life of children and young people. While in the homes for children deprived of parental care, they were eating, they were moving, they were serving themselves, they were going to school, now, unfortunately, they're not doing it, they're looking at white walls and ceilings, there's no rehabilitation, there's no therapy, there's no leaving the room, even the buildings. It is unacceptable for this to be the purpose of the deinstitutionalisation process, so we must seek answers. There are numerous signals identified cases of gross violations of multiple principles and human rights in the process of deinstitutionalization, as the employees of the State Agency for Child Protection, the Agency for Social Assistance and the Departments of Child Protection are invariably pointed out. Moving without preparation, loading as a commodity somewhere where children are sometimes returned because they are difficult cases and municipalities do not want them. There is no integrated service for children and young people, there is no signed and accepted financial mechanism for redirecting funds from closed specialized institutions to the new services according to the municipalities, and not according to the cards for services laid down above. We therefore insist that a full audit and evaluation be carried out by the Court of Auditors, because it is time to assess at the same time the effectiveness and appropriateness of all this and what the money of the Bulgarian and European taxpayers has been spent for. Only in this way could the causes of the mistakes and their causes be seen and the policies and activities reorganised. The audit of the effectiveness and appropriateness of the deinstitutionalization process is necessary in order to avoid and not allow in the new programming period rough, sometimes with a fatal end for children and young people, mistakes that compromise the Bulgarian Parliament, the Bulgarian government and us as citizens. A comprehensive audit of implementation is needed to cover the combined activities of the State Agency for Child Protection, in the management and monitoring of policies, including the way the budget is implemented, compliance with the public procurement regime, asset management and a number of other aspects of its activities. Dear colleagues, Bulgaria gives a great deal of money for social policy, but unfortunately, without result, because the system for protection and protection of children's rights does not meet the needs of the Bulgarian society. It is closed, opaque, does not perform the tasks and policies of the Bulgarian society. Therefore, honourable Members, I ask you to support this proposal of ours for a full audit by the Court of Auditors of the State Agency for Child Protection, so that we can really do some good analyses, see the errors and not be allowed in the next programming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate on the draft decision. I see that there is a gap between the submitted draft decision and the one proposed by the committees. I hope for editorial proposals as well. Here you are, Mrs. Stoyanova. First statement request.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the proposal of a fellow Member from the Patriotic Front has been examined very carefully by the Budget and Finance Committee there we have heard the reasons, we have discussed these motives. We had invited representatives of the Agency, representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to hear their opinion as well. In fact, this Commission has established two things. Firstly, all MPs united around the idea of supporting such an audit. Because for me and my fellow Members, this audit may show weaknesses, but it will also show that this Programme, regardless of the weaknesses in its implementation and implementation, is actually one of the successful programs of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the OPAC programme itself for administrative capacity and we have witnessed the fact that we have almost no children left in institutions, everything is deinstitutionalized. I also support, in a personal capacity, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, the Court of Auditors to enter and carry out this audit, making sure that there is one fundamental conclusion that the Programme is successful, that this process is indeed over and it is successful. At the same time, I hope that, if there are weaknesses that the importer was talking about, they will be reflected and recommendations given for their removal in order to truly remove these children from the institutions, to be sufficiently cared for and guaranteed the conditions for their development and integration. At the same time, in the Commission, we have examined very carefully the clear wording that has been proposed. Subject to the requirements of the Law on the Court of Auditors, for what types of audits it can carry out, what are the different types of audits and on content, we had to make a change in the wording and entrust the Court of Auditors in particular with what kind of audit we expect it to do. This is the closest that corresponds to the audit of compliance with the implementation as it should be laid down under the Law on the Court of Auditors. For this reason, all these things that the colleague had proposed to be the subject of the audit and which she presented to us a short time ago, namely the preparation of technical assignments under the project to act for all, the conduct of trainings and civil contracts that have been concluded under this project, as well as the study of the implementation of the Action Plan to the vision for deinstitutionalization for the entire period of the Programme, in this part of the Project, we believe that they can and will be met precisely by the methods, means, opportunities and international standards for auditing give the auditors by the Court of Auditors, namely the audit of the compliance of the Action Plan to the vision for deinstitutionalisation for the relevant period 2009 - 2015. Someone in the next moment may say: "But in this way you are only talking about the plan. Does this mean, therefore, that what has been proposed in advance here, namely the preparation of technical assignments, trainings, civil contracts and so on, will be included, or will it thus be excluded from this audit? On the contrary, colleagues. I guarantee you that it is precisely under the rules of the audit of compliance with all these public contracts, civil contracts, respectively technical assignments on which these awards of civil contracts and public contracts are drawn up that will be the subject of consideration by the auditors, of course, not in their full volume of 100%, but in accordance with the risk assessment requirements, each of those actions implemented under the Programme will be audited by the auditors. So the importer also agreed with what we ended up doing in the final version of the draft decision that we will offer to your attention for voting. As this draft decision actually enters the Chamber much later than the period in which it was proposed and voted, I propose to this draft decision, which will surely be read by the President before the vote, to make changes in time limits.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u31	You're talking about the draft of your committee's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u32	That is right, for the Commission's draft report to make changes in time limits. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u33	From 1 October to 31 December In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u34	That's right. And in t. 3 where the deadline for the submission to the National Assembly of the final report is 15 November 2015, to record: The deadline for the submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors is 31 January This appropriation is I think these deadlines are quite reasonable and will be adopted by the importers, respectively, as part of the final decision that the Chamber will take. Therefore, honourable Members, I call on you to vote for this draft decision and to instruct the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance with the implementation of the Action Plan towards the vision of deinstitutionalisation for the period 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u35	Any lines to Mrs. Stoyanova? I won't. To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u36	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I would like to say that we will support the proposal made by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova for changing the deadlines, because, as you have found out, colleagues, the project for an audit decision of the State Agency for Child Protection was submitted by the Patriotic Front on 30 April 2015. However, here I would like to draw attention to a few essential things that Mrs. Menda Stoyanova spoke about, for example, when considering the previous bill. Pay attention, fellow Members, we are talking about serious doubts about the abuse of European funds. It is said that 2015 the two portfolio committees "the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Youth and Sports and Children have strongly supported this draft decision to carry out the audit. However, honourable Members, today is September 7, 2016, that is, a year and a half later, this unanimously voted draft decision does not see the light of day It is true that the program was loaded enough through 2015 and 2016, but we are still talking about the will of the National Assembly to set five audits, according to the Law on the Court of Auditors, specifically the Court of Auditors. In other words, it is the will of the National Assembly to control the legality of the use of public financial resources. Because that is actually the work of the Court of Auditors. Unfortunately, it cannot rule on whether an expenditure is appropriate or effective, but the Court of Auditors has a legitimate obligation to determine whether a public expenditure is lawful, i.e. whether abuse has been committed. The Bulgarian society and the media have repeatedly resented some fabulous expenditures, as is the specific case of the Program "Administrative Capacity", briefly OPAC. Colleagues, notice, we are talking about expenses of civil contracts and fees within a few thousand leva, carried out literally some in 7-8 hours, some in 48 hours. What was this great specialist, a lecturer who performed activities under a civil contract, how was he controlled to receive a fee of several thousand levs?! It's really important that we find out! It is important to understand how this money has been spent, in fact who on the back of the children has well enough lining up their material and financial situation with public resources! Believe me, the media always draws attention to MPs, their fat salaries and I don't know what. I did my hard work a year ago to make a reference and it turns out that of all senior officials, the MPs have the lowest remuneration, as strange as it sounds to honourable journalists. However, it is always the MP's fault, the MP gets a fat salary, only certain officials take 10 15,000. lv. monthly salaries in all forms. It is true that, with joint efforts, we have already succeeded in cutting out these vicious practices for civil treaties on the implementation of European programmes and projects under them, but we still have a moral obligation to carry out at least this audit, which has been unanimously adopted by the committees, in order to understand whether this money has been legally spent and to obtain more complete information. In just one week's time, the National Assembly is about to examine a very important law, which I do not know why it changes every year at this time. This is the Employment Promotion Act, which I criticised very seriously at the end of 2015. Now some of the same texts I criticised will be offered to you for change. However, there is a small detail and it is that the leading Committee on Labour and Social Policy on 8 June this year, with its decision, entrusted the Minister of Labour, who is also the Minister of Labour of this Agency, to prepare an analysis of the positive and negative trends in the budget policies of the Ministry, which, notice, represent 1 billion. 109 million. The Minister's answer I will tell you metaphorically: Mind your own business! We won't give you information referring to art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act, i.e. by 26 August, you will receive the financial statement. However, he who wrote the minister's reply forgot to read the same article 133 with his para. 1 which says that the Ministry presents these reports monthly, as well as quarterly, that is, in just one week's time, the MPs will adopt a law in the dark, with no information on what costs they have been incurred, how much the expenditure will be, because the media are already advertising this law, how people are supposed to be employed at a distance of more than 50 km. For example, from Varna you can come to Sofia and the state to pay you accommodation, kindergarten, including the Internet, that is, the Bulgarian taxpayer to pay someone all these overheads only on the condition that you are directed by the Labour Bureau. I am giving you these examples because they are absolutely similar to the draft audit decision of the Agency for Child Protection. You will all have to vote in the dark because none of you will know what the costs incurred in 2015 are based on the proposed changes to this Law. Nobody! That is why we want this audit to be carried out. National representative based on art. 137 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in its legislative activity are entitled to receive full information from all state and municipal institutions. But alas, it turns out that this article is only a book and we are getting a continual refusal to provide us with such information. Therefore, what is written in the Constitution that Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary direction is practically no longer acting, that is to say, the authority of the supreme authority in the Republic of Bulgaria is totally undermined, and that is by the executive authority, the one that is appointed by all of us here, who represent the people, according to the Bulgarian Constitution. I call on you to support the audit proposal, as we have supported the BSP colleagues' proposal to carry out an audit of the Centre for Urban Mobility. It was right and right. So I hope that today there will be serious support for this proposal, and at the end of the year we will find out what the money for deinstitutionalization is ultimately spent on, whether it is legally spent, who has received these serious fees under civil contracts, how public contracts have been carried out, who has benefited from them. There are many questions and we need to get answers which, unfortunately, we did not get in 2015, but I hope now, at the end of 2016, we will get them. I am convinced that there will be no MP who does not support this proposal because it is right. Unfortunately, it was very late that he entered the Chamber for consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u37	Your group had the opportunity to suggest it at least twice since when you were first in rotation, or second as now, but you didn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u38	We have proposed other laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u39	Shared responsibility, Mr. Bayraktarov. Any lines to it? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u40	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I take the floor for a very short speech, as the problem of deinstitutionalization of children in Bulgaria is quite close to me. Just to remind you that I was the head of the World Bank project management unit, the European Union for raising the welfare of children in Bulgaria, which has developed all the measures that the State Agency for Child Protection is now implementing in practice. I would like to say from the outset that we will support this decision of the National Assembly, but I would also like to make a warning from the stands of the National Assembly. What we're going to be checking right now has been checked repeatedly so far. It has been checked both in Bulgaria and by the European institutions. All actions related to the removal of children from institutions, the financing of alternative forms for their socialization and care, shall be checked very deeply and carefully, including by OLAF. We are currently doing a check-up, and the most likely thing that will come out as a result is to confirm that the checks were correct. My warning is this: let us, when we want to assign such tasks to the Court of Auditors on the powers we have as a National Assembly, be very careful. Our resources are very limited. We do not have the right to place indefinitely many such tasks on the Court of Auditors, and it seems to me that there are significantly more important state institutions and bodies that could be subjected to such an inspection as the National Electricity Company. Because we are currently throwing a lot of money, public and private resources into funds for stabilizing Bulgaria's energy system, but no one checks how this money is spent in NEK. We have NRICs with an awful lot of expenses. We have a BJ. It seems to me that these are significantly more dangerous and riskier enterprises where the relevant checks should be carried out, not waste resources checking something that has already been checked several times. I am convinced that now you can write it down, then, when you see what the result is, to remember what I have told you that this check will end with confirming the results of the checks already repeatedly carried out on this program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u41	Any lines to Mr. Ermenkov? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u42	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Ermenkov, I absolutely agree with everything you've said. Perhaps it is a good idea for fellow Members of the Patriotic Front to carry out this audit, but against the background of the checks already carried out, I think that deinstitutionalisation is the most visible process from both Europe and within. I am up to make a reply to Mr. Ermenkov so that I do not take the floor for a statement that I have learned precisely from my colleagues from the SACP that there is currently an inspection by the Court of Auditors. I will not specify the years, but they are 2014 and 2015. And we now want to duplicate this. I would support you because every audit leads to transparency. If anyone has any doubts about rejecting it, but in this case, it seems unnecessary. You think about it and tell me what to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u43	Second line? Here you go, Mrs. Petrova. Third line, Mrs. Stoyanova. You have awakened the interest of the people's representation, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, there is nothing more important than the lives and health of our children. In this regard, I would like to tell you that until now, the State Agency for Child Protection has not conducted an examination of the entire deinstitutionalisation process. I don't know what checks you're talking about, but I can't accept that an 11-year-old child will be moved 13 times to institutions. I cannot accept that birth brothers and sisters are divided into foster families and family-type accommodation centres. I cannot accept that one year after the family-type accommodation centers have been built, their ceilings and walls fall. There are things that really need to be answered. Please, guys! I also need to ask you to support our proposal for the audit of the State Agency for Child Protection so that we can take account of this period where the errors are and not allow them in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u45	And Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u46	Mr. Ermenkov, when you started your speech and I said to myself: "Well, Mr. Ermenkov here, what is this topic? But we can't get through without the energy accent, otherwise it won't be Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Ermenkov, Mrs. Petrova is right. There is nothing more important than the life and health of children, especially of disadvantaged children, who are sensitive and physically healthy, not only physical health. And that is precisely why I believe that such an audit, even though it is late, even though you are right that the programme is over, the money has been paid to be paid, several types of audits have been carried out on the implementation of the programme by various certification bodies Because, Mr. Ermenkov, otherwise all impartial listeners will say: You, together with the BSP, because in the end it is also about the period in which the President appointed by you headed the Commission, GERB and BSP want to cover their tracks there. No, ladies and gentlemen, we will support it, we will want this audit to be carried out, we will want to read the findings of the Court of Auditors' report. Because the life and health of children are very important. I believe that this is one of the most successful programmes and this will be said in the report. Because at the moment we no longer have children in social institutions in miserable conditions not only of the physical and material type, but also of the mental and psychological type. Just because some of the houses have fallen the ceiling does not mean that this is not a better solution for children to be taken out of social homes, to make the necessary steps to socialize and integrate them into society so that the transition from their childhood to their maturity can be successful. Mr. Ermenkov, I would urge you, despite your reasonable arguments, to support this decision. [[the President signals that time has run out]] To show that we are not afraid of this audit. On the contrary, he will show the success of the program.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u47	The weather, Mrs. Stoyanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u48	Excuse me, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u49	A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u50	Madam President, honourable Members! The interest in what I said has awakened to you since the second sentence. [[Elevator bell dings]] because I said in the second sentence that we would support this decision. I don't know why you stayed convinced that we wouldn't support him. But two things I want to put in front of parentheses. The first is not a question of the importance and importance of the problem with children, especially with disadvantaged children. There is no way to challenge the importance of the problem.. the future of Bulgaria. It is clear that it is an exclusive obligation of every citizen, parent, MP, everyone who lives in Bulgaria. We're not questioning that at all. What I am trying to tell you is that these are activities which, precisely because of their public, significant interest, should be checked by the institutions without the National Assembly reminding them to do this work. That's what I meant. And to say that there are some areas that are currently not at the attention of the state, but should be of attention as activities that also spend an awful lot of public resources without knowing where this resource is going and what the results of it are. Nothing more. Once again, I stress that we will support it. The only thing I might repeat once again at the risk of becoming annoying to you is that this check, be assured, will end as I told you. It will confirm what has been verified so far and the results of these checks. Nothing more. Again, if you do not understand me, for the third time: The Bulgarian Socialist Party will support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u51	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? No. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. Colleagues, following the presentation of the reports of the two committees on which the draft decision was allocated, we are familiar with the editing of the two committees on this project. An update within the deadlines was proposed under the Committee on Budget and Finance Report. I will therefore read what the draft decision looks like with the updated deadlines: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the award to the Court of Auditors of an audit of compliance for the implementation of the Deinstitutionalisation Action Plan 2009 - 2015. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance with the implementation of the Deinstitutionalisation Action Plan for the 2009-2015 period; 2. The audit period shall be from 1 October 2016 to 31 December 2016. 3. The deadline for submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors is 31 January 2017 We vote, fellow Members. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The decision has been adopted unanimously. Moving on to the next point: A SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR THE LEGAL PERSONS WITH A UNSTAPANIAN POSITION, No 502-01-83, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2015. Adopted at first reading on 12 February 2016 Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mr. Kirilov, we are listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u52	Madam President, honourable Members, before we begin the second reading of the Bill, I ask for a procedure for admission in the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Vergenia Micheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u53	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u54	Thank you, Madam President. The report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, No 502-01-83, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 October 2015, adopted at first reading on 12 February 2016. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u55	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u56	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In § 1 t. 1 to be amended as follows: "1." In para. 2 is finally added after its announcement in a register led by the Registry Agency to the Minister of Justice. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u57	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 98 MPs: 22, against 48, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 1 by importer, supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 89, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u58	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Boyka Marinska, Snezhana Dukova and Milena Damyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov: In § 2 of Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1.1. The current text becomes para. 1. 1.2. A new para is being created. 2 - 12 with the following content: The State shall conduct a policy to support the development of civil society organisations and shall create conditions for the promotion and financial support of civil initiatives. State policy in the field of civil society organizations is implemented by the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers shall adopt and update periodically a Strategy to support the development of civil society organizations in the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The Civil Society Development Council of the Council of Ministers shall be established to develop and implement policies to support the development of civil society. Representatives of non-profit legal entities for public benefit activities and representatives of state institutions are involved in the Council. President of the Council is the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for implementing the Strategy under para. 2. (4) The Council under para. 3 carry out the following activities: 1. give opinions on all draft regulations, strategies, programmes and plans relating to the activities of civil society organisations; 2. coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Strategy to support the development of civil society organizations in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Strategy Action Plan; 3. propose to the Council of Ministers an action plan, including financial, to implement the strategy under point 3. 2 for each subsequent year and shall review and evaluate its implementation; 4. collect information on the financing of civil society organisations with public funds in order to determine the effectiveness of the funds allocated; 5. make an annual review of the needs and problems of civil society organizations as well as their results and achievements; 6. assist the process of interaction between state and local authorities and civil society organisations; 7. define the priorities and adopt the rules and procedures for promoting and financial support of projects of public importance to non-profit legal entities for carrying out a socially useful activity. (5) The Council under para. 3 shall consist of 15 members, including a chair, which shall be determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers for a period of 3 years. The members of the Council of non-profit legal entities shall be a majority and shall be elected on the basis of a transparent and competitive procedure which has the following stages: 1. public announcement of the website of the Public Consultation Portal; 2. prior registration of all organisations wishing to participate; 3. nominating of organizations - candidates for members of the Council; 4. selection of candidates by voting of pre-registered candidates; 5. The organisations receiving the most votes shall broadcast their representative as a member of the Council and its alternate. (6) Non-profit legal persons for public benefit activities, members of the Council under para. 3 must have experience in carrying out public benefit activities in support of civil society development and civil participation for at least 5 years. (7) The Council of Ministers shall determine by rules the organisation and activities of the Council under para. 3. (8) For the promotion and financial support of projects of public importance to non-profit legal entities for the pursuit of public utility activities, funds under the budget of the Council of Ministers shall be provided and spent annually. (9) The evaluation of the projects and the distribution of the funds under para. 8 shall be carried out by criteria, conditions, rules and procedures adopted by the Council. (10) The administrative service of the Council's activities under para. 3 is provided by the administration of the Council of Ministers. (11) The members of the Council under para. 3 shall not receive remuneration for their participation and shall not be eligible for funding projects. (12) For its activities, the Council under para. 3 annual by 30 June shall be reported to the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 2 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the CPNS: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4, para. 12 Finally, a report on the funds spent and the results achieved under Art. 12 shall be added. 4, para. 8..................................................... The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2. Madam President, a technical correction is required here. Please add the following: 4 is amended as follows: the text on the report which I will now read, adopted by the Commission: "Supporting and promotion by the State" Art. 4. (1) The State may assist and promote non-profit legal entities designated for carrying out public service activities through tax and other financial and economic reliefs, as well as those financed under conditions and under the order laid down in the relevant special laws and in compliance with State aid rules. (2) The State shall conduct a policy to support the development of civil society organisations and shall create conditions for the promotion and financial support of civil initiatives. State policy in the field of civil society organizations is implemented by the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers shall adopt and update periodically a Strategy to support the development of civil society organizations in the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The Civil Society Development Council of the Council of Ministers shall be established to develop and implement policies to support the development of civil society. Representatives of non-profit legal entities shall participate in the Council for public benefit activities. President of the Council is the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for implementing the Strategy under para. 2, which does not participate in the vote. (4) The Council under para. 3 carry out the following activities: 1. give opinions on all draft regulations, strategies, programmes and plans relating to the activities of civil society organisations; 2. coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Strategy to support the development of civil society organizations in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Strategy Action Plan; 3. propose to the Council of Ministers an action plan, including financial, to implement the Strategy under point 3. 2 for each subsequent year and shall review and evaluate its implementation; 4. collect information on the financing of civil society organisations with public funds in order to determine the effectiveness of the funds allocated; 5. make an annual review of the needs and problems of civil society organizations as well as their results and achievements; 6. assist the process of interaction between state and local authorities and civil society organisations; 7. define the priorities and adopt the rules and procedures, as well as allocate the funds to promote and support projects of public interest to non-profit legal entities for carrying out a socially useful activity. (5) The Council under para. 3 shall consist of 15 members, including a Chair, which shall be determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers for a period of three years on the basis of a transparent and competitive procedure which shall have the following stages: 1. public announcement of the website of the Public Consultation Portal; 2. prior registration of all organisations wishing to participate; 3. Nominating of organizations - candidates for members of the Council under para. 3; 4. selection of candidates by voting of pre-registered candidates; 5. The organizations receiving the most votes shall broadcast their representative as a member of the Council under para. 3 and his replacement. (6) Non-profit legal persons for public benefit activities, members of the Council under para. 3 must have experience in carrying out public benefit activities in support of civil society development and civil participation for at least 5 years. (7) The Council of Ministers shall determine by rules the organisation and activities of the Council under para. 3. (8) For the promotion and financial support of projects of public importance to non-profit legal entities for the pursuit of public utility activities, funds under the budget of the Council of Ministers shall be provided and spent annually. (9) The evaluation of the projects and the distribution of the funds under para. 8 is implemented by the Council under para. 3 by criteria, conditions, rules and procedures adopted by the Council. (10) The administrative service of the Council's activities under para. 3 is provided by the administration of the Council of Ministers. (11) The members of the Council under para. 3 shall not receive remuneration for their participation and shall not be eligible for funding projects. (12) For its activities, the Council under para. 3 annual by 30 June shall be reported to the Council of Ministers and shall also present a report on the funds spent and the results achieved under art. 4, para. 8...................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u59	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u60	Thank you, Madam President. According to the text of the Commission.............................................................................................. 3 is written that the Council for Civil Society Development is established. A concept has been introduced here, which nowhere in the Law is defined what this civil society is. In practice, the citizens' society is a much wider concept than a non-profit entity. It's just that this isn't certain. Moreover, it is further said how this civil society will be developed: through a Council consisting of 15 members, including a Chairman, this is described in para. 5.. which is determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers. The election of the members of this Council of Ministers to the Council of Ministers is evidently through the organizations receiving the most votes. Who are these organizations that have received the most votes supposed to the first five, 10, 15? They're not going to be picked anywhere?! Next, in para. 9 is described that the evaluation of the projects and the distribution of the funds under para. 8 shall be implemented by the Council under para. 3 by criteria, conditions, rules and procedures adopted by the Council itself. In practice, here the Council of Ministers creates organizations that are financed by it, the administration of the Council of Ministers is also served by this Council of NGOs. In my opinion, these proposals aim at creating an opportunity for the Council of Ministers to raise such pro-governmental organisations dressed in the form of a non-profit legal entity in a socially useful activity. All these fundings will be carried out from the budget of the Council of Ministers, which I think is not normal, is not acceptable, especially when it concerns a non-governmental organisation. This has been done in these proposals. It is obvious that they have quite developed the original version, not to say they have rewritten, they have developed quite new motives, and the sub-motivations are what I have said, which is why I think that we cannot support this particular text of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u61	Any lines to Mr. Popov? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u62	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to make a remark mainly in the part of Mr Popov's reasoning concerning the definition of the Civil Society Development Council. We have had a lengthy debate at the Legal Commission regarding this concept. In principle, I share the general consideration of my colleague Popov that the subject matter of this regulation is non-profit legal entities. But in para. 3 is about the planning process, which is carried out by the Council of Ministers and the possibility for the Council of Ministers to make a broader strategy regarding civil society. The main engines, the main entities that activate or initiate those in civil society, are non-profit legal entities. So after this lengthy debate, the Commission consolidates its opinion on supporting the more general, more principled and more promising expression with regard to the name of the future Council. In any event, we should take into account that a wider scale should be sought in such a planned procedure. Otherwise, in the other opinions that my colleague Popov mentioned, I also have some considerations, but I will decide later whether to develop them explicitly in a separate speech. Basically, as a parliamentary group, we support the proposed text with regard to § 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u63	Second line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Popov, I will focus on just one aspect, although there were a few that you mentioned, but my colleague has taken an interest in others. You say that in practice these funds will be allocated under the budget of the Council of Ministers and this will almost create an opportunity for the Council of Ministers to determine and allocate the funds as it sees fit. I would like to tell you that, and at the moment when we vote on the State Budget Act in this House, we distribute some funds that are then paid by the Council of Ministers' budget. Now, for the first time, what is proposed in the Law is to determine only the amount of funds each year, but their very distribution not by the relevant NGOs, but by the relevant projects presented and developed by non-governmental organisations, through a system of evaluation of these projects to be carried out precisely by the NGOs themselves. I believe that this 15-member Council is precisely the guarantee for this. Moreover, earlier proposals provided for this 15-member Council to include deputy ministers, ministers, that is, to be a mixed body. This would then really enable the members of the government involved in this Council to give priority to one or another project. We're removing that from our proposal and I'm glad the Legal Committee has accepted it. Indeed, only non-governmental organisations with their broad representation in this Council can decide which projects are quality, which projects would bring added value and can be sustainable over time in order to be subject to such funding. And now this is done, but it is done without the participation of civil society and without clear criteria and evaluation of each of the applicant projects. I believe that this proposal is much better and has no such purpose, such a backward thought as you see in it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u65	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u66	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to Mr. Kirilov's line after having had the idea of a broader concept, political parties and trade unions, even companies with their owners and employees, are included in the civil society. It's all part of a civil society. I therefore say that the concept here is too broad and undefined as a concept in the Non-profit Legal Entities Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u67	Offer a legal definition by not liking this one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u68	I am at all suggesting that this should be felt by the civil society, I am going to propose it, in fact, now, because it cannot, in a definition, cover such a comprehensive matter as civil society. In one definition, this is very difficult, and if I do, I'll probably become a prize winner right now. Regarding Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's second line. Here it is clearly stated that the assessment of the projects and the allocation of funds in para. 9 shall be implemented by the Council. How will this Council allocate budget funds on what basis? Isn't that unconstitutional? Is there no practice of the Constitutional Court in this regard? There is no way this thing is going to happen - a council to allocate a budget to the Council of Ministers, albeit with the participation, as you say, to civil society, whatever that means, whatever you put into this concept. From this point of view, al. 9 I don't think it's refined, and I don't think it's constitutional at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u69	Are you making any editorial proposal on the text of the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u70	Alinea 3 to sound: The Development Council of the Council of Ministers is being established to develop and implement policies to support development...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u71	Hold on, we're talking about the Commission's version. Alinea 9th is on page. There is no such text as you read.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u72	According to the Commission's Here it is written: The Civil Society Development Council is being established to replace the civil society with the non-profit-oriented legal entities in this sentence. Then, at the end of the sentence...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u73	A Council for Development of...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u74	..legal non-profit entities for their support and development....so sound the sentence itself. Without a legal definition of what a civil society is...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u75	And then in the text everywhere...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u76	To be a non-profit legal person, or respectively, a non-profit legal person, because it is one of the instruments of civil society, but it does not cover the whole civil society in any way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u77	Thank you, Mr. Popov. To speak, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The whole change in the bill is caused by art. 2 which we are discussing, and that is why it is causing this attention. I will not embark on the development of the concept of civil society, because it has a very long historical evolution. Its primary purpose is to create a distinction between the state as an organisation of power and other organisations that have their own role. Nowadays, as some authors have defined, this term is something like a concept of a "cufar" in which all sorts of things can be put according to different ideological and conceptual concepts. However, since we are not at a seminar here, I would like to draw attention to the practical consequences of this provision. In the alternative to adopting the text proposed by the Commission, I support the proposal made by my colleagues from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria to drop the text. However, as arguments can be made about the state in any way to support certain civil organisations, I will try to make a proposal for editorials in some of the paragraphs that I think do not distort the meaning of such effort. Our Constitution explicitly provides that certain organisations can be supported and this applies to cooperatives. The question is, do we have any reason to make any special financial support for civil society organisations? I can also accept this, as is formulated here, for those who are created in public benefit, because the fact is that the state in some cases entrusts its functions to certain public organisations and they work in the performance of public tasks. Here I do not know whether they are aware of the importers, and I suppose the initiators who are from the civil sector themselves that they are returning to a concept which in Bulgaria was clearly launched for the first time exactly 30 years ago Okay, let's assume that you're going back to that view, but how is it to be instrumentalized so that it doesn't work out so that the state can hold civil society organizations? In my opinion, if we follow the main effects of the financials, we see such a trend. I put aside that once again we are talking about strategies, about advice, that is, we are creating another administrative and bureaucratic form that is hardly justified, but I would like to make a proposal only with regard to the financial support of these organisations. It is clear that so far this is done to a large extent on a historical basis, through the Budget Act, and it is now understood that the state budget will only determine the total amount of these aid funds and then the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from this Council, will distribute them. However, I believe that the role of the budget should remain by giving the Council the right to an initiative, respectively to the Council of Ministers, but ultimately the National Assembly should publicly allocate these funds. If it finds it necessary in some cases to correct such projects or activities of organizations, it should do so here. In view of that, I propose in para. 8 Finally, where it is said that every year funds are planned and spent to drop the final words on the budget of the Council of Ministers and to replace them from the state budget. Accordingly, in para. 9 The project's policy is to add here the proposals for the allocation. The text continues, the funds under para. 8 The words of the Council under para 8 shall be removed. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules and procedures for the implementation of this Regulation. 3.................................................................................. That is, it is understood that he will have the right to a final proposal, but the final decision will be parliament's. The other, last change, is in para. 11 after the comma to drop the text as well as cannot participate with projects for funding and to be replaced by the expression.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Madam President, my first two proposals can be voted in general, as they cover one theme and the second proposal to be voted on under para. 2, separately, because notice what trick is offered here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u79	By para. 11? Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u80	By para. 11, yes. Because what trick is offered here? Yes, members of the Council cannot apply with independent projects, but we will most likely be witnesses when the main funds will be distributed among organisations that have found representation in this Council. So even according to the concept of importers, in my opinion, the change in para must be accepted. 11, and I have already said the reasons why to change the editing of para. 8th para. 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u81	First line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Stoilov, I am very glad that you here from this tribune have correctly understood the meaning and concept that we wanted to put into our proposal, and we have put it into place. The fact is now so, and you know it in the State Budget Act we have a table that we vote on, it again distributes funds that are otherwise in the budget of the Council of Ministers. They're not somewhere else. They're still there, but in this table we tell historically who. The idea is exactly that, so I suggest you in the break, because we will not vote until the break, purely editorially, as you suggest, to clear the text, so that it is clear to everyone that it is not really about any distribution by the Council of Ministers, but about a proposal, final and final, of this Council of non-governmental organisations, which is only financed by the funds of the budget of the Council of Ministers and not determined in any way by it. I agree with your editing to clear the text of para. 11, because this was the objective, namely those involved in the evaluation and the proposal for allocation of funds, not to be the beneficiaries themselves with their projects and to distribute themselves some funds inside. If this is not clear enough from the texts, let us discuss it, make such an editorial proposal to accept this House in order to avoid ambiguity in the interpretation of these texts. The will of both the importer, I suppose, and of the National Assembly, if he supports us, is exactly the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u83	Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u84	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Stoilov! I join the line, the opinion and the proposal made by the previous replicating MP Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. It is indeed possible to make an amendment and it is acceptable in these three paragraphs, and I particularly want to distinguish it by para. 9 What the previous speaker Mr Popov pointed out, since there is such an interpretation, let us at the end of para. 9 to add a proposal to the Council of Ministers. That is, to make it clear that the Council is taking a final decision, but on its content it is a proposal to the budgetary officer. Unfortunately, I do not see in this Chamber the colleague Grozdan Karadjov, who, in the debates in the Legal Committee, extended the argumentation of their opinion, including the arguments of the working group that proposed this Bill, and this working group consisted mainly of NGOs, their idea and concept is indeed for distribution. For distribution on a board of operators that are non-profit legal entities. As you can see, we have not accepted this proposal in this form entirely, as proposed by colleague Grozdan Karadjov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u85	Third line? A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Stoyanova, Mr. Kirilov, your lines have largely been taken as supporting the proposal and justification I made for him. It remains here to decide whether the final word will be the National Assembly or the Council of Ministers. By that, I think we're different from you. I believe that we should not back down from the state to which we have reached the final framework of these funds to be determined by the National Assembly. I agree with you that it is better for the Council to make proposals, but for a public authority to be responsible for their distribution, because otherwise it is so that the state allocates some funds and distributes them among themselves. When the issue of responsibility arises, it will be said: no one is responsible for this work, because the Council is an autonomous civil entity, and ultimately a certain political and management responsibility must be borne by the state authority which grants the funds, as it has ultimately approved this. It is interesting to me that this initiative mainly comes from reformers who are otherwise large liberals and should say that the state and the civil sector should be completely independent, not the state to buy civil support. Here we have to be responsible enough, because often these organizations say how great they are, what merit they have, how much self-sufficient they should be, and finally, when the time comes to how the issues are solved, to say: "We sat in front of the state, we put our bowl, rudely speaking, and we rely on it to give us the means. Here we need to find the balance of how, indeed, when there are powerful structures, including foreign ones, which finance civil organisations in Bulgaria, we should not be left without the possibility of Bulgaria having certain support, let us say it, for the civil sector, but at the same time this civil sector does not become a function of the money, which is granted to it by the state, and the consequence of this is to select the different civil organisations of those who are truly independent, and others who are pro-government. This division exists in a number of countries, including developed, with much greater traditions in democracy, and these truths must be clearly said if we want to resolve matters in principle and not in a conjunctural way. So I'm ready, if you have the will, to look for solutions that lead to achieving the goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u87	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. This is where we break the debate. At the time of the interruption, I am counting on the texts to be specified. At 12:00, we proceed with blitz control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u88	Honourable Members of Parliament, the meeting shall continue with the meeting provided for each first Wednesday of the month by the plenary sittings: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY THE ENTITY OF TURN. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. I'm reminding you of the procedure. It is given to a Member of the National Assembly to ask an up-to-date oral question within two minutes, three minutes for an answer by those involved in the blitzcontrol, respectively the lines and the duplicates are two minutes each. Each parliamentary group has the opportunity to ask two questions. Such an opportunity has one question for each round of questions and MPs who are not members of a parliamentary group. I recall that according to art. No. 104, para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not avail themselves of their right under art. 51, para. In this order, statements and declarations may not be made on behalf of parliamentary groups. Procedure Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u89	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of BSP left Bulgaria, I would like to express a strong disagreement that it is now becoming a practice for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria not to fulfil his obligations under the Constitution and not to respect the National Assembly. The apology of the Prime Minister for having an international meeting today is unacceptable, as the Prime Minister is obliged to comply with his agenda and his meetings with the National Assembly's agenda. I would like to assure you that we are extremely interested, we will check and follow up on this international meeting of the Prime Minister, at what level this meeting is, what the results are and what he has required to ask in practice an innocent absence for answers to questions from the opposition, and also from the ruling majority. Mr. Prime Minister had to be here to explain what arrangements and what results Bulgaria has for its meetings in Turkey, then in Germany, what are the expected results for Bulgaria from the upcoming meetings for the supply of energy sources and transit of such sources across Bulgaria, to explain why thousands of migrants are suddenly found at the Serbian border, despite the millions of fence costs and border guards. Madam President, I ask you to tell the Prime Minister that he cannot constantly disrespect Parliament and not appear here because we are a parliamentary republic! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u90	Mr. Gechev, as mentioned, and earlier today at the Board of Presidents, I gave you the letter of intent sent by the Prime Minister on 2 September. I have shared with you and it is very well known to you that the organization of an international meeting implies several countries and coordination of the time that is convenient for all participants in such a meeting. First is the group of GERB. His first question will ask Mr. Valentin Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! I will put a question in relation to the long-standing project, which has been quite illusory from the beginning. Many skeptics looked at him with a mockery. My question will be addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have stood strongly behind this project, as has the Prime Minister. We know that on 5 and 6 September there was a conference in Varna. There we heard an even stronger message from the European Commission, which firmly stood behind this project. My question is: what is the prospect for the implementation of this project in Bulgaria? Is it an alternative to other projects, and is the European Commission firmly behind this, so that liquidity can be made to this project, that Russian gas can also reach "Hub," because it is a very important project for the region? We know that such a hub in the Balkans and Southeast Europe does not exist. We, as a transiting country, want to know whether we will be able to maintain this role and not of a gas user by keeping only our position of transiting and not expanding this position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u92	To answer the question there is the word Mr. Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, the topic is undoubtedly up-to-date and important on the one hand in connection with the two days of talks near Varna. There was a lot of information in the media. I'm not gonna be her interpreter. On the other hand, this parliamentary procedure due to time constraints is in no way suitable for more detailed analysis. Alongside that, perhaps what did not come up in imperative form on the pages of the newspapers and which could be supplemented is this. Firstly, what is our hierarchy of priorities when we talk about energy and especially about the gas sector? We are undoubtedly leaving the security of supply because they are important for the lives and health of the people, and they are important for the Bulgarian economy as well. Right after that, along with security, we need to comment on the price. It has the exact same meaning. In third place, but in no case is Bulgaria's role as a transiter of equal value. It's not just a matter of income, it's not that revenue doesn't matter. This is an absolutely strategic issue and we have every reason to be suspicious when, for one reason or another, a discrepancy in legislation, geopolitical tremors, is at risk of Bulgaria being surrounded. This is a matter of national security. More explanations: the project for the gas hub "Balkan" is not thought to be a type of compensation or an attempt to trigger a plan "B" in connection with the suspended South Stream. He's something quality different. South Stream is a gas pipeline that passes through Bulgaria, which, if it would have been implemented in the past, would have had some benefits. However, South Stream is stopped. This is a very different type of platform, and I'm not just talking about infrastructure, I'm talking about the main difference. This suggests combining gas from different sources. The difference here is that when we mobilize gas from different sources, we have a chance for a competitive market. That's the big difference. Is it competitive for other projects? All gas projects are, to some extent, competitive. Especially after the tremors in the gas sector, there must be a new project coming up every half-year. Some are only commented, some will probably be realized, but as colleagues from the European Commission have confirmed, the implementation of the gas hub project is not dependent on any other project. We cannot comment on whether the gas hub is possible and realistic in relation to Turkish or any other type of stream. All preliminary studies show that, as the project has been developed, there is economic logic in it. It remains vital and economically promising, regardless of whether other energy projects will be implemented. What happened in the previous two days is by no means surprising, as far as seven or eight months we have been working strictly together with the European Commission until this result. The Commission's position sounded categorically: the gas routes of Northern Europe have very high capacities, with very high density. North Europe, both in terms of security and in terms of gas prices, is in a very good situation. It is time to pay attention to Southeast Europe. A critical, important step in this direction is precisely the gas hub. This is not only a principled position, that is: we support you, give you the opportunity and cooperate. This is also an open opportunity to finance part of the infrastructure related to the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u94	The line, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u95	Thank you. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the subject is very important. Unfortunately, time is really short. I think there should be a political consensus here, and this should be one of the topics on which we should have a national unity. We must protect the interests of Bulgaria. As Prime Minister Borisov said, not only do we tolerate the negatives when we are the starting point of the European Union, but also collect the positives. We therefore really need the support of the European Commission precisely in the poorest part of the European Union. I will give the opportunity if you can clarify more on this topic and tell us what the next steps are from here on out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u96	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u97	Firstly, in terms of consensus. There are two factors for a large project to be sustainable. One is to plan and implement it as unconflict with active Bulgarian and European legislation. That is why every effort has been made in this direction. The very fact that the European Commission says in advance: "Yes, this is a key European project, is a guarantee of its sustainability. The second is that it enjoys at least a minimum dose of political consensus, in so far as this is not a project that will be implemented by only one government. Given its scale, two or three governments will have the opportunity to work until its full implementation. After preliminary developments, the award of physical historis is now under way, which I hope will be completed as soon as possible. This period will be used in addition to technical work The meaning of the event in Varna was given the opportunity for all interested parties and clients and transiters and suppliers to work together with us. There is no guarantee that, for example, experts from the Ministry of Energy, gas companies or the Commission will make the most perfect development that meets market requirements. This must be done together with potential customers, suppliers and transiters. There should be no exception here. Here, we must not approach any prejudice. The project is based on at least four or five independent sources of gas, as I just commented. With regard to the issue, which is subject to particular political sensitivity, does the project also provide for the provision of Russian gas? Yes, that depends, however, on the Russian side's desire. They're invited. After the meeting two days ago, it even sounded an official invitation, not for bilateral talks, but for trilateral talks, which will clear Bulgaria, the European Commission, Russia, in which to clear all the details. If they are interested, if they see their benefit, I am convinced that there would be an opportunity for them to participate. If they don't want to, they won't be involved. The hub as infrastructure and as a trading platform can exist without additional supplies. When I say extra, I mean the ones on the Trans-Balkan gas pipeline. Undoubtedly, however, it would be much more attractive and much more cost-effective with additional quantities supplied via the Black Sea. What will be the result of these negotiations in advance is difficult to predict. Purely economic arguments show that there would be a benefit for everyone, including the Russian side. I doubt if anyone, when it's obvious, will miss it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u98	Next is a question from the group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Ermenkov. With a high degree of credibility will probably be on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u99	It makes sense. Madam President, ladies and Mr. Deputy Prime Ministers! I will start with an apology.. the question should be asked to the Prime Minister, but visible for some reason.... was fearsome, complex or cosmetic, it is gone. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] You didn't miss the word "cosmetic," did you? I'll ask Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Donchev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in the last few days the Bulgarian public was happy with the greats and exploits that the government of Bulgaria managed to achieve. Mr. Donald Tusk began to listen to our proposals for refugees, two energy specialists from the European Commission came and began to support the gas hub, as we understand, even Mr. Putin praised Mr. Boyko Borisov for his genius in the ideas on the development of our economic policy. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u100	The Parliamentary Tribune is the place for serious statements!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u101	At the same time in Varna, holding a gas supply forum for Bulgaria, i.e. providing gas supplies in Bulgaria, it was understood that we would do and continue to insist on building a hub that you yourself said without Russian gas would not be so cost-effective. I'm interested in this. Once, on the one hand, we are talking that we will be having triangular meetings with your government, we will meet with Russia, we will talk about the renewal of these energy projects, on the other hand, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria says that sanctions against Russia should continue, where exactly is the truth in your behaviour? In which part are you sincere? Are you sincere where you want us to have an equal, mutually beneficial dialogue with Russia, or where, elsewhere, it is more profitable for you to say that we should continue the policy of sanctions against them? What exactly are you doing right now? Do you specifically develop this mist to lose all of your conjunctural mistakes from the old days, or do you ultimately have your own logic that wouldn't be normal to me unless you suffered from a split personality as a government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u102	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There may be an answer when there is a question. I didn't understand what the question was, because it looked like a cross-check of the stamp, of course, with the arrangement of a person reading what type of stamp. Talks in the trilateral format should have, in so far as large gas infrastructure facilities, which involve consumption and transit, not only of one country, are not the only solution to the countries concerned. This must, in any case, be a European solution. I mark it as opposed to the approach in other projects, here we have approached in the most intelligent way, trying to work together, in advance with the European Commission, to avoid dramas and traumas similar to those of South Stream. With regard to sanctions, the only similarity is that this is also a common European solution. Given the fact that the issue is delicate, it is not envisaged in the procedure to answer the question with a question, but by mobilizing in this direction to drop the sanctions, apart from the parliamentary control procedure and at all talks in plenary, is it not appropriate to mobilise all your influence in the PES format and assign or force all governments that are dominated by the Party of European Socialists, all as a procedure and not as an application, as a procedure? Because the applications are very different from the Council's comments. To get them to offer the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u104	Remove the Foreign Secretary and we'll do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u105	A line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u106	Madam President, I will go from the question that has been asked to you. Mr. Donchev, we have submitted a draft decision of the National Assembly of Bulgaria, where it depends on both us and our vote, to drop the sanctions. It is now up to your parliamentary group whether you accept it or not. But I didn't understand the government's position. That was my question to you, not something else. As for whether and how consensus is reached, I propose that the consensus be achieved on the basis not of loyalty to the European Union, but on the basis of loyalty to the interests of the Bulgarian people! Because that's what's important and that's what's leading! It was not the European chiefs who elected you, but the Bulgarian people who lived on the basis of your right or wrong decisions. And the last thing I want to say to you. Do not be sure that the gas hub will be built and 100% financed. So here it is, you know this thing, to show you this annex, which says that one of the projects that could be built on a cluster 6-25 is going to be realized the last hub, not one of the others. I mean, maybe, sometime, if we happen to have a chance, there'll be a hub. Finally, the hub without gas is really, as you said, there is economic logic for itself, but most likely for those who will build it, not for the Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u107	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u108	I will not pay attention to the common format political statements or to the suffering of Mr. Borisov's absence. I'll try to concentrate on the issue of gas infrastructure. First of all, how can there be any comment as to whether something will be financed if it has not applied, yet no application form has been released? In order for such a thing to happen, the project must have reached a degree of technical maturity that will happen in a year. After a year, a purely technical path is needed. So to comment in advance on which will be financed or not, is absolutely not serious. And here you're missing something important. A similar project will neither, nor should, be based entirely on public funding. I have mentioned several times in different formations that the project should be market. [[(Voices: ……]] The person willing to buy, transit, must be drawn as a partner or possibly as a partner in a company or company on purpose. This is the biggest guarantee in the economic logic and appropriateness of the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u109	The Members of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms Group have the opportunity to question. Mr. Anastasov will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers! Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, my question is directed to you and is related to the constantly current topic of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The DPS welcomed the changes in the National Mechanism for Coordination of the Preparation and Conduct of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the EU in 2018 as a fully adequate response to the even greater challenge posed by the shifting of the schedule due to the UK's desire to get out of the schedule and the troika with Estonia and Bulgaria. As you know, Deputy Prime Minister, the Bulgarian Parliament with a ton of kindness is mostly concerned about the priorities and partly about the program of the Bulgarian Presidency. We have learned from the latest report on the implementation of the plan of preparation that the priorities of Bulgaria and the new threesome are to be updated. In this regard, the question of the parliamentary group of the DPS is: how do you think the shifting of the schedule will affect Bulgaria's priorities and which of the old priorities of Bulgaria as well as the old format of the troika will be maintained? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u111	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u112	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. MP! Indeed, the issue is important and I am glad that in the first blitzcontrol we have, this issue is present for the Bulgarian Presidency. We must do everything possible to move faster and compensate for these six months with which our Presidency is withdrawing. Not only are we in this situation, the colleagues from Estonia and Austria feel the same way, who have also gone six months ahead, but for Bulgaria as well as for Estonia, these are the first presidencies. So for us the challenge is, of course, greater. I'll answer your question. I really appreciate first of all what you said that the Prime Minister's close entry into the Presidency's coordination is really the right step. We're really on a deadline. The prime minister is focused on the most important events - European Councils, which are taking decisions with very severe and important consequences for the whole of the European Union. And so on the matter of priorities. We have three ladders, figuratively speaking. One of these is the Europe 2020 programme, which we cannot deviate from, as well as any other Presidency within the framework of the Legislation of this Parliament, the European Commission and the Council. That is, what we have talked to you about choosing three of these ten priorities, these flagship initiatives that have been proposed, remains valid. The second thing we need to take into account is the maturity of the so-called "fishes" or "files", i.e. the legislative work in which the Council participates together with the European Parliament and the Commission, at what stage they are, i.e. what files are mature enough to be able in the working groups of Bulgaria, which will chair them, to be able to reach consensus. And thirdly, of course, are the so-called accompanying events, which do not necessarily have the effect of legislation, but are very important. As Minister of Education and Science, I can tell you that in terms of education, the events would be exactly like that. Or what Minister Pavlova had planned for the second half of the year. All three things are equally important. The approach that we have chosen is with regard to the priorities to go from top to bottom, that is, every ministry by 31 August had to give, including, by the way, the Deputy Prime Ministers, its priorities, because in the ministries they are best aware of how the files will develop and where Bulgaria can most show through events. We will have a Brussels-based Presidency, but this does not mean that events that are related, for example, to migration, to the development of cohesion policy, is not good as a formal or informal council on which they will be considered, to have more visibility in Bulgaria. With regard to the internal market, Estonia will certainly take largely the lead in the digital sector, Bulgaria certainly largely in terms of the common energy policy and the creation of an energy market. I think that with a great deal of probability I can tell you that the focus will also be on small and medium-sized enterprises and on Europe's industrial agenda. This is with regard to the internal market. We will no doubt have issues related to refugees, migration, security, the protection of European citizens, and also as large topics related to privacy. These are topics that are developing in the European Union and will reach our Presidency. How far will the negotiations go between Parliament and the Council on individual files, let me say next time. On 13 September there was a first meeting at expert level with Estonia and Austria. My meetings with the Secretariat-General are 19, on 27 and 28 September there is a first political meeting with the troika to distribute the tasks. You know that according to the Lisbon Treaty, ours and each Presidency are drawn up in cooperation with the European Council and the General Secretariat. That's what I can tell you right now. The main theme of the European Council will be competitiveness because we are taking over the March European Council, not as if we were the second half of the year, a topic more about the budget. I will remain at your disposal once we have considered the priorities, to tell you how far we will go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u113	The line, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, thank you for your reply. I have a more specific question. The initial issue of the DPS Parliamentary Group has been formulated in exactly this way, because both we in Parliament and you, as a representative Deputy Prime Minister, know that the timing of the files or so-called "fishes" are very difficult to change. This is a very slow and difficult process, and it is linked to the possible priorities that we can have for the future the Presidency of the European Union. The bottom-up approach sounds good. I don't know how far he'll fit into this painting. However, I want to be optimistic, as I said: we want to be well-meaning. Despite the time challenge with the UK's exit, we seem to be lucky to have a little luck. The United Kingdom has six times presided over the Council of the European Union and there is no denying that it is one of the most experienced of the three that we had in the old format. The island definitely has very good positioning in the European institutions. As I understand from the British parliamentary debate, much of their old priorities are well prepared and carefully programmed, at least as a timer. The specific question with which I started is: has the government studied the possibility of the Bulgarian Presidency becoming part of these well-prepared priorities of the Kingdom, of course the majority of those of Estonia, because we are now taking their time frame into our own priorities and, of course, assessing the potential benefits of these carefully prepared dossiers and slips that will fall in our time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u115	A hole, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u116	You are right that the planned meetings and topics of the individual councils can be taken into account during the Bulgarian Presidency. But I want to be very honest with you. It is one thing when Britain says that its priority is financial services, since London is a financial centre, it is another if Bulgaria makes this proposal. It is one thing for Estonia to say that the digital economy is its priority, since they are leaders in Europe, another is for Bulgaria to do so. We have strengths, however, need to do what really fits us, where we can show and be stronger than others. With regard to the negotiations on the files, yes, we will enter into the rights of the UK, but with regard to what Bulgaria can do and to gather real support for European priorities during the Bulgarian Presidency, this must be something in which our country is truly strong. I think financial services are a very ambitious and interesting task, but without full guarantee from the Ministry of Finance, that is why we need this...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u117	There are other interesting priorities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u118	Yes, of course, in terms of security there is a priority and I think Bulgaria can do it. That is why we have chosen this approach: the ministries to say where they have the power to bring the European topic to the end. As for the opportunity to benefit from what has already been done by Britain and Estonia, we are a threesome. Every success of ours will be the success of the other two countries, and every success of ours will be able to bring it to the end. There are other interesting political topics related to the Cyprus issue, with the continuation of the negotiations of neighbouring countries, but we will talk about them in one of our next meetings.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Now we have our colleagues from the Reformation Bloc. Mr. Willy Lilkov will ask the first question on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u120	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev! My question concerns the gas hub, as this is an extremely important topic and I take it seriously, as everyone should be, as this is an extremely important project for Bulgaria. In this sense, as the talk on the gas hub is just beginning, I would like to clarify a few more questions that these days are not put to the attention. First of all, the success of such a project is largely dependent on the so-called sources of use. As a rule, such large facilities are constructed near their own sources of gas. In this sense, I would like to clarify what research in the Black Sea shows, because this is an extremely important prospect of the viability of the project and its future. Secondly, such facilities are usually combined with a repository. In this sense, are there studies to show whether there is an opportunity to develop a nearby repository that could be an element of this hub? And a third very important question: to launch such a project, it is very important to test the market model. What do studies on these three points show at this stage? Is such a market model made, what does it show? Do we have promising, favorable research for a source in the Black Sea? Are there any studies relevant for a storage facility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Lilkov. Next is a response from Deputy Prime Minister Donchev on today's current question about the gas hub. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Lilkov! Once again, it is unlikely that the parliamentary control procedure, especially the blitzcontrol procedure, is the most appropriate genre for the honourable National Assembly to receive further clarification on all important issues related to the ambitious issue of gas hub. I could, within what the limited time allows me, mark some of the answers, and the National Assembly will decide in what genre and format it is necessary for the talks to continue........................................... whether in a deliberate debate or hearing in the Energy Commission, it is a matter of the attention of the Members of the National Assembly. In terms of current research. I, of course, have information, as long as I keep track of the data and perspectives, but I am not authorized to report intermediate results here, although I wish to do so because they sound good. As I noted just a moment ago, the hub itself is not only a facility, it is rather a trading platform, not just a place, but a platform that allows to combine different sources and supply gas and they are not less than three-four, but in this case. This is important not only to generate quantities. In addition, the initial analysis shows that, in good circumstances, quantities of more than 40 billion can be generated from such a facility. More importantly, when there is gas from different sources, not only one passing along different routes, this is a chance to have real market and real competition, and all interested, first of all, of course, Bulgaria, to buy at such a price as is most convenient at the moment. I don't think I need to list the sources. In addition to the own yield we rely on, we have the Trans-Balkan gas pipeline there we can talk, no matter what happens to Russian transit through Ukraine, but at least in the coming years for quantities of the order of 25 billion. A neighbouring Romania, which satisfies about 90% of its own production market, sooner rather than later, will start exports, which is an additional source of gas. And above all, through the interconnector Bulgaria, Greece opens up an opportunity for access to two new sources of Caspian gas via TANAP when it is built, 2020 probably, as probably shorter-term compressed gas from the LNG terminal to be built in Alexandroupolis. Plus, like I said, if the Russian side is interested in laying another tube in the Black Sea as part of the hub. This process cannot be regulated by the other party's interest. All initial studies show that such a project, both as a facility and as a trading platform, is extremely promising. As gas consumption in Europe grows, there are certain needs for additional quantities, of course, at a good price in both possible routes: one, let's call it, pó the north, close to the old route of There's also a little bit of pó south that goes to Italy. Relying not only on consumption in Italy itself, given that there are volumes of more than 20 billion free of charge between southern and northern Italy, which gives a chance to transport gas to similar destinations in the first direction, but with a much lower price, to the extent that new infrastructure is not needed. We will have a detailed answer to all these questions once we have a document, such as physibilities, as part of the development are these questions. Initial studies, first of all, and, second of all, the reactions of large companies, because the meetings were two days ago, make me not to be optimistic, but to be confident not only that this project will be realized, but that it has commercial and economic potential. If you'll allow me to finish with this when we talk about big projects, especially in the field of energy, we should start thinking about them not in purely emotionally dressed political categories which project is better than the other, but we should start thinking about them. I graduated from Mathematical High School and I was taught to do math. In other words, each project of what costs it implies and what benefits it can bring and when the bill comes out right, it shows that it benefits the project to start.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Mr. Lilkov, you have an opportunity for a line. We gave Mr. Donchev a lot of time to develop the issue well enough. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u124	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. That's why it's my question. I'm a graduate of nuclear physics, and I'm a professor of nuclear physics, first of all, I think. I work at the University of Mine and Geology, I have information about the course of research in the Black Sea, I will not report it, and so I asked my questions purely technical and expert: is there a market model? Before the National Assembly or the Energy Commission, or whoever is taking a decision on this really important issue that I am dealing with very seriously, we need to have this market model that shows not only the sources but also the market interest and, accordingly, the profits for our country. Hopefully this will be in the best interests of Bulgaria as well. Since at the beginning you were talking about political consensus on this strategic project, I would ask you: do you intend to request the sanction of the National Assembly because, as you said, the development of this project and its implementation will be a matter of several successive governments? If we take this issue seriously and move forward, we should be aware of the market model before the National Assembly makes such a decision, as well as of other technical issues that you are clearly making clear at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u125	Thanks for the line, Professor. Lilkov. Here you are, dear Mr. Donchev, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u126	Dear Mr. Lilkov, with cooperation and funding from the European Commission this autumn will continue all necessary, including technical, research related to the project. As I commented a moment ago, I hope that they run as quickly as possible, so that we can not only supply all interested including technical information, but at some point when the project has detailed contours, we can get acquainted with its final form of the National Assembly, seek its sanction. So that's the answer to your question. Another addition. Besides a market model, we need to pursue more ambitious goals. I pay attention to how we work with regard to the interconnector with Greece. The project isn't that expensive. Its value is indicative, of the order of 250 million. It can theoretically be built with full public funding. However, we make every effort, together with the partners, to make the project market, to conform to the logic of all those who want to consume or transit gas through this facility. Therefore, in addition to the market model, the so-called "market test' is carried out in two phases. The binding phase is underway. The non-binding gave very good results. I hope the binding phase of the test gives the same. This must be the approach to any such project, because only the real market signals can respond to whether the project is profitable, whether it is profitable or not. Otherwise, in the case of public funding, as has happened before, we can spend any facility that has no guarantee that it will bring us benefits. Besides a market model, we need a market test.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. There is a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. Mr. Bayraktarov, please come to the stands. You have the floor to develop your question within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies Deputy Prime Minister, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, fellow MPs! My question will be to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. He's having a hard time answering questions today.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u129	For Hub?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u130	I will not ask about the hub, because the hub will be a reality, in the case of the most optimistic forecasts, after 15 years, but there are other, more serious issues which are very important for the Bulgarian society and from the point of view of the economic policy which the Bulgarian government develops. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, from this point of view, I would still like to remind you that in 2015 the Council of Ministers decided to declare the poverty threshold in the Republic of Bulgaria. At the same time, however, nearly 700 thousand. Bulgarian pensioners continue to live with the modest, huge and difficult to spend pension of 160 BGN, and the three-year forecast to increase this pension will put our Bulgarian mothers and fathers in an even more difficult position to spend this money, as it is envisaged an increase of the order of 11 BGN 12 in three years. However, there is an elementary economic logic that shows that the more money we put into circulation and consumption, the higher the growth of economic development will be. At the same time, we are talking about some billions because the hub is now set at 3 billion, but in 15 years it will probably be 15 billion. An example of the South Stream that you were talking about. He started at 600 million. EUR and ended in spent 2 billion. 200 million. Euros. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. I apologize for the extension, but a lot of people are running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u131	Here's your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u132	My question to you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is: does the Bulgarian government not consider that it is high time, after 25 years of total genocide to the Bulgarian pensioner, to approach pό responsibly and the minimum pension to finally be 300 leva, which is the poverty threshold in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov, for the specific question. [[Radio, lines.]] Dear Mr. Donchev, please come in for an answer. There is an excitement in this House, and they look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u134	It is only right that all pensions, not only the minimum one, should grow in view of the undisputed needs of the Bulgarian pensioners. In addition, in order to be correct, not that we are fully political, but it is economically appropriate to be, within what the pension system can afford, because I will remind that the Bulgarian pension system may not be responsible for most of those who are in this room, it is self-serving. Half! The rest of the pension system's maintenance comes from the budget, which is one of the most significant costs. Yes, without comment, without dispute any possibility should be used for such a socially vulnerable group, such as the Bulgarian pensioners, and should be done more by updating the pensions according to the Swiss rule, whether by means of fixed supplements for people with low pensions, as has become tradition at Christmas and New Year, but with the agreement that this should be within the limits of the economy itself. The best option would be to be within the scope of the pension system itself, which is currently impossible. The pension reform, when it was done, worked in the years ahead, I hope that will happen. Until then, it will hang, more or less, on the budget and any additional revenue, in no case at the expense of credit, should be used in this direction. I'll take the liberty of spending another half a minute. Yes, the fact is that when you put more money into circulation, including as social payments, it generates consumption. The consumption in some of the cases, as example in 2016, generated growth as much as motor growth for 2016, namely domestic consumption... However, it is not a sustainable model to generate consumption on the basis of public expenditure. That's not an argument. We accept your call, but this cannot be accepted as an economic argument. The big argument must be the acute social need of Bulgarian pensioners. Not macroeconomic logic, because it's controversial.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Mr. Bayraktarov, would you like a line? Yes, you do. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I am still pleased that you did not go into the tone of some of your fellow parties, who are comfortable when it comes to raising a minimum pension, to approach that this is a populistic issue. That's not true. It hasn't been that long! Moreover, the Bulgarian pension system does not stand a chance in this version, whenever it starts to support itself, unless the actual employees of estimates become at least six million people who will contribute pension insurance to high social security benefits. But the Bulgarian social system is still subject to three pillars, which you neglected to say, and the main pillar, the first pillar is subject to one basic rule and it is the rule of solidarity. That is to say, everyone who is asked this question is conveniently missed here to explain that, after all, the Bulgarian pensioner, to date when he imported his insurance, had a very different value both as a purchase value and as a form of the burden of the currency itself. So it is untenable today that we are constantly looking for economic and political, and any logic, and at the same time over 700 thousand Bulgarian pensioners, without any guilt, live twice below the poverty line. This is irresponsible state-of-the-art behavior! After all, without any economic logic, the state has been throwing billions of euros into infrastructure projects for years, which, as has been understood by the questions of the previous ones, even on the hub, no one can explain the benefit of Bulgaria. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you. I hope you understand me correctly, because it is high time for the state to address the Bulgarian pensioners a 1.6% increase, you know that this is an infinitely funny number. What's more, we've been procrastinating for years and the date for... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. ... Unfreeze the ceiling of pensions, which should have happened as early as 2011, and now we are 2016 and the date has been postponed to 2018. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Chairman, it's very nice of you to press this button, but now I want a procedure before I'm...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u137	Please...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u138	Procedure in the manner of conduct that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u139	First, get off the stands...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u140	Yeah, I'll get out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u141	...so we can end this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u142	Several times and answering and asking questions exceeded the time by a minute and a half, two times you did not once press this bell, and when it comes to the Bulgarian pensioner, if there is how to say nothing. [[Noise and lines.]] This tendential behavior doesn't suit you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u143	Mr. Bayraktarov, please, I'll give you an opportunity for a procedure, even though I understand what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u144	You won't give it to me. The rules will give it to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u145	Previously on The Duplicate, Dear Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u146	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, in my quest to be brief about the topic of Bulgarian pensioners, for the entire pension system we will not exhaust it in the framework of this conversation. At least the two of us. This is a much longer conversation on the one hand, the undisputed social need on the other side, the economic realities, the opportunities to give bigger pensions, and the conversation will definitely continue. I mean, that's not what I'm saying. It is not quite right to oppose a social expenditure, it was he from the budget, such as the cost of pensions with infrastructure costs. In general, monophase investments, those only in the social sphere or only in infrastructure, never have an effect, we have to think about both, and the other and, of course, look for a good balance. One necessary clarification, given the fact that you commented on the energy sector. Several times, including today, I said that new energy projects should be thought of as market with all the guarantees that they will bring back revenue. And one more thing. No one has said, even world practice is rather different, that large energy projects should be subject to investment only and solely of the state. On the contrary, a project, if there is economic logic in it, if it is vital, if it will bring benefits, there will be investors who will want to put money into it, relying on profit in the future. The approach we are trying to impose, which is difficult given the level of political emotions in many of the cases, is precisely the kind of approach we are looking for when we talk about energy infrastructure, to seek precisely market logic, to ensure that money is invested in a good way when the private investor who wants to put money in, and absolutely reasonable in terms of public investment, if the state is particularly the only investor, this is often suspicious.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Mr. Bayraktarov, do you want the floor? Here's a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because before I ask a question four representatives of four political formations have asked questions. Each one of them violated the procedure and the rule in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u149	Are you sure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u150	I'm sure of it. I can even tell you every single group, as well as the responsible, especially Mr. Donchev, how much time they have increased without being made a single remark. It's okay. The questions were important.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u151	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u152	That's why we didn't react. But if you think that the issue concerning the Bulgarian pensioner is not important, this speaks very badly of you. Very bad! But there is already a trendy attitude here, because whenever a representative of the Patriotic Front is speaking and you are presiding, you always either interrupt or press the button, or you demonstrate a trendy behavior that does not honor you. Again, we have had a proper dialogue with Mr. Tomislav Donchev on an extremely important topic, because he well understands that the issue is important, but there are still economic projects that are undoubtedly important for the development of Bulgaria, will take place in future times, and the Bulgarian pensioner for 26 years, 27 years, has been placed today and is now able to survive. That's why it wasn't right to press my bell all the time, as if something would happen in 10 seconds and fail the National Assembly. I hope you understand me and definitely try not to show your tendency from here on out, and I repeat, you are not honored.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u153	Mr. Bayraktarov, from the moment I held the meetings and the mechanism of replica and doppelganger, I have absolutely sought the time to be respected, and I have always done so. That you have a subjective sense of addiction, I take it as your understanding, and I hope you will deal with it, but I have always respected the rules and the time as it should be. Mr. Georg Georgiev in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is quite unknown that as the election campaign approaches, the passions in the Chamber will also increase, but I think that the platform of the National Assembly should be the last place to be held hostage of such passions. Of course, the temptation to abuse populistic topics is not surprising and not new, but I think that we should be able to control ourselves at such times, especially when we comment on important issues for the state. We have shown quite clearly and consistently that it is GERB and the government of GERB...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u155	What's the charge with me, Mr. Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u156	...are the ones who quite, quite in good faith had a policy in the social sphere. And with regard to the procedure for you, I will get to that point, I think that you should observe how the MPs behave, including in the Chamber, because there are colleagues who allow themselves to do anything when they come down from this tribune, and also observe whether the blitzcontrol procedure is followed, within which specific questions could not be asked. I think that was broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u157	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. I'm watching and I'm going to keep watching. There is a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center - National Union. Mr. Petrov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to the Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova. It's banal, but, unfortunately, it's been up to date for many years. I guess you get that a lot. What are the intentions of the management of the Ministry of Interior regarding the state security of some of the small Bulgarian municipalities? I'm not talking about an increased police presence during specialized operations, namely state police security. It is that there are municipalities in which a police officer and an inspector are responsible for practically too many settlements. There are such municipalities where they are over 10. We are interested: what are the general intentions of the Ministry of Interior to overcome this big problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u159	Thank you, Mr. Petrov, for the correct question on the common policy. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in, you have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u160	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, this is one of the serious problems in the Ministry of Interior In the last two months, the Ministry of Interior has been working on a model that can determine the state number of individual structures. We are at the final of the development and implementation of this model. His discussion with territorial structures is forthcoming and the determination of state numbers. This is one of the measures we are working on. The other is to see how we can with greater mobility ensure the coverage of these regions. The third direction in which we are working on how to implement the technical means to help this activity and, for example, increase the territory on which it is patrolled, the number of patrols, the scope to be achieved by individual employees. I hope that there will soon be a concrete result which I will present to the Members of the National Assembly. As far as personnel security is concerned, it is also linked to the education system. We are also working on this line, I have also assigned to think about a programme that, within the next three years, will compensate for the shortage of personnel in the Ministry of Interior system. You all know some of you much better, how long it takes to train a frame in the Ministry of Interior, how many steps you need to go. We have eased competition procedures so that they can be carried out as quickly as possible, and I hope that we will really soon have an accurate plan and a slightly longer perspective, so that what we need as numbers and equipment can also be secured in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u161	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. A line? I won't. Let's move on to the next question. He will be from the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Attack. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues! We are all aware of the long exhausting sanctions by the European Union towards the Russian Federation, of which Bulgaria suffers huge losses. In order not to accuse me, Deputy Prime Minister, that I speculate on the figures, I will quote your Minister of Agriculture Mrs. Desislava Taneva, who on June 26th 2016 says Bulgaria has lost 400 million so far. lv. from sanctions against Russia, and it's only about the food industry. From another point of view, the President of the Bulgarian Hotel and Restaurant Association predicted losses for tourism of around 500 million. Euros. And we're only talking about two sectors. Of course, we at the attack have repeatedly proposed that these sanctions against Russia fall. We have tabled similar and legislative changes that have been rejected by this House, unfortunately. But today, honourable Members, we see on the Bulgarian media the foreign minister of Bulgaria Mitov, who says, I quote it literally: "Bulgaria will not support the raising of European sanctions against Russia." My fellow Members, when I make this statement, this is not about any moods or russophilia or russophobia, this is about the Bulgarian national interest. And the Bulgarian national interest is related to the Bulgarian business, the Bulgarian state to profit from a normal relationship with Russia. In this regard, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, I do not know which one of you would like to speak, perhaps Mr Donchev, but please answer me: is Minister Mitov's official position of the government and on what basis did the government take this decision Bulgaria not to support lifting sanctions against the Russian Federation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u163	And thank you, dear Mr. Todorov. Deputy Prime Minister Donchev will answer the question. Here you are, dear Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u164	The Foreign Ministry isn't in my jurisdiction, but when I've dragged a leg today, I'll keep answering. You are well aware that in another parliamentary procedure, it is very difficult for me to comment on a fellow Member's speech, and I have not heard the speech yet. Whether this is a line taken out of the context, whether it is a clear statement with the claim that it is a government position, I cannot tell you at the moment. I haven't even had a chance to hear from my colleague Mitov, at least from his mouth to find out what he meant. I do not recall a decision in the proper authorities, understand the Council of Ministers, Council on European Affairs, which has taken any such decision. It is quite possible that it is an answer to a journalist's question, or anything else. Don't put me in the role of interpretation of the Foreign Minister's words, which I'm not. On the subject of sanctions, commented more than once, and whether they bring economic damage to Bulgaria. Absolutely. I don't know who would want to say the opposite about both agriculture and other sectors of the economy. After all, the reason for the sanctions is purely the political situation. This secondary pressures and complicates relations between the European Union and Russia, which, in a situation of regional uncertainty, do not bring further benefits. In order to be correct as to suffer and complain with you both in Parliament about the negative effect of sanctions, even if Parliament consolidated such a decision, they will not fall this way. As I commented a moment ago, this is a common European solution. If efforts are needed in this direction, they are far from in this room and far from being exhausted to what the Bulgarian government would do. Political dialogue and a political environment are needed to allow at European level a subject to become seriously on the agenda. Is that supposed to happen? I believe that first, economically and politically, it is appropriate to work towards better relations with Russia. I'm not just talking about Bulgaria. I am talking about the entire European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. The line, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues! Mr. Donchev, I listened to you carefully, but ultimately the statement of Foreign Minister Mitov is a fact. Yes, Bulgaria is part of the European Union, yes, Bulgaria is part of NATO. However, the same applies to a number of other countries that have already repeatedly expressed their opinion and attitude about sanctions against the Russian Federation, which admit that they are losing. I'll give you just a few examples. Slovakia's Prime Minister Robert Fitzu has called for sanctions against Russia to be lifted. This is from February 2016. I have not heard anything like this from the Bulgarian Prime Minister in the European Union. I also quote the French Economy Minister Emmanuel Marhon, who says: "Sanctions against Russia must be brought down in the summer. I didn't hear that from Minister Lukarski. The Austrian Foreign Minister proposed a scheme to remove Russian sanctions from June 20, 2016, just two months ago. Sebastian Kurtz calls for action to be taken to remove sanctions against Russia. I didn't hear that from Mitov. And as a finale with which to graduate, the Austrian President wants to remove sanctions against Russia. That's what Heinz is saying, President of Austria. Do not go into controversy about what the Bulgarian President says so as not to make the House laugh. I personally hope that the government will finally learn from the mistakes it has made during this period of sanctions and huge losses for the Bulgarian business, even if you want to take a sharp position for the citizens, including in the European Union, that Bulgaria is losing a great deal of this and these sanctions must be removed. I hope that the pair aired by "Attack", NFSB and VMRO for President and Vice President will take a peak in order to change things if you do not take steps in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u167	Thank you, Mr. Todorov, for the line. The opening is Deputy Prime Minister Donchev. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u168	Dear Mr. Todorov, whoever is elected president, cannot remove the sanctions. This one first. Secondly, I do not dispute what you say as quotes of different speeches, but it is appropriate to distinguish between who is speaking. Because the occasion was a speech by Minister Mitov, I think of at least one or two European leaders, ministers or prime ministers who have made similar messages. Only when the decision is made, I don't know if there is one country that has voted against. A bad practice is observed when voting on something, including a council, the position to be one, and putting it on with words and arguments to be different, which we should pay attention to by commenting on European politics, which is not good. The speeches must be covered by speeches and all other methods of expressing political will.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u169	Thanks for the tunic, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. There is a question from the ABB Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies Deputy Prime Minister and Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is to Mrs. Bachvarova and is provoked by Hungary's proposal a few days ago to assist Serbia in security at the Serbian-Bulgarian border. This proposal is not new, as Hungary has so far been supporting security at the border of Macedonia and Greece, helping Serbia, making a second round fence walls at its own border. Rather, this somehow does not relate to the official statements of the Turkish country, which firmly states that it respects the Agreement with the European Union and does not allow migrants in the European Union; secondly, to the Prime Minister's statement, which said that every year our services prevent about 100,000 migrants from entering Bulgaria, and thirdly, with the actions of the Ministry of Interior and other authorities that respect legal situations and do not allow migration to the West. In this sense, it is not clear from whom Hungary will protect Serbia, since we are dealing with this migratory flow. Is it not more logical for them to direct their efforts and their help to guard the external borders of the European Union and not the border of Bulgaria and Serbia?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u171	Please ask the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u172	Is this relevant to the Visegrad Four's proposal in February when our prime minister visited there and our silent refusal of their assistance with regard to migrants?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, you have an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u174	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kuchukov, the Hungarian side's decision is not right for me to comment. This is their arrangement with the Serbian side. They felt that they could help Serbia to stop the so-called secondary movements of migrants. The proposal, which was made to Bulgaria, was for assistance and construction of facilities along the Bulgarian-Greek border, which we rejected in principle. To this day, we believe that such a facility is not necessary, moreover, that there is no case in which we have established an illegal passage from a Greek country and that the Greek authorities have not taken back the offenders that we have captured. Even when we have signals that they're still on their side, they stop them. As for the secondary movements of migrants, I would like to make a clarification, as I find that many people are not sufficiently clear. That's understandable. Not everyone's on the subject right now. With regard to dealing with the migrant wave or the migrant crisis, as it is called in Europe, there are several levels of action. The first is guaranteeing security at the external borders through checks and protection, because that's where illegals go. Attempts to cross these borders are illegal. We have a legal procedure, but migrants who do not want to stay in the first, external countries prefer to go illegally. All efforts are currently aimed at ensuring the security of the external border. So far, there is no country in the European Union that has said that we are not dealing with this. The second element when legal procedures pass and receive refugee status, migrants, and these are about 98% of those who enter our territory, have the same rights as Bulgarian citizens, except to vote. That is, they have the right to move in the European Union and to leave our country. Moreover, while they have filed for status, they are entitled to go to external addresses and we cannot limit their movement in any way. Some of them are also trying to get out illegally. Those we catch and do not allow them to cross the Serbian border, somewhere 70 or 80% of them are already registered in Bulgaria. Most of them, more than half make up to 10 attempts to pass. They have a direction of movement and they go through there. I spoke to my Serbian colleague. He assured me that the flow across Bulgaria was not as great as it was announced a few months ago. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I suppose, on the basis of a bilateral agreement, the Hungarian side has decided to support its Serbian colleagues. I have a lot more to explain on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u175	The line, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u176	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! As far as the media could judge the Visegrad Four's proposal, they were far more comprehensive, they included questions about both quotas and financial assistance and the fence with Greece, and about joint aid with living power. Yes, I agree that with Greece it is illogical to build a fence. But the fact that we silently refused the other help, I can't find a reason. Secondly, you said: who received refugee status. Based on what do they receive refugee status, since the UN Convention on Refugees is infinitely clear who is a refugee and who is not? Isn't there some contradiction to giving refugee status to what's official as a document?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u177	A hole, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u178	Dear Mr. Kuchukov, there is no case in which there is a hesitation or irregularity in the granting of refugee status. Control is extremely strict. Those who are not entitled to receive one, and they are a very small part of those who enter our territory, are denied and are acted upon in the defined order of procedure. Ninety-something percent of all who enter have reason to obtain such status. There is a procedure in which their right is established. However, there is something else about most of them, after registering in Bulgaria, they refuse to wait for the status. This is also a factor that shows how significant the secondary movements are and what the direction of movement of migrants is. As for Hungarian aid, we have discussed the fence. I told you what the decision was. For any other aid, we have submitted a list to the European countries to assess what they can provide us and the main part of the aid comes from Frontex. We expect very soon about 100 new officers from them to come along with technical equipment. As far as quotas are concerned, this is a topic of exchange of opinion, but this is a European solution, so we have nothing to accept or refuse on this issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. A question will be asked by Mr. Velizar Enchev who is not members of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u180	Madam President, honourable Members! My question is to Mr. Donchev. I'm going to start with the question, and then I'm going to argue that question. Mr. Donchev, don't you think that the meeting in Varna three days ago for the so-called "Balkan Hub" is a complete failure of the entire energy policy of this government, as well as of your first government, which took office in 2009? Because, now the argument to this question: three days ago in Varna we saw, firstly, that the main actor, when it comes to gas supplies, is not present at the meeting with his representative. The second failure is the statement hours before the meeting in Varna of the chief of the project "Gszprom" Miller that no realization of the project is planned at all. The third proof of this failure is the statement of Prime Minister Borisov that he will impose veto, probably referring to the behaviour of the Hellenic Republic if Bulgaria is surrounded by the corridor "Turkish Stream." On this occasion I also refer to your statement to the Bulgarian National Television, in which you stated that in this situation there are several sources of gas for our country, and these are the following: A first option, you said, Russian gas through a new pipeline or through the existing Balkan pipeline from Russia and Romania. However, I immediately replicate you: in 2019 the contract between Gazprom and Ukraine for the delivery, for transit of Russian gas through Ukraine, which means that in just two years and three months this channel closes. Secondly, you point out as a possible source of gas for Bulgaria Caspian region. You best know that this is a hypothesis in a very distant future, and we are talking about the current situation. Thirdly, you point to the possibility of liquefied gas from terminals in Greece and Turkey. Very well all you people know, even those who are dilettantes, that volumes of liquefied gas containers are at times, tens of times less than the volumes that are delivered on pipes. As for the last source of gas that you point out, your own extraction, I immediately make the statement that the site or, more precisely, the plot of land of Han Asparuh is all that is being spoken of is entirely indefinitely in the future. I look forward to your competent and expert response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u181	Mr. Donchev, you have the opportunity to answer the question asked by Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u182	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, I was just worried that 10 minutes ago no one asked me about the gas hub and the events from two days ago in Varna. I rarely give evaluations of events that I've organized. In this sense, due to my typical modesty, I will not say whether it is a success or a failure the event we had in Varna just two days ago. However, given that a strong position has been expressed by our main partner for the construction of this facility, I would not call it a failure at all. Directly on your question, quoting yourself, which is not good and giving me the confidence of a living classic. [[Radio.]] The gas hub is also possible without additional amounts of Russian gas, but it would be less cost-effective. If the Russian side is concerned with the gas supply, or another company, please pay attention to this reply, it has decided to participate in the gas supply facility, that is good. If he doesn't decide, eventually it's in the discretion of their responsibilities and I can't make a decision for them. With regard to many comments lately, it is difficult for me to assess for one simple reason. It is not clear at the moment because there is a conversation about a pipe at the moment, whether it is primarily a project to supply Turkey with additional quantities of gas, or a project that is oriented towards exports to other European destinations. Because Turkey as a non-Member State there are some conditions, in any Member State, in which it was Greece, or Bulgaria there are others, which changes a lot of things. Just the fact that Istanbul's consumption is at least 15 billion, that is to say, this could be the full capacity of a pipe, a definite answer to the question is very difficult to give. On the occasion of the Prime Minister's comment, it is not my job to interpret his words, what he said, given our traumatic experience with South Stream, that we have the right, and what is more, we have an obligation to monitor whether European legislation, including the third liberalisation package, is respected equally in all Member States. I think we have every reason to be particularly careful on this subject, even when it comes to a neighbouring country like Greece.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u183	Line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u184	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Donchev, you said that the European Commission is a major partner. Yeah, she's a major partner, but she's not a major supplier. She's not a gas supplier at all. The main gas supplier is the Russian Federation. You just said we had traumatic South Stream experience. Mr. Donchev, this traumatic experience and this trauma we brought ourselves, namely your government. This government of yours last year and last year in the face of Prime Minister Borisov, Mrs. Bachvarova said twice that GERB is responsible and that you boasted about the suspension of three energy projects - South Stream, Belene and Burgas - Alexandroupolis. Therefore, you brought this injury upon yourself. And most importantly, Mr. Donchev, I want to tell you. In the current situation, your government has missed the tame and is chasing the wild. What do I mean? Seven months the relations between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey were interrupted, there was a rift in the relations between Ankara and Moscow. And instead of these seven months of insistence on this tribune, I have said it several times, to use this unique geopolitical situation and to restart South Stream, you have been waiting for Brussels to allow you. In these seven months Bulgaria could restart South Stream, the Bulgarian route along the bottom of the Black Sea and now no one would talk about the Turkish Stream. No one assumed that relations between Russia and Turkey would normalise so quickly. You missed this opportunity because you were waiting for the European Commission's permission. And the fact that Jean-Claude Juncker assured Mr. Borisov that he would have a gas hub, that doesn't mean anything. Mr Juncker does not deliver the gas nor can he get this from Gazprom, who already has a strong position. The failure of your government's energy policy is therefore final, unfortunately. And the veto you intend to impose on the behaviour of the Hellenic Republic is, I think, a lot in the air, as it is not clear what you will veto on? A specific act must be vetoed, and there is already a solution to reach the gas pipeline at the Turkish-Greek border. The behaviour of the Hellenic Republic depends, of course, on many, and you are entitled to insist on the Hellenic Republic, but this must be decided on a bilateral basis, on the relations between Athens and Sofia, and not to seek the mediation of Brussels. This mediation has only done us harm so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u185	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u186	Dear Mr. Enchev, when we talk about natural gas it is right to talk about gas and not gas. The gas is the combustion gas. For natural gas, it is appropriate to use the gas. A few exceptions with an absolutely calm tone. No one has sought the European Commission as an intermediary. We don't need an intermediary to talk to anyone. However, when it comes to a project that is not entirely Bulgarian, because the consumption of Bulgaria is 3 billion, which is supposed to supply gas other countries, cooperation with the European institution is of paramount importance here. And unlike other times, I believe that the approach this time was extremely intelligent to work in advance together, which, including for all investors here, does not in any way exclude the Russian side, provides the necessary guarantees that what is to be done tomorrow will not be wrong or impossible. That's the difference. When we talk about sustainability of a solution, a solution developed together with the Commission is the most sustainable, because tomorrow someone will not think of it, whether it be the Bulgarian government or any European official to change it. It is simply done together in advance with all European legislation. Russia is one of the main natural gas sources in Europe of 48%. She's not the only one. But that's not the point. I don't have any prejudice regarding gas, I mean with respect to origin. What Bulgaria should look at, without emotion, is not the origin of the gas, but its security and its price. His safety and his price! That's exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u187	Moving on to the second round of questions. The GERB group has the floor. Mrs. Dukova will ask her question on behalf of the parliamentary group, the second to which the group is entitled.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u188	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! I am not discouraged by the fact that in the pre-election situation we are entering, you will receive, gentlemen, deputy prime ministers, more and more questions concerning certain target groups targeted, which I hope you will respond to, as you do, appropriately. My question is neither prosaic nor political and specific about the sector policy "Education" and is addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, for us begins an emblematic year for Bulgarian education because this year will be preceded and will create a large-scale work to prepare the education system for the new philosophy and the serious reform of Bulgarian education, which has not been done since 1991. Sectoral policy "Education" is defined as a national priority for the first time. This means deciphering and setting a direction defining the future of Bulgarian education according to European standards with a new philosophy, a new center, a new moderator of the learning process. We are on the eve of the opening of the new school year 2016 - 2017, which, as I said, will encode the beginning of this process, which will start an application for the implementation of its policies. Or, plainly speaking, whatever you sow, you will reap. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this algorithm we will trace the field to reform. My specific question to you is: is the secondary education system ready for the beginning? Your analysis of implementation plan- reception, ready textbooks for first and fifth grade, ready sub-normal documents, in particular 19 educational standards? You have taken a particular responsibility to the Committee on Education that this process will be correct, there will be readiness. In this sense, are methodical instructions implemented to the system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u189	For an answer Mrs. Kuneva. Honourable Members, we are now starting with the second round of questions. The hour is going to 13.40, and according to art. No. 104, para. One in the last two hours, the blitzcontrol is being carried out. My request is: short questions and short answers so that all parliamentary groups can have the opportunity, if they wish, to use their right to two questions. We're listening, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Dukova! In this school year we will have to do many things we will say for the first time. That's nice. Besides, we don't set foot in unfamiliar territory. We know that many things that were started, but were started at small paces, still gave direction and starting point. I will mention issues related to municipal schools and the decentralisation of the system, with budgets that are one of the topics that has always excited us, of course, in education, private schools and so on. I will say again in this House because you are asking me about sectoral policy, although I will have from 3:00 p.m. blitzcontrol in your Commission that there is no opposition to education and there cannot be. This should be priority number one, and for at least two decades ahead, which goes through a good law, its good application, monitoring its application and through good financial budget support. Since the so-called educational standards are one of the things in which we had a clear need to catch up on the delay, I am pleased to tell you that we have succeeded. We will only postpone the so-called state education standards for when the budget is being made, because they start with the new financial year and not with the new school year. Currently there are 11 state educational standards established, two more are being discussed today, and we are ready to end with the announcement of all the other The single state educational standard for inclusive education is already in coordination. You know he's being accepted by the Council of Ministers. The short answer to your question is: yes, we succeeded, with a lot of pressure, but we were able to prepare the beginning of the school year. On the subject of the textbooks, I said early enough in February this year that we would be with the letter that now exists. Why? Because during the delay in the textbooks for the first and fifth grade, where the new program enters, there was no way, including problems with appeal the Minister's decision before the Supreme Administrative Court. There was no way and there was no way that the letter... this so complex book could be prepared for the beginning of this school year. But with the fifth grade book, it'll be fine. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva, again 30 seconds on top. We're listening, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u192	The subject is important.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u193	All the topics are important. Before that: Will BSP have a second question? Yeah. I can't see from the DPS. From the reformers, yes. From the Patriotic Front, yes. From the BDC, no. They're gone. No, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u194	Madam President, thank you very much, but education is a subject that should not be beaten, rudely speaking. In this sense, I think that in addition to what we have heard in the Commission, all MPs should also hear it, because speculation about education and the opening of the new school year can model facts that are not face-to-face, especially in this area and on this subject. Thank you. We will indeed get more detailed answers in the Commission as well. It is very important for me that the Ministry generate this educational expertise, which will really lead to a successful start to the new scientific year. I wish that in the next standards, which will be developed and established, and they are not little by 19, the groups involved in their preparation will be from all fields of education, including from NGOs, including children and students, including from the sector, a partner in the system, in order to be well done. Since I will have no other time until the end, I wish you a successful year! I also wish you health so that we can make use of it together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u195	A hole, Mrs. Kuneva? Thank you. On behalf of BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Dubov will ask the second question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u196	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! My question is to Mrs. Bachvarova. In recent months there has been a visible increase in migration pressure in Bulgaria. My question is the government's policy on the security of the state border by illegally crossing foreign citizens. The number of migrants detained at the border with Turkey and Greece is significantly smaller than those who have been illegally infiltrated, which raises the question of the effectiveness of its security. By September 1st, 3,600 were detained and at gate 7,200. Another 4,000 people were detained inside the country, making nearly 16,000 in eight months. However, the mere omission and capture of the border is extremely small. The construction of the fence with Turkey is slow and the number of individuals who guard the police and army border is insufficient. Even worse, the border with Greece is guarded, where attempts to cross into Bulgaria have increased. The other problem is the state and order in the refugee centers. Nearly 98% of those admitted to the refugee centers have left them voluntarily. By 1 August 2016, 9000 were admitted to the refugee centers and 8400 people were voluntarily left. These migrants do what they think is best: some form colonies in large cities, mostly in Sofia, others take to the Serbian border, others go around the country and live where they find it well. Once again: my question is about the overall policy of government regarding refugees in Bulgaria: what is being undertaken to curb the illegal penetration of foreigners and the subsequent control of their residence and movement across the country?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u197	I hope it is possible to answer these questions within three minutes. We're listening, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u198	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dubov, it really is a very common issue. I can answer you briefly: all available State resources are used to guard the state border; all possible approaches are used to control the processes and reduce illegal migration. The figures you pointed out for those who left are correct, yes, but that is their right. You may not have been in the room a moment ago, but I said: anyone who is registered and submitted documents to obtain status has the right to move. We don't have a legal option to limit them. I have specifically checked this issue, and my colleagues and I have discussed it, and that is why we have now tabled a legislative proposal if the MPs accept it so that we can set a perimeter of movement from the border. I would be grateful to everyone who supports this proposal so that we can limit their presence. Wherever there's a cluster of migrants outside the centers, we use gendarmes, more patrols, checks. You quoted a number for those detained at the exit at the Serbian border. Again: this is a number for holding people, much of which up to ten times try to cross this border. We also use resources. We've requested help from Frontex. We have requested additional funding along the line of emergency measures. We are also making very active diplomatic efforts to be able to resolve the issue of readmission with Turkey. I think we're making good progress there. This is a conversation which I have been having for the last month and a half, personally with the previous minister and his deputy, and now with the team from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to make such control. There's an army stationed at the border, there's border guards. When necessary, we make a different arrangement of forces, which I would not like to disclose here so that we can carry out in two, even at the third level, control of illegal migration. At the moment and in the analysis of Frontex fence facility gives its effect. Their graphics show that attempts at illegal passage are mainly in this part, which is not yet built around Malko Tarnovo. That's where the main pressure is right now. I hope very soon that it will be completed there, so let us also limit these attempts. There is no 100% guarantee of entry anywhere in the world where there is a fence facility.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u199	A hole, Mr. Dubov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u200	Madam Minister, I do not agree that everything is being done. You have suggested yourself that you have taken some action with a view to even legislating things. From what you've said, I have another comment on the matter. In the last year, we have seen a change in the national belongings of the illegally arriving migrants. Although the war continues in Syria, the number of Syrians who come to Bulgaria is decreasing this year they are 24%. The most of them are Iraqis, 35 and Afghans, 31. The big paradox is that at 1200 they entered, according to our statistics, and captured at the Afghan border 4200 were stopped at the Serbian border. Hence, many conclusions can be drawn about how the border is guarded and how many pass through it. As a great irony of fate, I could say that after our peacekeeping and peacekeeping operation in Afghanistan and Iraq, our country is filled with immigrants from these two countries. The legitimate question arises: if there is a war in Syria and the humane considerations prevail, for the other migrants entering Bulgaria, in Europe it is an economic presence, which raises the question: why do we even accept them in Bulgaria? The other major issue is the study of migrants and the quality of interviews with them. The terrorist acts carried out in Europe show that some of the terrorists were legally resident in Bulgaria. The attacks in Istanbul, in Germany, in France have a Bulgarian lead. It is a legitimate question: is there not, but how many more such trained terrorists are immigrants in Bulgaria? In closing, I would like to point out that, due to the Prime Minister's absence, I cannot ask questions about the talks in Turkey and Germany related to migration... [[the President signals that time has run out]] , as well as the prospects for readmission with migrants.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u201	A hole, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u202	Mr. Dubov, I strongly reject your claim that there is a Bulgarian lead in the attacks you pointed out. [[BSP LB.]] There may be people who have passed through Bulgaria, but that does not mean that there is a Bulgarian trace. [[BSP LB.]] The geographical location of our country is such that the main flows pass through us, so we have 100 per cent control at the entrance and exit. But there's one category we can't stop, hold and return. This is the bigger subject of protection than a terrorist threat. It is another very big topic and here I think it is not the right place to present all the measures that we are implementing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u203	There is a question on behalf of the Reformation Block.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, fellow Members! My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova. It relates to the collection of fines imposed in the event of an infringement on the road. You know very well that the months of June, July, August and September are the so-called hot months, when traffic increases and when road violations increase significantly, as a result of which, unfortunately, many have died. You remember the murdered family of tourists in July, last week was also a tragic accident. Apparently, the problems are in two directions. On the one hand, there is no need for the necessary number of sanctions. Yesterday, when a large number of Bulgarians were taken to the border, although there was movement in the emergency lanes, the police did not impose fines. The other problem is bigger and it is related to the collection of fines. Statistics show that below 50% is the collection of fines by Bulgarian citizens, and for foreigners is even more fragile for 2015 than 13 346 issued tickets to foreign citizens only 524 have been paid. That's well below 10%. The same applies to penal decrees 1100 issued penal decrees, 112 paid, which is still below 10%. Obviously, there is a problem and this problem leads to impunity, to uncontrolled driving of foreign citizens. They, approaching their border, most often Turks, passing through Bulgaria, knowing that they will not be fined, driving recklessly and causing these tragic incidents. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I therefore believe that serious steps are required. My question is this: is it envisaged that the Ministry of Interior system, and more precisely the electronic ticket system, should be joined by Border Police, so that when a person reaches the border, they are obliged to pay the fine from the camera photo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u205	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova. Excuse me, Mrs. Bachvarova, a procedure before that which Mr. Kirilov has to do in time until 2:00 p.m. I'm very sorry, just for a second.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u206	I have one word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u207	Thank you very much. Before the line, Mr. Kirilov's procedure. I hope we have enough Members present in this House to vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u208	Dear Madam President, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings on the bill adopted last Wednesday amending and supplementing the Commercial Law by three weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u209	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal that the period between first and second readings on first reading votes should be extended by another three weeks, or the maximum possible time for proposals. Vote 69 MPs: 65, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The line, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for your decisive answer. That is exactly how I think that violations should be fought along the way, especially when they are from foreigners who, unfortunately, kill Bulgarians. What I wanted to say is that we are going to make proposals for measures to improve the collection rate, I hope, good. I would be happy to discuss them with your ministry and you to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u211	A hole, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u212	Thank you for the proposal and for the fact that in the overall picture of problems you have realized where the main ones stand. We really need to review the legislation in order to make a single mechanism on which fines can be paid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u213	Thank you. It's the Patriot Front Group. Mr. Bogdanov will ask the second question. I'm counting on fellowship for the non-delayed time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u214	Madam President, of course, I will try to follow the rules. We've made progress in time anyway. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Mrs. Kuneva! Recently, the Ministry of Education and Science announced the state educational requirements for educational content in cultural and educational fields, public sciences and civil education. For those colleagues who are not involved in education, let me just remind them that these are the educational subjects entering this area................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is known to everyone that these particular disciplines, besides knowledge and skills, form in the students and attitude towards the homeland, towards the Bulgarian, they are a cause for national pride and national self-esteem. Expected experts from the Ministry of Education and Science have placed the emphasis on the universal rights and freedoms of self-determination, ethnic and religious tolerance, the right to use the mother tongue, the place of Bulgaria in Europe and the world, where there is nothing wrong, of course. To our great surprise, however, in the entire Annex No 4, which I quote at the moment, which is prepared by your office, Mrs. Kuneva, and extends to 67 pages, which have been uploaded to the Ministry's website, not once have the words "patriotism" mentioned, and "patriotism" mentioned. What do I mean? It would be easy to say that this is a lack of attitude in the officials of the Ministry towards the patriotic upbringing and education of our children, but if it were only our opinion, it would not be so important. More importantly, in our opinion, there is a sharp violation of the Preschool and School Education Act, and at a time when this Law is already in force. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It's clearly written there that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u215	Colleagues, the time for blitzcontrol is to ask questions to those involved, not where, what and how it is written. Ask the question, the minutes are up!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u216	Thanks for the reminder. I ask the question, which is specific: do you think that the Law on pre-school and school education and the Program of the Government has been violated in the part that affects the patriotic education and training of Bulgarian children?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u217	Thank you. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u218	Each of the state educational standards has been on the pages of the Ministry for several weeks to be able to get feedback on any questions people want to ask. I am also referring here to the specialized opinion and the broad civic opinion. In fact, let's make sure that we're on the same page with you, because lately I've heard that there's been an object that hasn't been from first to fourth grade, even someone has written a textbook about it, only there isn't one. Uploaded to the website for public discussion are the state educational standard for civil, health, environmental and intercultural education. This standard is set this way. It is written in the Law and, for example, intercultural education is not a whim of the Ministry or of the specialists there, but is thus set in the Law. The patriotic theme can be absolutely in any state educational standard, in programs such as your time, any extracurricular activities. I would say in any state educational standard in the proper preparation of teachers can be stressed, and we should stress what people are proud of, what teachers, students, parents are proud of.... is undoubtedly our national identity. As for this educational standard, let me tell you what it involves: there is a ritualization of school life. This is one of its main elements. In this ritualization, in fact, the raising of the Bulgarian flag, the anthem of the school, the uniform if, of course, the school, the uniform of the school connected with the homeland, with the traditions, are very important elements in the patriotic nature of this state educational standard. Student democratic practices. I am convinced that you can give many examples in which there are Bulgarian democratic practices, although the word democracy is not necessarily of Bulgarian origin, yet we can contribute and say what and how democracy has resisted over the years in our soul, in our culture, in our lifestyle. Hour of class also an exceptional opportunity in this direction. With regard to health and environmental education, can we not have a very strong element of patriotic education in environmental education? I think many of the students and teachers will see such an opportunity here. In civil education the active civic position, the introduction to our Constitution, the Bulgarian Constitution, the Bulgarian laws, how they are and how they develop the nation, develop the society [[the President signals that time has run out]] are all things in which, I assure you, each of us will see, from the Ministry, will see an opportunity to develop patriotic education. With your help, I hope to make it even brighter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u219	A line, Mr. Bogdanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u220	Dear Minister, my line is not linked to an election campaign, with upcoming various public-political processes. This is a long-term policy that the Patriotic Front has led since its very entry into the Forty-third National Assembly. You remember how much public discontent caused the new curriculums and programs at the end of the last and the beginning of the present years and what upheavals caused this in the Ministry of Education and Science. If we ask these questions, they are absolutely clear and are in your favor in this case, because the Bulgarian society, especially in the current situation, has a very sharp focus on the lack of patriotism in the Bulgarian textbooks. And whether or not they're publishing textbooks on a school subject that doesn't exist, that's not our problem, so it's still for the authors of this textbook. I would like to say once again that when you enter into your capacity as Minister of Education and Science, you have made commitments to meet these requirements which have been placed on the previous team of the Ministry, and the Patriotic Front will closely monitor this performance. I very much hope that these words, which you are now saying here from the National Assembly's stand, will not remain merely words, but be really translated into the new educational standards. Unfortunately, we don't see enough patriotism in what you're offering us at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u221	A hole, Mrs. Kuneva? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u222	I do not agree with what you say about not offering patriotism through Bulgarian education. In fact, the enlightenment itself is the highest form of patriotism, because the people do not fall where knowledge lives! Of course, building a perfect education system is a difficult task, but when, if not now and who, if we do not have to start building it? I would like to pay particular attention to you that at the class hour there is a separate standard of patriotic upbringing and building national self-esteem. I'll give you one more example: In protecting the population in case of disasters and accidents and first aid, maybe this does not sound direct with the words "patriotism" but helping your neighbor, helping your neighborhood, helping your city, helping your country, this is real patriotism for me. And let me say again: patriotism is where people are enlightened. Let's not forget our hymn! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u223	And the last question to today's parliamentary control is from the group of "Attack." Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u224	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Mrs. Bachvarova. According to an official report by the International Organisation for Migration, Greece is already the largest entry point for refugees in Europe. There's 76,000 registered there. According to Mr. Borisov himself, he said he expects problems at our border with Greece. My question is: does Borisov-2 cabinet intend to build a protective facility along the border with Greece? Hungary has already raised and started building a fence along its border with Romania, Greece has built an 11km wall along the border with Turkey, and our question is: does the government intend to build protection facilities along the border with Greece? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u225	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. We're listening to Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u226	I'll take the time. My answer is no. I've explained the answer to the previous questions. We have no reason to build a facility at the Greek border. This is an internal European border. In addition, there is not a single case, I will repeat for you that we doubt that the readmission agreement with Greece is working. Everyone who crosses the Bulgarian border from Greece is returned and accepted. And I don't know which report you're reading. Yesterday's data are for 59,000 people who are migrants in Greece. It's increased the last month by five grand. We're keeping a close eye on these numbers. Maybe you can, too. It's good for you to follow them, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u227	Line, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u228	I will just tell you that the border between Hungary and Romania is just as you say it is between Bulgaria and Greece. And that is obviously not a problem for Hungary. In addition, this may not be to you, it is rather to Mrs. Tsacheva we submitted a project for the construction of protective facilities along the state border with Greece half a year ago. This hasn't even entered the committees yet. However, we would be grateful if this would enter the hall and the people's representation would speak on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u229	Do you know what the border with Greece is?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u230	How much is it? And are you done with the border with Turkey, with the security facility? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u231	Each parliamentary group has the opportunity to propose a item on the agenda of the National Assembly every first Wednesday of the month. A hole, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u232	The decision to build partition facilities at internal European borders is of the country concerned, as well as the responsibility for the protection of the border remains within the national competence. That's what the Romanians decided. They did it. The border with Turkey is to be completed. Its length will be about 227 kilometers and costs are currently over 130 million. The border with Greece is 900 kilometers. We'll keep you posted for the next few months. It's working hard on a very broad front. Construction activities are currently being carried out at 57 kilometers away. But think about it: 220 to 900 and a few kilometers, what does that mean?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-07.u233	I thank the deputy prime ministers for their participation in today's blitz control. Tomorrow is a regular sitting. Start time "9:00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
