ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that we include two additional points in our Weekly Programme. As the first point for today, draft decision on changes in the management of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation. The urgent order of adoption of such a decision is required by the fact that with Mrs Karastoyanova leaving the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front and the already voted decisions on changes in the committees and the composition of the delegations is the vacancy for the head of the permanent delegation. They have a plenary session with the full composition of FACILITY next week, which requires that today we vote on a new leader. There's a proposal coming up. My second proposal is as a final point in our Weekly Programme for this week to include a second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Disasters. The second reading report was received at 5:20 p.m. on Tuesday. There, in a new way, coordination between local authorities and the regional administration is being arranged. This is related to the weather conditions and problems that the climate has created for us this season, which is why it is urgent that we also vote on this bill. Therefore, I suggest that you include the Project for a Decision as the first point for today, and the second reading of the Bill for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Disasters as the last point of our Weekly Programme. Please vote. 140 MPs voted: 131, none, abstention 9. The proposals have been accepted. With a letter in my letter. No 6540-02-62 of 15 June 2016 Mrs Cornelia Ninova, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, submitted: Project! DECISION on changes in the management of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Petar Georgiev Kanev as Head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation. Would you like to present the candidacy? Colleagues, Mr. Kanev is currently a member of this delegation. He is a member of the National Assembly. He's very familiar with the work of this assembly. The debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? I won't. We're closing the debate. Please vote. They voted 143 MPs: for 139, they won't mind, they abstentioned 4. The motion is accepted. Two messages. On 14 June 2016, a Report on the implementation of the plan for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018 for the period February 2016 - April 2016, adopted by decision No 470 of the Council of Ministers of 2016. By my letter the report was submitted to the Presidents and Co-chairs of the parliamentary groups and to the Standing Committees. The material is available to all of you in the Library of the National Assembly. On 15 June 2016 the National Statistical Institute received information about the indexes of consumer prices for May 2016. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the next point in the Weekly Program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC MANAGEMENT. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Mr. Ananiev, Chairman of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, will present the report for a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u2	Mrs. President, before the report, I would like a procedure for admission in the hall of Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u3	We are voting on this proposal. They voted 126 MPs: for 123, there are no abstentions 3. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u4	The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Electronic Governance. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u5	Are there any statements on the name of the Law and § 1? You have the floor, Mr. Gorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u6	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I take the floor on the title, but not to comment on the title, but not to take time in the rest of the text. Our parliamentary group will abstain from all the texts of this Law for a very simple reason, we have also alerted the Commission that there are clearly procedural violations in the way that all texts were adopted. The ministers, which practically have to give their opinion on whether they approve and whether they support the texts in the Law, have, for the most part, given a negative opinion on all the texts in the Law. At the same time, the importer is the Council of Ministers. A working group was formed between first and second readings, which is practically the importer between first and second readings. Following the comments we have made with colleagues in the Commission, I have seen that colleagues have begun to recognise the texts in the Law as their proposals. For us, this cannot be sustainable legislation. For this reason, we will abstain on all the texts in this Bill. So not by the title I have a proposal, but by the Bill, but so that we do not take time in each of the texts to explain why and what the procedural problems are, so at the beginning I express our opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u7	Thank you, Mr. Gorov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u8	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, as I am one of the people with the most tabled proposals for the changes between the readings, I will try not to take the floor too often, I would also like to say some general considerations and some things such as introduction. Then I'll try to annoy you as little as possible. For the past 10 years, the Bulgarian state has given to e-government an average of 200 million per year. That means we've spent over two billion in the last ten years. lv. for electronic control. You can turn it into highways, turn it into kilowatt hours, look left, but I do not recommend that you turn it into some other currency, type of health care or potential investment in education, because things are getting really tragic. We wouldn't have had to spend that money if we had something working. The fact is that until today for the most simple administrative services we continue to go to some dusty desks, which are usually between 2:00 and 16.00 for the most ordinary administrative services, which in the 21st century should be given to the Bulgarian society online. The good news today is that if we accept the texts as proposed by the committee responsible and approved there, we will put an end to New Year's stealing. We're about to do something really meaningful and in the best possible way. I do not agree with the previous one who said that there were some problems regarding legislation concerning this text. This is one of the most widely discussed, publicly discussed texts that we have ever, or at least in the recent past, adopted in the National Assembly. The most important thing is that we will finally have clarity who is responsible for what is happening and what is not happening in the electronic government in Bulgaria. We will set up a State Agency for Electronic Governance, whose chairman will clearly be responsible for what is happening. This is very important, this is a precedent in terms of e-government. We're going to centralize the efforts so that all the systems that have been playing piece by piece can finally start talking to each other. We're finally getting into the 21st century. We are so proud of our IT specialists, we are so happy that Bulgaria is one of the top outsourcing destinations not only in Europe, but also in the world, and the infrastructure of our electronic management is not even going on two billion later, it is literally not conceived yet. Here we have a historic chance to do what people have called us for, for what some of us have chosen, and in an indisputable and good way. The texts are very well crafted, well discussed. Indeed, if we accept them as we have planned them and, as approved by the Commission, we will do something that we can be proud of, and at some point, I hope that people will appreciate this effort when they start more and more electronically communicating with the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u9	Any lines to Mr. Trenchev? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the name of the bill and § 1 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 94, none, abstention 17. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u10	Paragraph 2 "Promotion by Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, the text of the importer and shall propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." A new para is being created. 2: As an internal electronic administrative service, another exchange of electronic documents providing information between administrative authorities, public functions persons and public service providers shall be carried out. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it the words... In the absence of a technological possibility of automatic submission and... are deleted. 3. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. The primary data controller shall not set any additional requirements or provide for another order for the exchange of data other than those set out in the Law. (5) The story of the exchange of data under para. 1 shall be kept for a period of 10 years. Persons shall be entitled to free access to the history of the data relating to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u11	Statements, colleagues, under § 2? I won't. We are voting § 2 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: 92, none, abstention 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u12	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u13	Statements? I won't. I shall put an annex to the vote § 3 and § 4 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 92, none, abstention 12. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u14	Paragraph 5? a proposal from the National Representative Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Pavel Hristov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Valkov according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5. .................................................................................. After art. 7 Chapter 1 is created with art. 7 7a-7q: ? Chapter 1??? Management of activities in the field of electronic management Section I State Agency "E-Management" "E-Management" "E-Management" "E-Management"" Status Art. 7a. (1) The Council of Ministers shall be established by the State Agency of Electronic Governance, hereinafter referred to as the Agency. (2) The Agency shall be a legal person of budgetary maintenance based in the city. Sofia. (3) The activities, structure and organisation of the Agency shall be determined by rules adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Chair of the Agency. (4) The Agency shall cooperate and interact on e-government issues with the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union, with the institutions of the European Union and with other international organisations. Chairman of the State Agency Art. 7b. (1) The Agency shall be led and represented by a Chair, which shall be determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers and appointed by the Prime Minister for a period of 5 years. (2) The Chair of the Agency may be appointed a person who has completed higher education with a Master's degree and at least five years of experience in the management and coordination of projects in the field of information technology or electronic management. (3) The Chair of the Agency shall be a senior authorising officer with a budget. (4) In carrying out its functions, the Chair of the Agency shall be assisted by Vice-Presidents, who shall be appointed by a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Chair of the Agency and shall meet the conditions laid down in para. 2. (5) The President of the Agency may be released before the expiry of the term of office: 1. at his request; 2. in case of incompatibility; 3. in the event of death or obstruction; 4. in the event of actual inability to perform its duties for more than 6 months; 5. when he is sentenced to prison for a deliberate crime of general nature with an effective sentence; 6. in the event of serious infringement or systematic failure to comply with the duties; 7. upon the entry into force of an act establishing a conflict of interest under the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest. (6) In the event of the death or early release of the Chair of the Agency, the Council of Ministers shall, within one month, appoint a new President who shall complete the term of office. (7) The President and Vice-Presidents of the Agency shall not be able to take up or operate under art. 19th para. 6 of the Administration Act. (8) Within 10 days of his appointment, the Chair of the Agency shall publish on the Agency's website and make public his concept of e-government development and of ensuring continuity and sustainability of state policy in this field. Powers of the Chair of the Agency Art. 7c. The Chair of the Agency shall: 1. conduct state policy in the following areas: (a) electronic control; (b) electronic certification services; (c) electronic identification; (d) network and information security; (e) the spatial information infrastructure; (f) public sector information in machine-readable open format; 2. develop and propose for adoption by the Council of Ministers draft regulations in the field of electronic management and the use of information and communication technologies in the activities of administrative bodies and their administrations; 3. develop and propose for adoption by the Council of Ministers Strategy for the Development of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. approve sectoral strategies for the development of electronic management and validate and control the implementation of the plans for their implementation; 5. develop and propose for adoption by the Council of Ministers a single policy on information resources, issue methodological guidelines and coordinate its implementation; 6. issue methodological guidelines and coordinate the implementation of network and information security policies related to the functioning of electronic management; 7. implement methodological guidance, coordination and control of activities for the implementation of the requirements for the internal turnover of electronic documents and their subsequent backup, as well as paper-based documents in administrations; 8. coordinate between the administrative bodies, the persons referred to in Article 8. 1, para. 2 and other persons with regard to electronic management; 9. review compliance with the established policies, strategic documents and programs and provide guidance and coordination of the documents under art. 7d, para. 2, p. 1 and 2 in the field of electronic management, information and communication technologies of all administrations in order determined by the regulation under art. 7d, para. 6; 10. participate in prioritizing, coordinating and controlling the implementation and maintenance of electronic administrative services and information systems in administrations; 11. support the development and validation of project proposals, coordinate and monitor the implementation of e-management, information and communication technologies projects in administrations financed by the State budget, by the Structural and Investment Funds of the European Union and from other sources; 12. certify the compliance of information systems with interoperability, network and information security requirements and controls administrations to comply with these requirements; 13. coordinate and support the integration of information systems for electronic management of administrative bodies with those of the Member States of the European Union; 14. implement e-government projects relevant to all administrations; 15. build, develop and maintain the shared resources of electronic management; 16. builds, leads and maintains the registers under this law; 17. build and maintain a single portal for access to electronic administrative services; 18. implement and maintain a public national repository and system for controlling the versions of the source code and the technical documentation of the information systems in administrations; 19. issue methodological guidance and assist administrations in defining the structure and content of data sets for publication in the integrated open data platform under the Public Information Access Act; 20. implement methodological guidance, coordination and control over the activities of the construction, maintenance and use of national infrastructure for spatial information and exercise the powers under the Law on access to spatial data; 21. build and maintain a National Center for Electronic Identification and perform functions in relation to electronic identification in order defined by the Law on Electronic Identification; 22. Powers under Regulation (EU) No are conferred on the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC (OB, L 257/73 of 28 August 2014.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 23. exercise powers under the Law on Electronic Communications; 24. adopt a programme to attract highly qualified experts in the field of information and communication technologies to support the development of electronic management; 25. supervise the performance of the duties of the primary data controllers under art. 3; 26. Control the fulfilment of the requirements under art. 58b. Control in the framework of the budgetary process Art. 7 years. (1) The Chair of the Agency shall establish, conduct and maintain an information system for preliminary, current and subsequent controls as appropriate in the field of electronic management and the use of information and communication technologies in the activities of administrative authorities and their administrations. (2) In the course of the budgetary process, all administrative bodies shall be obliged to coordinate with the Chair of the Agency in advance the costs of electronic management and information and communication technologies used by them, providing information on: 1. the three-year budget forecasts; 2. the draft budgets for the following year; 3. the established annual budgets and the changes made to their budgets in this area; 4. current and annual accounts. (3) The information under para. 2 necessarily includes a breakdown by the Single Budget Classification (ECC) and by the General Terminological Dictionary (CPV). (4) The information under para. 2 shall be submitted electronically by employees designated by the administrative authority. The staff shall be responsible for the reliability of the information entered, as well as for its timely introduction. (5) Access to the data from the information system under para. 1 is free and free. (6) The conditions and arrangements for the presentation of the information under para. 2, as well as the coordination processes under art. 7c, t. 9 shall be determined by a decree adopted by the Council of Ministers. Register of projects and activities Art. 7e. (1) The Chair of the Agency shall establish, keep and maintain a public electronic register of projects and activities in the field of electronic management, information and communication technologies in administrations, which shall contain information on: 1. proposals for projects and activities, opinions of the Agency, approved and rejected projects and activities; 2. the general and specific objectives of the projects and activities, the expected results and measurable indicators of the result; 3. the main activities with indicative budgets and performance plan; 4. the technical tasks of the projects; 5. the implementation of the projects and activities and the results achieved, including financial impact and assessment of the quality of implementation. (2) The information under para. 1 necessarily includes a breakdown by the Single Budget Classification (ECC) and by the General Terminological Dictionary (CPV). (3) The Register under para. 1 shall be maintained as an electronic information system in which employees designated by the administrative authority record the information. The staff shall be responsible for the reliability of the information entered, as well as for its timely introduction. (4) Access to the data from the register under para. 1 is free and free. (5) The circumstances to be recorded, the conditions and arrangements for keeping, maintaining and using the register under para. 1 shall be determined by the regulation but art. 7d, para. 6. Register of Information Resources Art. 7f. (1) The Chair of the Agency shall establish, keep and maintain a register of information resources containing information on: 1. the information resources available to the administrative authorities, with the exception of those intended to operate and store classified information; 2. the information resources of the single electronic communication network (ESM) of the public administration and for the needs of national security; 3. annual plans to update the information resources of administrations. (2) The information under para. 1 necessarily includes a breakdown by the Single Budget Classification (ECC) and by the General Terminological Dictionary (CPV). (3) The Register under para. 1 shall be maintained as an electronic information system in which employees designated by the administrative authority record the information. The staff shall be responsible for the reliability of the information entered, as well as for its timely introduction. (4) The administrative bodies shall be obliged to enter into the register under para. 1 data on information resources within one month of the introduction, respectively, from their decommissioning. (5) The circumstances to be recorded, the conditions and arrangements for keeping, maintaining and using the register under para. 1 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 7d, para. 6. Mechanism of planning information resources in administrations Art. 7g. (1) Each administrative authority within the framework of its approved budget shall draw up and introduce into the information system under art. 7f, para. A 3 year plan for the renewal of information resources in its administration, indicative values and deadlines for implementation. (2) The President of the Agency shall issue methodological instructions to the bodies under para. 1 on compliance of the plan with the requirements of the law, the effective use of existing information resources entered in the register of information resources in the administration, strategies and programmes in the field of electronic management. (3) The Chair of the Agency shall prepare annually and submit to the Council of Ministers a status report and an annual plan for the development and renewal of information resources in the administration and information resources of the single electronic communication network of the state administration and for the needs of national security by 30 August. The report and the annual plan shall be published on the Agency's website. Consistency of draft regulatory acts Art. 7h. (1) All draft regulatory acts governing relations relating to electronic management shall be co-ordinated with the Agency. (2) The Agency shall coordinate the adoption and application of state standards in the field of electronic management. Compulsoryity of orders Art. 7th. The Chair of the Agency shall issue binding orders to the administrative authorities and the persons referred to in Article. 1, para. 2 concerning compliance with the requirements of this Law. Section II State-owned enterprise "Unified system operator" Status Art. 7k. (1) State enterprise under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Act with the name of the State-owned enterprise The State-owned undertaking is a legal entity with its registered office in the city. Sofia. (2) The State-owned undertaking is a public-service provider. The State-owned enterprise "Unified System Operator" shall assist the Chair of the Agency by: 1. information contact centre for the service of citizens and business in the field of electronic management; 2. an auxiliary contact centre for the services of state authorities using the shared information resources of electronic management; 3. a national incident centre for information security; 4. build and maintain the National Portal for spatial data through which the connection to the European Community spatial information infrastructure geoportal (INSPIRE) is made; (3) In order to assist administrations in carrying out their functions, the DPs shall provide them with the following internal services upon request: 1. continuous monitoring, registration of incidents, diagnosis of problems and management of the maintenance of shared information resources of electronic management; 2. registration of incidents, diagnosis of problems, management of maintenance and control of changes of system and application software, information systems and electronic services located on shared information resources of electronic management; 3. capacity management and resource allocation among all state authorities using the shared information resources of electronic management; 4. initial configuration and introduction of new services on shared information resources of electronic management; 5. building, development and maintenance of an environment for testing electronic administrative services on shared information resources of electronic management; 6. control of the implementation of contracts on development and maintenance of shared information resources of electronic management; 7. carrying out specialized audits and analyses in the field of electronic management, information and communication technologies, as well as network and information security; 8. consulting and developing projects of system and applied architectures for information systems and electronic services; 9. preparation of technical specifications by programs, projects and contracts of all administrative bodies in the field of electronic management, information and communication technologies at a value for the award of a procurement contract for supplies and services above the thresholds of art. 20, para. 1, t. Point 1 (b) (i) and (ii) of Article 4 (1) (b) (ii) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union') of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union') of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union') of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union') of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union') of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union') of the European Union (hereinafter 10. management of the implementation of e-management, information and communication technologies projects; 11. control and participation in the adoption of the performance of contractors under procurement contracts for supplies and services in the field of electronic management, information and communication technologies; 12. management and control of interoperability and support processes and implementation of integration activities of information systems and electronic administrative services. (4) Except for the functions under para. 2 and 3 DP "ESO" shall carry out the following activity only on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria: 1. provision of services in the field of electronic management and information and communication technologies; 2. provision of services for analysis of business and technological processes, project management and quality control; 3. provision of interoperability services; 4. provision of network and information security services; 5. carrying out other activities that provide or complement the main subject of activity. (5) The State-owned undertaking shall be a single system operator who may be a contractor in public procurement contracts whose subject-matter includes activities under para. 4 except for public procurement in respect of which it performs functions under para. 3, p. 9, 10, 11 or 12. Property and financing of the State Enterprise Art. 7L. (1) The property of the Ministry of Economy shall consist of the property provided to it by the Council of Ministers and by the Agency, as well as of the assets acquired by the Ministry of Economy as a result of its activities. (2) The property of the Ministry of Economy shall not serve to secure third parties' obligations. (3) For the State Enterprise, a single system operator shall not open insolvency proceedings. (4) A forceful execution cannot be directed against the property of the DP. (5) The activities of the DS ESOs for the performance of the tasks related to the main subject of activity shall be financed by: 1. Revenue from activities under art. 7k, para. 3 and 4; 2. donations from local and foreign natural and legal persons; 3. proceeds from interest on deposits; 4. funds from international programmes and financial instruments. (6) Revenues under art. 7k, para. 4 shall be less than twenty percent of the total revenue of the undertaking on an annual basis. (7) For activities under art. 7k, para. 3 separate analytical accounting shall be kept from that for the activities under art. 7k, para. 4 in accordance with accounting legislation. (8) The funds under para. 5 shall be taken for a walk: 1. carrying out the subject of activity and the functions of the 2. maintenance of the DP 3. investment costs related to the subject of activity and the functions of the DS............................................................................................. Control bodies Art. 7 meters. (1) The management bodies of the DPs shall be: 1. the Chair of the Agency; 2. the Management Board; 3. The Director-General. (2) The Chair of the Agency shall: 1. exercise the ownership rights of the State in the DP 2. propose for adoption by the Council of Ministers the Rules of Procedure, the structure and organization of the DS 3. propose for adoption by the Council of Ministers a program for the development of DS 4. propose to the Council of Ministers the appointment and release of the members of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the DS 5. appoint and dismiss the Director-General, who is by law a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of the Board of Directors of the Board of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the 6. validates the decisions of the Management Board on the participation of the Board of Directors in civil and commercial companies and non-profit legal entities; 7. approve the decisions of the Management Board to participate in international organisations and projects; 8. approve the decisions of the Management Board for the establishment of property rights and for the lease of real estate - property of the DP.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 9. draw up a classificationr for the activities and services of the DS "ESO" under art. 7k, para. 2 and 3 and a methodology for determining their cost on the basis of an analysis of the eligible and inherent costs for each activity and service; 10. annually prepare an assessment of the costs of activities and services of the DS....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 7k, para. 2 and 3 entered in the classificationr, and according to the methodology of the classification. 9; 11. annually prepare an analysis of the normal market profit rates for the services provided by the DS "ESO" under art. 7k, para. 3 entered in the classification under point 3. 9; 12. An annual tariff shall be drawn up for the final prices of the services provided by the DPs under art. 7k, para. 3 which are formed on a cost-oriented basis on the basis of the costs according to the valuation under point 3. 10 and a profit which cannot be more than half of the normal profit for the service in question established by the analysis under point (c). 11; 13. propose for adoption by the Council of Ministers the classificationr, methodologies and tariffs under point 13. 9 and 12. Management Board Art. 7n. (1) The Management Board shall consist of three members, including the Director-General, who shall be appointed by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Chair of the Agency for a period of five years. (2) The Chair of the Agency shall conclude a management contract with each member of the Management Board. (3) It shall not be a member of the Management Board who: 1. is convicted of a common criminal offence established by an effective sentence; 2. is a spouse or relative by rights, on a competitive line or by matchmaking to the third degree, including with another member of the Management Board; 3. hold a position in the management bodies of another undertaking, company or association which carries out a competitive activity of the DP 4. have contractual relations with another undertaking, company or association which carries out a competitive activity of the DP 5. is a partner in a collection, command company or in a limited liability company which carries out activities similar to the activities of the DP. 6. on its own or on its own behalf performs commercial transactions which are similar to the activities of the DP 7. is a civil servant. (4) The Governing Council shall meet at least once every two months. (5) The decisions of the Management Board shall be adopted by a clear vote and by a simple majority. (6) Control of the implementation of the decisions of the Management Board shall be carried out by the Chair of the Management Board. (7) The Chair of the Agency shall propose to the Council of Ministers for an exemption before the expiry of the management contract a member of the Management Board who shall: 1. does not meet the requirements of para. 3; 2. violates its obligations laid down in the management contract; 3. has submitted a written application for an exemption. (8) The Management Board shall: 1. elect from among its members the President; 2. draw up draft Rules of Procedure, structure and organisation of the DS 3. draw up a draft programme for development of 4. adopt the annual financial plan of the DP 5. adopt the structure, state and salary funds of the DS "ESO" in accordance with the annual financial plan; 6. adopt the annual financial statement of the DP 7. decide on the disposal, scrapping or liquidation of fixed tangible assets, on the establishment of property rights and on the lease of real estate property................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (9) The Management Board shall meet if at least two of its members are present. Any member of the Board may authorise another member of the Board with an explicit power of attorney on a case-by-case basis. A member present may not represent more than one absent. (10) The Governing Council may take decisions and in absentia if all members have made written consent to the decision. Director-General Art. Seven o'clock. The Director-General of the DS "ESO" shall: 1. represent the DS "ESO" in front of the state authorities, courts and third parties in the country and abroad; 2. organize, manage and control the overall activities of the DS 3. conclude contracts for the activities carried out by the DS 4. conclude and terminate employment with the employees of the DS "ESO"; 5. report its activities to the Management Board. "Department III" Open Control The obligation of the State Agency to publish the information. Art. 7p. (1) The Agency shall publish monthly up-to-date information on its activity in a machine-based open format, including through the integrated open data platform, with the exception of data under point 1. 1 which is published daily in accordance with the Law on Access to Public Information. The information shall contain at least the following information: 1. the data from the register under art. 7d, para. 1; 2. generalized statistical data from the register under art. 7f, para. 1; 3. details of the acts under art. 63 and 64; 4. other sets of data defined by the ordinance under art. 7d, para. 6. Debt of the State-owned enterprise - Single System Operator (s) for publication of information Art. 7p. A single system operator shall annually publish up-to-date information on its activity in a machine readable open format, including through the integrated open data platform under the Public Information Access Act. The information shall contain at least the following information: 1. statistics on activities and services under art. 7k; 2. the volumes of services carried out and the revenues from them broken down by contracting entities and services by the classificationor of the services referred to in art. 7 m, para. 2, p. 9; 3. the cost of economic elements broken down by contractors and suppliers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A number of editorial proposals in art. 7c, t. 19 the words "the platform' shall be replaced by "portal'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u17	What page is this?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u18	Page 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u19	Point 19 begins with: "Publish methodical guidelines and assists administrations in the definition of..................................................................................................... That's it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u20	To replace the platform with the word "portal."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u21	Instead of a platform, it's a portal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u22	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u23	To replace the entire expression of the platform.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u24	The expression "the platform' shall be replaced by "the portal'. This also applies to art. 7p, para. Art. 1q and Art. 1q 7p. From now on, this expression will reappear. If we could replace it anywhere with a portal. The idea is to have one term everywhere in accordance with the Public Information Access Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u25	You're suggesting that we replace him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u26	Yeah, I got some under art. 7n, para. 3, ct. 2 et c. 3 to be completed after the State-owned company "Unified system operator" and to be included:.. except for commercial companies with predominantly state participation or other state-owned enterprises........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It's an idea to have continuity between institutions and this...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u27	Where's that at 7n, excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u28	At 7n, al. 3, p. 2 et c. 3 "After the end of the sentence to put a comma and to write it down:' except for commercial companies with predominantly state participation or other state-owned enterprises. This is for the continuity of the work of the agencies and the creation of the new state enterprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u29	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleague Trenchev, the proposal you are making in art. 7n, it makes sense. Just one remark: what you read should be in point. 3 et c. 4 and not c. 2 and 3, since the report added t. 2 concerning relations, respectively. 2 has become t. 3 et c. 4. That's why your offer should be there.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u31	This is about commercial companies with predominantly state participation or other state-owned enterprises? Is that what you mean? To be in t. 3 and 4 and not 2 and 3? That's a line. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Trenchev, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yeah, my colleague's right. Please be reflected as he suggested.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Trenchev. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposals of the National Representative Antony Trenchev to replace the expression "the platform" with the word "portal." He suggested that this be done in three places, as presented by the parliamentary tribune. Vote 94 MPs: 81, no objection, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. In view of the adoption of this situation, it is adopted everywhere in the text, where there is further in the bill, to replace the Cancel this vote. Make another suggestion in art. 7n in para. 3, p. 3 and 4 sentences in both places should be extended with the exception of commercial companies with predominantly state participation or other state-owned enterprises. Please also vote on this proposal. Vote 91 MPs: for 74, no objection, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote § 5 by importer, generally supported by the Commission, edited by the same, in accordance with the text on the report, together with the proposals just adopted by the National Representative Antony Trenchev. Vote 98 MPs: 82, no objection, abstention 16. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u34	Under § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Valkov according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 6: ........................................................... Art. 11 is amended as A commitment to accept and issue electronic documents Art. 11. Electronic administrative service providers shall not refuse the acceptance of electronic documents, statements issued and signed as electronic documents as required by the Law and shall refuse the issuance of electronic documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u35	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 6, edited by the Commission and proposed to your attention in accordance with its report. Vote 89 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 13. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u36	Under Paragraph 7, there is a proposal from Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Pavel Hristov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by the Chairman of the State Agency. 2. In para. 2 words in a user-friendly dialogue mode shall be deleted. 3. The creation of para. 6: The Council of Ministers shall have the right to use the name of the domain of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u37	Paragraphs 8 and 9 are supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u38	The Commission shall support the import text under § 8. The Commission shall support the import text for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u39	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 10. Paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u40	Under § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Paul Hristov under Article 10. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 2 after the words are published, a comma is added, including in a machine-reading open format and a comma is placed, and the words "the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" are replaced by "the State Agency "E-Management."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u41	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 10, edited by the Commission in accordance with its report. They voted 93 MPs: 81, none, abstention 12. Paragraph 10 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u42	According to § 11 "A proposal from the MP Pavel Hristov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 After the words................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u43	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 11 and 12 in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 97 MPs: 82, none, abstention 15. Paragraphs 11 and 12 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u44	According to § 13 the proposal from the National Representative Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC (OJ L 257/73 of 28 August 2014.) The following shall be deleted: 2. In para. 3 words under the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signage and the Law on Electronic Signage are deleted. 3. The creation of para. 5. When submitting applications for electronic administrative services by natural persons that have been electronically identified under the Law on Electronic Identification, electronic statements may be signed with an advanced electronic signature.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u45	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 13, edited by the Commission and presented in its report just now. We are voting § 13 on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 10. Paragraph 13 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u46	Proposal by the MP Antoni Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 24a: "Messenger for Electronic Statements" Administrative services Art. 24a. Citizens may also apply for electronic administrative services through an intermediary. The activity of the intermediaries shall be governed by the ordinance under art. 12, para. 4. Proposal by the MP Antoni Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Pavel Hristov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 24b: An automatic establishment of a legal representative power Art. 24b. The primary data controllers shall provide to all administrative authorities and persons under art. 1, para. 2 an internal electronic administrative service for the verification of representative power where it arises or can be established by entries in registers or databases maintained by them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u47	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission proposal to create new paragraphs with their respective content on the 14 and 15 numbering report. 90 MPs voted: 77, none against, abstention 13. The Commission's proposal to establish new paragraphs 14 and 15 with their respective content on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u48	Proposal by the MP Pavel Hristov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... Article 26 is amended as follows: supplier of electronic documents Art. 26. (1) The recipient of the electronic administrative service shall be obliged to indicate an e-mail address for notification in accordance with the requirements laid down in the ordinance under art. 12, para. 4. (2) The delivery of electronic statements by the providers of electronic administrative services may be carried out by sending a message to the e-mail address containing information on the withdrawal of the written document from the secure service information system or from the single portal under art. 12, para. 1. The documents shall be deemed served with their withdrawal. (3) Where the recipient has not downloaded a document within 7 days of sending the message under para. 2, the document shall be served in order laid down by law. (4) The delivery of documents by electronic means shall be certified by a copy of the electronic record for the dispatch, respectively the withdrawal stored in an information system for secure service or in the single portal under art. 12, para. 1. The service may also be certified by a provider of a qualified e-mail service within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u49	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 14, which shall become § 16 in the Commission's report after its amendment. We are voting § 16 on the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 10. Paragraph 16 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u50	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 18. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32, para. 1 the words "the single medium for exchange of documents" shall be replaced by "the other system in order determined by the ordinance under art. 12, para. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u51	Statements? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 15, 16 and 17 by importer, which, in the Commission's report, become paragraphs 17, 18 and 19 following the Commission's support and editing. We are voting paragraphs 17, 18 and 19 on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 7. Paragraphs 17, 18 and 19 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u52	Proposal by Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2: (a) t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." a unique registration identifier of the document (s) received; (b) c. 3 the words............................................................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 4 the words "mail service' shall be replaced by the address of the service provider, and the words "the single medium for the exchange of documents' or "the same medium for the exchange of documents' shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u53	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 20; and the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 21, which shall be fully supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 12. Paragraphs 20 and 21 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u54	Proposal by the MP Pavel Hristov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 37 is amended as follows: Rules for the use of electronic signatures Art. 37. The rules for the acquisition, use, renewal and termination of electronic signatures certificates, electronic stamps certificates, electronic time stamps certificates and certificates of authenticity on the websites of the administrations shall be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u55	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support and edited text of the importer for § 20, which in the report shall become § 22; and paragraphs 21 and 22 by importer, which shall become paragraphs 23 and 24 by the Commission's support in its report. They voted 83 MPs: 75, none, abstention 8. Paragraphs 22, 23 and 24 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u56	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "Operational" is added. 2. In para. 3 the words "The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by the Head of the State Agency "E-Management," the words "National Information Officers" shall be replaced by the "Information Officers" and after the word "the Administrative Authorities" shall be added. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u57	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support and edited text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 25; and the importer's text for § 24, fully supported by the Commission, which shall become § 26 in its report. Vote 79 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 8. Paragraphs 25 and 26 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u58	A proposal from Pavel Hristov under art. 80, para. 2, p. 4 of the subspn. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: Article 49 is amended as follows: "Entrepreneurship in the Register of Information Sites Art. 49. The Chair of the Agency shall ensure that the technical description and the registration in the register of each information establishment is carried out in accordance with the rules laid down in art. 43, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u59	Statements? I won't. We are voting in principle and edited by the Commission by the importer for § 25, which becomes § 27 in its report. Vote 77 MPs: 66, none, abstention 11. Paragraph 27 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u60	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 Article 50 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u61	Statements? I won't. We shall vote on § 26 by importer, generally supported and edited by the Commission, which shall become § 28 in its report. Vote 79 MPs: 67, none, abstention 12. Paragraph 28 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u62	The Commission proposes to create a new § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u63	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 29 with its respective content. Vote 74 MPs: 69, none, abstention 5. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 29 with its respective content has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u64	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54 the following additions are made: 1. In the title, after the words "insuring', the title shall be added to the network and shall be added. 2. In the text after the word
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u65	Statements? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 27 and 28 by importer, which become paragraphs 30 and 31, fully supported by the Commission; as well as the text of the importer, generally supported and edited by the Commission for § 29, which becomes § 32. Vote 78 MPs: 68, none, abstention 10. Paragraphs 30, 31 and 32 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u66	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 33. Proposal by Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 34: ................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 55a: "Accepting alerts for information security problems Art. 55a. By the ordinance of art. 43, para. 2 rules are laid down for the reception of alerts by citizens and information security organisations in accordance with the recommendations of the European Union Agency for Network and Information Security. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u67	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Editorial proposal to replace the platform with the portal. This is § 34 in art. 58a, para. 1, t. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u69	Mr. Trenchev, we haven't reached this paragraph yet. That's in § 34 by importer, right? We're not there yet. He hasn't been reported. Are there any other statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 30 by importer, fully supported by the Commission, a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 34 with its corresponding content on the Commission report, paragraphs 31 and 32 by importer, which are supported by the Commission. We are voting on paragraphs 33, 34, 35 and 36 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: 73, none, abstention 6. Paragraphs 33, 34, 35 and 36 of the Commission report have been adopted. With § 33 by importer, we proceed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u70	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 after the words "compatibility" and "the network" is added, and the words "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" are replaced by the Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u71	Statements? There are no speeches. We are voting for the generally supported text of the importer for § 33 which, after editing by the Commission, becomes § 37 in its report. We are voting § 37 on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 76, none, abstention 11. Paragraph 37 of the Commission report has been adopted. Moving on to § 34 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u72	Proposal by Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Pavel Hristov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In Chapter 4 of Article 4. Section V with art. 58 shall be created. 58a and 58b: "Department V' Requirements for electronic management projects and activities Mandatory requirements for the preparation of jobs Art. 58a. (1) When preparing technical and functional procurement tasks for the development, upgrade or deployment of information systems or electronic services, administrative authorities shall necessarily include in the tasks the following requirements: 1. in cases where the subject-matter of the order involves the development of computer programs: (a) computer programs must meet the criteria for open source software; (b) all copyrights and related rights to the computer programmes concerned, their source code, the design of interfaces and databases subject to the contract must arise for the contracting entity in full, without restrictions on their use, modification and dissemination; (c) The repository and the version control system maintained by the Agency under art. 7c, t. 18; 2. to implement automated interfaces to provide free public access to electronic documents, information and data in machine-reading open format, including through publication in the integrated open data platform under the Public Information Access Act; 3. to implement technological and architectural solutions to ensure non-discriminatory installation, operation and maintenance, as well as performance and failure of the information system in productive mode on shared resources of electronic management; 4. to implement a service interface for automated online data exchange and provision of internal electronic administrative services as required by this law; 5. to implement a service interface for automated online data exchange on the history of executed transactions on the provided electronic services, automated data exchanges, and charged fees to information systems of other public institutions and public service providers with a view to providing complex administrative services according to the existing interoperability and information security requirements; 6. in the event that more than one administration is a potential user of the system, the technical possibility of simultaneous use of the system by more than one administration, in accordance with the existing interoperability and information security requirements; 7. to realize functionality for electronic authentication of authorship, integrity, time, service and others, through electronic certification services within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 910/2014, and to ensure continuous maintenance of the current standards of information security; 8. to implement periodically the creation of backups and backup of the data in order determined by the ordinance under art. 43, para 2; 9. to implement electronic identification functionalities under the Law on Electronic Identification; 10. meet other specific requirements defined by the ordinance under art. 12, para. 4. Art. 58b. The compliance of the information systems implemented by the administrative bodies with the established regulatory requirements under art. 58a shall be certified by the Chair of the Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u73	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Trenchev, on t. 2 is your offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u74	If I may, I will repeat the proposal: in para. 1, t. 2 The proposal is to replace the words "the platform" with the portal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u75	Are there any other statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune in art. 58a, para. 1, t. 2 the expression "the platform' shall be replaced by the word "portal'. Please vote on the proposal. Vote 80 MPs: 71, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 34, which, after an amendment by the Commission, becomes § 38 in its report, together with the newly adopted proposal made by the parliamentary platform. Please vote. Vote 77 MPs: 68, no objection, abstention 9. Paragraph 38 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u76	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the title, after the words "compatibility' and "the network and the network' are added. 2. In para. 1 the words "The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by the Head of the State Agency "E-Management" and, after the words "E-Management" shall be added "Network" and "E-Management." 3. In para. The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications is replaced by the Head of the State Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u77	Statements? I won't. We vote § 35 by importer, which is generally supported by the Commission, is edited by the same and becomes § 39 in its report. We are voting § 39 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 70, none, abstention 11. Paragraph 39 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u78	Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Valkov according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words. 5, para. A comma shall be placed and added to the list. 7d-7p, 8p, the words "six" are replaced by "six" and "six" and the numbers "six" and "six" are replaced by "six" respectively by "six" and "six" and "six" respectively. 2. In para. 2 the numbers sssssssssss and sssssssss and ssssssssss and sssssssssssssss. 3. In para. 3 the numbers ssssssss and ssssssssssssss and sssssssssssssssssssssssssss andssssssssssssssssss. 4. In para. 4 the numbers ssssssssss and sssssssssss and sssssssssss and sssssssssssss. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u79	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the generally supported text of the importer for § 36, which is edited by the Commission and becomes § 40 in its report, as well as the fully supported text of the importer for § 37, which becomes § 41 in the Commission report. We are voting on paragraphs 40 and 41 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 7. Paragraphs have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u80	Paragraph 38. Proposal by the MP Antoni Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Pavel Hristov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 42: .............................................................................. Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. The electronic document is an electronic document within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 2. Point 7 is repealed. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10 the word "Species' is replaced by "Network and Information'. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 12 after the word "Postical', a comma shall be placed and a "banking, financial and certification' shall be added within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No are added. 5. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 14 6. They're creating a t. 23-35: "23." The e-mail address is identifiable through a commonly accepted standard information system for receiving electronic statements. 24. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 25. The electronic stamp shall be an electronic stamp within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 26. The State hybrid private cloud is a centralized state information infrastructure (servers, data storage, communication equipment, accompanying equipment and system software) distributed to several locations in premises meeting the criteria for the construction of protected information centres, which provides physical and virtual resources for use and administration by the public authorities, in ensuring a high level of security, reliability, isolation of individual users and inability to intervene in the performance of their information systems or unauthorized access to their information resources. The isolation of resources and networks of individual sectoral users shall be ensured by measures to divide the physical and logical level. 27. The information resources shared by e-governments are the technical infrastructure, the single electronic communications network, the information centres and the state hybrid private cloud, which are created and developed by the Agency and used by all state authorities. 28. The information resources policy is a set of rules and standards defining the type-approval requirements for technical and functional characteristics when purchasing or hiring fixed tangible and intangible assets, as well as rules on the use and management of assets' life cycle, in the field of electronic management and the use of information and communication technologies in the activities of administrative authorities and their administrations. 29. The source code is a set of instructions and comments written in a human-comprehensible programming language that form a computer program. 30. The Open Source Software is a computer program whose source code is publicly available for free use, with the right to review and with the right to edit under conditions specified by the copyright holder. 31. The Security Service System is an e-mail within the meaning of the Regulation. 32. The single portal is a single point of access to the electronic administrative services of all administrations with up-to-date technological means and interfaces. 33. "Inner service" is a service provided to the DS administrations to support their statutory functions, under the procedure for exceptions applicable to public contracting entities, according to art. 14, para. 1, t. 5 and so on. 7 of the Public Procurement Act. 34. It is the ability of information systems and technical infrastructure to perform their functions despite incapacity or lack of performance of a part of their elements. 35. In the case of electronic administrative services, an intermediary is a person representing by the mandate recipient of electronic administrative services for the application and receipt of the service concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u81	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the generally supported text of the importer for § 38, which is edited by the Commission and becomes § 42 in its report. Please vote. Vote 75 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 4. Paragraph 42 of the Commission's report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u82	The Commission proposes to create a new § 43: ..................................................... In the other texts of the law, the words "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" and "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced, respectively, by the Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management," the Chairman of the State Agency "E-Management" and the "State Agency."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u83	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 43 with its corresponding content on the report. Please vote § 43 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 69 MPs: for 67, not against, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 43 with its corresponding content on the report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u84	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u85	We are voting on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, on the name "Transitional and final provisions." Vote 66 MPs: for 66, against and abstention there is no. The name of the division is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u86	Under § 39, the Commission supports the text of the importer, but proposes that § 39 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u87	We are voting on the Commission's motion to reject § 39 as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 43 which we have just voted on. Please vote on the Commission proposal. Vote 71 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u88	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... Within 3 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the ordinance under Article. 7d, para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u89	We vote § 40 by importer, generally supported by the Commission, edited by the same and becoming § 44 in its report. Please vote on § 44 on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 3. Paragraph 44 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u90	Under § 45, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Council of Ministers and the ministers shall bring the regulations adopted by them in accordance with that law within 6 months of its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u91	We are voting § 41 by importer, which has been adopted in principle by the Commission, is edited by it and becomes § 45 in its report. Please vote § 45 on the Commission report. Vote 73 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 3. Paragraph 45 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u92	The Commission proposes to create a new § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) The Executive Agency of Electronic Communications Networks and Information Systems shall be closed to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. (2) The assets, liabilities, archives, as well as other rights and obligations of the closed Executive Agency (3) The Council of Ministers shall adopt the Rules of Procedure, the structure and the organization of the State Agency 1 and the transfer under para. 2, within 3 months of the entry into force of this law. (4) The working and working relationships with the employees of the closed Executive Agency "Electronic communications networks and information systems" which serve functions in the field of electronic management shall be transferred to the State Agency "E-Management" under the terms and conditions of art. Article 123 of the Labour Code and Article 123 of the Labour Code. 87a of the Civil Service Act and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the structure and organization of the State Agency. (5) The working and working relationships with the employees of the closed Executive Agency "Electronic communications networks and information systems" other than those under para. 4 shall be governed under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 4. 328, para. 1, t. 1 of the Labour Code and respectively art. 106, para. 1, t. 1 of the Civil Service Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u93	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 46 with its corresponding content under the Commission report. Please vote. 70 MPs voted: 65, none, abstention 5. The proposal to create a new § 46 in its respective content on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u94	The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 47: ss ss s s s s s The Chairman of the State Agency "Electronical Management" shall carry out an inventory and audit of all information resources in the administrations within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43 which shall become § 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u95	We are voting for § 42 by importer, generally supported by the Commission, edited by the same and becoming § 47 in its report, as well as by the importer for § 43, which is fully supported by the Commission and becomes § 48 in its report. We are voting on paragraphs 47 and 48 on the Commission report. Vote 71 MPs: 66, none, abstention 5. The texts are being adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u96	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Access to Space Data (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 4 words "Executive Agency" "Electronic communications networks and information systems" to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications " shall be replaced by "State Agency" "Electronic management". 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 Everywhere the words are replaced by the "Electronic Communications Networks and Information Systems" State Agency "E-Management." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by the Chairman of the State Agency. (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." State-owned enterprise 4. Everywhere in the law, the words "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" and "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced, respectively, by the Chairman of the Department of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u97	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 44, which shall become § 49 in the version of the Commission, as well as the text of the importer for § 45, fully supported by the Commission and becoming § 50. Vote 76 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 2. Paragraphs 49 and 50 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u98	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46, which shall become § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Special Bets (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 25 is created. 4. The State authorities do not owe a State charge under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u99	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the generally supported text of the importer for § 46, which, after editing by the Commission, becomes § 51. Vote 75 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 4. Paragraph 51 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u100	Proposal by the MP Pavel Hristov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47, which shall become § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Road Traffic (prom., SG No. Art....) 142 is amended as follows: Art. 142. (1) The Minister of Interior shall establish a procedure for the official provision of data on registered road vehicles to the persons concerned. The Registration Office shall, when transmitting data from the Register, keep records containing information on the data transmitted, the time of their transmission, the applicant's data on the reference and the purposes for which the data are requested. (2) The right of free access in real time shall have all state bodies, organisations and legal entities which process the data under a law or act of the Minister of Interior. (3) The Minister of Interior shall publish monthly data on registered road vehicles in the integrated open data platform under the Public Information Access Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u101	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, I have an editorial proposal in para. 3 the words "the platform' shall be replaced by the "portal'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u103	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Paul Hristov in art. 142, para. 3 the expression "the platform' shall be replaced by the word "portal'. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 47, which, after editing by the Commission, becomes § 52, and the newly adopted proposal made by the parliamentary tribune. Vote 79 MPs: 72, none, abstention 7. Paragraph 52 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u104	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 48, which shall become § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 40 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it t. Two and three are canceled. 2. The creation of para. 2: The President of the State Agency of Electronic Management and the Minister of Defence: 1. organize the construction and maintenance of special sites for the needs of defence and installed for the needs of defence facilities for military time; 2. establish, operate, maintain and develop an electronic communications network and management stations in relation to national security and defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u105	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 48 supported in principle by the Commission, which in its report shall become § 53. Vote 84 MPs: 79, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 53 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u106	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 54. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 55. A proposal by Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the National Archive Fund Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 9, para. 2 the words "the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications" shall be replaced by "the Chairman of the State Agency."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u107	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the fully supported texts of the importer for paragraphs 49 and 50, which shall become paragraphs 54 and 55 in the Commission's report, and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 56 with its respective content. 84 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 6. Paragraphs 54, 55 and 56 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u108	Proposal by the MP Antoni Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In the Law on Access to Public Information (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15b, para. 3 after the word "Each year" is added by a proposal of the President of the State Agency "E-Management." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15d, para. 1 the words "The administration of the Council of Ministers" shall be replaced by the "State Agency". 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16a, para. 1 the words "The administration of the Council of Ministers" shall be replaced by the "State Agency". 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 3 after the words................................................................................................ 14, 15, 15a "s' is a comma and is added to "al'. 3, 15d, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (b) in para. 5 after the word "non-representation" shall be added by the entities under art. 3, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 sentence 2 is created: 15d, para. 2 shall be established by the officials appointed by the President of the State Agency (b) in para. 2: (aa) c. 3 after the words................................................................................................ 42, para. Article 4 (1) (a) is replaced by the following: 14, 15, 15a, 15b, 15c, para. Art. 3 and Art. 31, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1): (bb) A new item shall be created. 4. "4." under art. 42, para. 3 concerning Art. 15d, para. 2 by the President of the State Agency "E-Management" or by the officials of the State Agency; (c) the current t. 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u109	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 57 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote on the Commission proposal to create a new § 57. Vote 76 MPs: 70, none, abstention 6. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 57 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u110	Proposal by the MP Pavel Hristov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 58: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Electronic Identification (prom., SG No. ...) all over the words the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u111	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 58 with the content presented to you in its Report. We are voting § 58 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 74, none, abstention 4. The new § 58 of the Commission report has been adopted. Paragraph 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u112	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 51 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u113	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 51 by importer. Please vote on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: 69, no objection, abstention 7. The Commission's proposal to reject § 51 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u114	Proposal by the MP Antoni Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position as a new § 46. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 52 be rejected: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Electronic communications networks and information systems at the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Department of Electronic Management and Communications of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications are converted through a merger at the State Agency of Electronic Governance and the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u115	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 52 by importer. Vote 81 MPs: 72, none, abstention 9. The Commission's proposal to reject § 52 by importer has been accepted. Paragraph 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u116	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 53 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u117	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 53 as it is systematically reflected in a new § 46. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 10. The Commission's proposal to reject § 53 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u118	Proposal by Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 54, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: 1 the words "e-government functions" shall be replaced by "functions" under § 52, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 54 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u119	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 15 against 21 abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text supported by the Commission's importer in principle, which is proposed to be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 46. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 74, no objection, abstention 7. The Commission's proposal to reject § 54 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u120	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 55 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new §46.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u121	Please vote on the Commission's proposal to reject § 55. Vote 85 MPs: 77, none, abstention 8. The Commission's proposal to reject § 55 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u122	Proposal by Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs: screated § 55a with the following text: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Within one month of the entry into force of the Rules of Procedure of the State Agency 1 and 2. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u123	Statements? I won't. We are voting on a proposal from MP Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 17 against 12, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u124	Proposal by Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Until the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the employees of the Executive Agency of Electronic Communications Networks and Information Systems and the Directorate of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall carry out their duties according to the regulations of the departments. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u125	I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs, which are not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 17 against 13, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u126	ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The budget of the State Agency shall be determined for 2016 on the basis of a bilateral protocol for the transfer of appropriations between the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Council of Ministers. (2) The Minister of Finance shall carry out those resulting from para. 1 changes to the corresponding budgets. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 56 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u127	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 56 by importer. Vote 80 MPs: 73, none, abstention 7. The Commission's proposal to reject § 56 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u128	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 57 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u129	Statements? I won't. Please vote on the generally supported text of the importer, but proposed to reject, as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 45. Vote 74 MPs: 69, none, abstention 5. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u130	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 58 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u131	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 58 because it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 44. Vote 74 MPs: 67, none, abstention 7. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u132	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 60: ........................................................ The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of the provisions of: 1. paragraph 15 which shall enter into force from 1 January 2018; 2 para. 18, t. 2 and 3, which shall enter into force from 1 June 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u133	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the fully supported text of the importer for § 59 and generally supported by the importer for § 60, edited by the Commission in accordance with its report. Vote 76 MPs: 69, no objection, abstention 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u134	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 61 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 60, p. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u135	Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u136	My fellow Members, I know this is the last paragraph of this long Law, but I just wanted to say a few words before it is fully adopted. On Tuesday, Mrs. Tsacheva and I returned from Estonia, where we had a two-day very intense visit, with many meetings and many interesting things that we learned there and should strive for. In Estonia, for example, anything can be done online, except marriage, divorce, and sell your property. Absolutely all services can be done online, which should be our goal! I think that if Bulgaria focuses on digital economy, on e-government, it will give us a competitive advantage as a country over foreign investors, but also towards our fellow citizens to use these services. I'll give you some data. 99% of people fill out their tax returns online on the Internet. 99% of all the services offered by the State, which includes the state and municipalities, are available on the Internet. As most of you know, 30% of the vote is done electronically. All medical prescriptions.. 98% of them are also done electronically. I think this is a very good example that we should strive for. With the establishment of this Agency, we are giving impetus to e-government not only in the state, but also in municipalities. This should be a priority for both the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u137	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. Colleagues, any other speeches? I won't. We are voting for the generally supported text of the importer for § 61, but proposed by the Commission for rejection, as it is reflected in its systematic place in § 60, p. 2. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 73 MPs: 64, no objection, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. [[No quorum.]] Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u138	Dear Mr. President, I am making a procedural proposal to re-vote, as we have seen the movement of certain Members in this House. I think some of them couldn't vote. So I ask you to put the proposal to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u139	Please re-vote the procedure. Vote 80 MPs: 72, none, abstention 8. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u140	Proposal by the MP Antoni Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 60. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u141	That was for the record. The bill was passed in a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u142	Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you for adopting this bill today. I will not make political speeches, as the topic of e-government is the subject of exercising political rhetoric by almost all the parties of transition. Today we have created real conditions for its successful introduction into the country, so thank you again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. After a 30-minute interruption, we continue with a very important Draft Law on the ratification of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources, a fair and equal distribution of benefits resulting from their use to the Convention on Biological Diversity. There are reports from the Committee on Environment and Water and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Thirty-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u144	We continue the plenary sitting with: LEGISLATION FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGETH-AFFECTION Please, the Quaestors, invite Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. There is a report from the Committee on Environment and Water. Here you go, Mr. Grudev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on the Environment and Waters on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and a fair and equal distribution of benefits arising from their use to the Convention on Biological Diversity, No 602-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2016. At its regular meeting on 9 June 2016, the Environment and Water Commission examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equal Distribution of Benefits of their Use to the Convention on Biological Diversity, No 602-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2016. The meeting by the Ministry of Environment and Waters was attended by: Boyko Malinov, Deputy Minister, Miroslav Kalugerov, Director of the National Nature Protection Service, Vanya Dimitrova, Head of the Directorate of Environment Policy and Tsvetoslava Todorova, Chief Legal Consult as well as Ivaylo Petkov, Secretary. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Deputy Minister Boyko Malinov. The Nabuya protocol on access to genetic resources and fair and equal distribution of benefits resulting from their use is an Additional Agreement to the Convention on Biological Diversity, which was ratified by the Republic of Bulgaria by a Law adopted by the National Assembly in 1996. This Protocol provides a legal framework for the effective implementation of one of the objectives of the Convention, the fair and equal distribution of benefits in the use of genetic resources. To parties intending to regulate their genetic resources, the document provides a framework for rules and procedures for access to them and provides guidance for the control of users of these resources. The Protocol is expected to contribute to the reduction of biodiversity losses and the suspension of the illegal use of these resources globally. The document was adopted in Nagoya, Japan on 29 October 2010 during the 10th Conference of the Parties to the Convention and entered into force on 12 October 2014, and our country signed it in June 2011. The Protocol was ratified by 72 countries and approved by the European Union by Council Decision of 14 April 2014. With its rich biodiversity Bulgaria will be a source of various genetic resources and the preservation of the unique diversity of Bulgarian nature and the sustainable use of natural resources are the leading priorities of the government. The implementation of the Nagoya Protocol will not have a direct and/or indirect impact on the state budget. The provisions of the Protocol are introduced in European Union legislation by Regulation (EU) No 511/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014. The Republic of Bulgaria shall take the necessary legislative and administrative measures to implement the provisions of the Nagoya Protocol. After the opening of the debate, the attitude took: People's representative Georgi Bozhinov concerning the national competent authority, issuing permissions and research; People's representative Borislav Velikov on the guarantees of implementation and the need for additional legislative changes; Mr. Boyko Malinov with answers for the competences of the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Economy, supplemented by experts of the Ministry. On the basis of the discussion and opinions held, the Committee on Environment and Water, with 14 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u146	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. Following is a report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. People's representative Plamen Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u147	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and a Fair and Equal Distribution of Benefits arising from their Use to the Convention on Biological Diversity, No 602-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2016. At a regular meeting held on 8 June 2016, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equal Distribution of Benefits arising from their Use to the Convention on Biological Diversity. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Environment and Water Boyko Malinov. The Nagoya Protocol is an international treaty concluded on 29 October 2010, which aims to create legal certainty and clarity for the use of genetic resources. It develops and formalises the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity adopted in 2002 by the Parties to the Bonus Convention, for access to genetic resources and equal and fair distribution of the benefits of their use in relation to the application of art. 15 of the Convention on Biological Diversity. Furthermore, the Nagoya Protocol establishes a legal mechanism for the protection of traditional knowledge held by indigenous and local communities for the use of these resources and promotes the cultivation and preservation of cultivated local varieties, plants and breeds of animals. Bulgaria signed the Protocol on 23 June 2011. The European Union has joined the Protocol in accordance with its Council Decision 2014/283/EU. On the basis of this, it has been adopted by the Parties and Regulation (EU) No 511/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures to be followed by users resulting from the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from their use by the Union. Upon accession to the Protocol, the European Union has made a declaration, as well as the countries of Belgium and Syria, and Denmark has indicated part of its territory where it will not apply the provisions of the Protocol. In accordance with art. 34, p. 3 of the UN Convention on Biological Diversity each of the Contracting Parties to the Convention itself or on any of its protocols declare the extent of its competences in relation to the problems affected by the Convention or the Protocol concerned. In this case Bulgaria shall proceed to ratification of the Nabuya Protocol without express declaration. In this situation, following the entry into force of the Protocol on Bulgaria, several specific circumstances relating to its implementation should be taken into account. In Bulgaria, there are no distinct indigenous communities that concern themselves in the Nabuya Protocol which, through their legally authorised representatives, are entitled to provide knowledge of the traditional use of local genetic resources. In accordance with art. 136 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the municipality is the main administrative territorial unit in which local self-government takes place. The power of these three ministries to grant in the area of their competence the authorisations set out in the Nagoya Protocol for the use of genetic resources also arises from this circumstance. The principle of legal certainty requires that the provisions of the Nagoya Protocol apply only to genetic resources over which the State has sovereign rights. On the other hand, open issues remain to be resolved in order to implement the provisions of this Protocol effectively. The Nagoya Protocol does not provide for a retroactivity of its provisions, which means that for a certain period there will be different treatment of genetic resource users and knowledge about them who have already received them compared to those who apply and acquire them in the new order. If two countries have the same genetic resource, they shall be subject to the interest of a potential user, according to art. 11 of the Protocol are called upon to cooperate. If no agreement is reached, the Secretariat of the Convention on Biodiversity, pursuant to art. 27 of the Convention, arbitration and corresponding reconciliation between the Parties, unless they have agreed otherwise. There remains an open question as to how it will proceed if certain actions in the implementation of the Protocol are legal, under European Union law, but are not legal in relation to the legislation of the other State, in case it is not of the European Union. In order to facilitate the development of Bulgarian science is acceptable, according to art. 66, para. 4 of the Biodiversity Act to create facilities for access of Bulgarian and other scientific institutes to genetic resources free of charge when they are intended for non-commercial purposes. The Nabuja Protocol does not contradict that provision. The Nagoya Protocol does not regulate emergency exemptions, such as epidemics and others, where an easier procedure for access to genetic resources is to be ensured for research purposes. This is a matter which for Bulgaria is solved through the e.g. 16 of Regulation (EU) 511/2014, which has direct effect and treats cases of a real and imminent health hazard for humans and animals or plants, including influenza epidemics, vaccine exchange and so on. Since the Nabuja Protocol does not require the change of existing legislation, for Bulgaria the issue would be resolved in this way. The legal definition of the way the benefits, size, type of material and intangible benefits derived from the use of genetic resources are to be shared. Following the ratification of the Nabuya Protocol, Bulgaria should establish an effective and effective mechanism to implement its provisions, as well as to exercise control over this activity. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 17 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u148	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The representatives of BSP left Bulgaria supported the bill and we will support it in the hall. I am only sorry that this Bill has not been assigned to the Committee on Agriculture and Food because of the fact that a significant part of the ratified Nabuya Protocol concerns genetic resources, both plant genetic resources and livestock resources. There are a lot of problems and issues that will not be solved only by ratification of the Nagoya Protocol. We support ratification at least because of the importance of genetic resources. They are the basis for the development of modern agriculture and for the sustainability of this agriculture, because they are the foundation and the creation of future varieties. All that happens with climate change, what is posed as a challenge in every country of the European Union, not only in Bulgaria, in order to be resolved in some period of time and to find solutions to the issues, it is necessary to use these genetic resources that each country has. A recent expert group has been established in the European Union to develop measures for the implementation of the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and equal distribution of their benefits. Bulgaria also has a representative in this organisation and in this working group, as one of the objectives of the working group is to coordinate the activities of the European Environment Commission in connection with the implementation of the Nagoya Protocol, access to genetic resources and to facilitate cooperation between countries. In essence, the Nagoya Protocol provides only one legal framework that allows countries to regulate access to their genetic resources and, at the same time, decide under what conditions this access will take place and, most importantly, what benefits they will receive. The benefits obtained in exchange for access to genetic resources can be measured differently. They can be cash, they can be non-money. This is a question that will yet be clarified, as well as what it means to benefit from the use of a particular genetic resource. The Nabuja Protocol is considered to be the first international document to recognise that local populations, local communities are entitled to benefits from the resources acquired on their lands and knowledge they have on their use. One way to achieve this goal is transparency and awareness of each of the Parties in terms of what the opportunities of each individual country are and how they store their genetic resources. This is achieved at this stage by an online information exchange platform which is a positive step towards the implementation of the Nagoya Protocol. I would like to draw attention to the protocol of art. 10, where questions about the benefits of genetic resources are treated. At the moment, unfortunately, no mechanism has been developed to determine how these benefits will be assessed. Grants each Member State the right to develop its own rules and to apply them in its territory. For example, a country such as Norway has such rules, although there are almost no genetic resources, but it finances extremely much the exchange of genetic resources between countries in order to fill its genbank. In Bulgaria, the only official structure that preserves genetic resources is the Institute for the Development of Genetic Resources in Sadovo. This is an Institute with 120 years of history, which has a Genbank, which has 60 thousand specimens, of which 57 thousand have long been maintained in the collection of the Institute in Sadovo, and at this time 3000 are in a situation to be exchanged between the Member States. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that after 2009, the Institute in Sadovo has not received absolutely no means to maintain this rich collection, one of the richest in Europe, given the location of Bulgaria, where these genetic resources are likely to increase. That is why, in our view, for Bulgaria, things are forthcoming and must still be resolved, first of all, the issue of financing the possibility and the need for these resources to increase and remain for future generations, but at the same time in this regard it is necessary to create more opportunities for coordination and cooperation between institutions. At this stage, ratification of the Nagoya Protocol will not give us that confidence. There is yet an extremely huge work to be done by the Bulgarian country, the Bulgarian government, so that ratification of this Protocol can be an effective mechanism for preserving the genetic resources in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other MPs who would like to speak? I won't. We're closing the debate. We're going into voting mode. I put to the first vote a bill ratifying the Nabuya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and equal distribution of the benefits arising from their use to the Convention on Biological Diversity, No 602-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2016. Abort the vote, there is no quorum in this Chamber. Name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali-here. Ayhan Ahmed Etem is absent. Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev- absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov-- here. Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Ana Georgieva Barakova- here Angel Petrov Naydenov- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova- missing Anton Angelov Dolapchiev- here Antony Antonyev Trenchev- absent Atanas Zafirov- Zafirov is absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov- here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov here Boyka Grozeva Marinska- here Boris Borisov Stanimirov- absent Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov- here Borislav Mihailov Borisov- absent Borislav Rajchov Milanov- absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev- absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov- absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- absent Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Velizar Penkov Enchev- here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova- here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov- absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov- absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Volen Nikolov Siderov- absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Simeonova Georgieva- here Georg Danylov Georgiev- absent Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev- absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov- absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov- absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev- here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- absent Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov- absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov- absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov- here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov-- here. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova- here Dimitar Angelov Gorov- absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov- here Dimitar Krumov Tanev- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov- absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov- absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov- here Doncho Spasov Baxanov- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa- absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Emil Dimitrov Reinov- here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Erdingh Ismail Hajrula- absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov- here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov- here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Penkov Ivanov- absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov- here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- here Ilian Sashov Todorov- here Iliya Yankov Iliev- here Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova- absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov- absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin is absent. Cyril Dobrev Dobrev- here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev- absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev- here Kircho Georgiev Karagyozov- here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Korman Yakubov Ismailov- absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov- absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov- here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov- absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan is absent. Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev- absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva- here Mariana Georgieva Todorova- missing Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- absent Method Borisov Andreev- here Mehmet Umer Ataman here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova- here Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Mithat Sabri Metin is missing Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov- absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov- absent Musa Cemal Palev here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed is absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev- absent Nevin Halil Hassan- absent. Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Neno Hristov Vlaikov- here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Petar Vladislavov Slavov- absent Petar Georgiev Kadiev- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Petar Ivanov Petrov- here Petar Kostadinov Petrov- here Petar Pandushev Chobanov- absent Peter Hristov Bekov- here Petar Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova- absent Radan Milenov Kanev- absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Petrov Petrov- here Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Dinev Zhelev- absent Rumen Ivanov- here Rumen Marinov Yonchev- absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin is missing Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev- absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov- here Svilen Filipov Ivanov- here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova- here Slavi Penchev Binev- absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- here Snezana Georgieva Dukova- here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov- here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov- absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov- here Stefan Ivanov Dedev- here Stefan Lambov Danailov- here Stefan Stynov Zhelev- here Stephanie Mihneva Mihaylova- here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova- here Tasko Mihailov Ermenkov- here Teodora Radkova Georgieva- absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev- here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova- here Philip Stefanov Popov here Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Hristian Radev Mitev- here Hristo Georgiev Gajev- absent Hristo Georgiev Todorov- absent Hristo Grudev Grudev here. Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov- absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov- here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska- here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev- here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev- here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush is absent Julian Krastev Angelov - absent Yavor Bozhilov Notev- here Yavor Iliev Haytov- here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov- absent Ianko Alexandrov Iankov- absent In addition entered and enrolled MPs who are in the hall: Atanas Zafirov, Valeri Simeonov, Alexander Metodiev, Gunai Husmen, Borislav Milanov, Volen Siderov, Jayhan Ibryamov, Georgi Kuchukov, Manuil Manev, Mariana Todorova, Lubomir Vladimirov, Dimitar Boychev, Anna Alexandrova, Krasimir Yankov, Menda Stoyanova and Tsvetan Tsvetanov. There's a Quorum, we can move on. I put to the vote a bill ratifying the Nabuya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and equal distribution of the benefits arising from their use to the Convention on Biological Diversity, No 602-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 May 2016, supported by committees. 90 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I am doing a procedure for the second vote of the Nabuya Protocol, because there were no opinions against it, there were no proposals for change, and there cannot be, because it is an international treaty, it is ratification. For this reason, I also propose to vote at second reading in today's sitting, the Nabuya Protocol.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u152	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural motion for a vote at second reading. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equal distribution of benefits arising from their use to the Convention on Biological Diversity A single member. Ratifying the Nabuya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and Fair and Equal Distribution of Benefits arising from Their Use to the Convention on Biological Diversity, signed on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria on 23 June 2011 Final provision The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u154	I'm opening the debate. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to speak? I can't see. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote at second reading the Law on ratification of the Nabuya Protocol. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The law has also been passed in a second vote. Moving on to the next point in our weekly program: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION TO PROTECT DISCRIMINATION FOR 2015 The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. Her report will introduce us to her chairman Mr. Krasimir Velchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I would like to make a procedure for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of Mrs. Assoc. Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva, Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u156	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the plenary of the President of the Commission for protection against discrimination. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. Please, the Quaestors, invite Assoc. Jumalieva to take the guest seat. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u157	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a report on the Commission's action on protection against discrimination for 2015, No 620-00-8 submitted by the Commission for protection against discrimination on 31 March 2016. At a regular meeting held on 12 May 2016, the Commission on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed a Report on the activities of the Commission on Protection against Discrimination for 2015, No 620-00-8 submitted by the Commission on 31 March 2016. The meeting was attended by Assoc. Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva, Chairman of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, Mr. Baki Husseinov, Vice-President of the Commission, and representatives of NGOs. The report on the activity of the 2015 Commission was presented by the President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva, who presented in summary the most important accents in it. The report presents the results achieved in the work of the committee during the year, traditionally focusing on the work of the jurors, taking into account the activities of the specialized and general administration and setting some of the most important objectives. The total number of complaints, alerts and inquiries lodged for 2015 is 995. The prevailing complaints and signals during the reporting period are linked to discrimination on different social signs. Employment, disability, age. The number of complaints about personal and social status, ethnicity and faith is also serious. In the past year on complaints and signals of natural and legal persons are formed 474 cases, according to art. 50 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination. In the Commission's report, according to art. 40, para. 5 of the law is included information about the activities of each of its permanent specialized groups. One of the Commission's most important functions is the possibility of self-selling and its preventive function. Ms. Dzhumalieva said that they have not yet been able to reveal the Commission's 26 regional representations due to lack of sufficient financial resources. At present, 24 regional offices of the Commission have been opened, with no employees assigned to three of them due to a lack of funds for their maintenance. The Commission for Protection against Discrimination has strengthened its cooperation and cooperation with the Council of Ministers, ministries and NGOs. Members of the Commission and its staff shall participate in extremely many working groups at national and international level. During the discussion, MPs expressed their views on the report and asked questions to the President of the Commission Mrs. Evgenia Alexieva, Vice-President of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights, asked whether the increase in the Commission's 2016 budget will have a positive effect and will solve the problem with the Commission's regional offices this year. Mr. Julian Angelov expressed his opinion that the report should not be accepted because according to the parliamentary group of the Patriotic Front, the Commission is an ineffective body and its decisions are rejected by the court. The report lacks transparency about the Commission's financial expenditure. Mr. Jayhan Ibryamov said that the Commission report did not pay particular attention and found no place for the problem of secession. He quoted specific cases in which the rights of Bulgarian citizens are seriously affected and expressed his opinion that the Commission should address itself in such cases and provide information about them. The questions asked and the comments expressed answered Assoc. Anna Dzhumalieva and Mr. Baki Husseinov. To the question of regional representations, Mrs. Dzhumalieva replied that for them as an institution, the existence of regional representations is extremely important. This is one of the things with which the Commission is unique across Europe compared to other related institutions. She said that the increase in their 2016 budget will help to a certain extent, but a large part of these funds are not laid down in paragraph "Work salary" and in paragraph "Sustainability" and this leads to the inability to provide salaries for regional representatives. On the question of the financial statement and the opaqueness of the Commission's expenditure, it stated that their report contained a financial part. The Commission's website shall always upload the accounts and checks that have been carried out, as well as the certified protocols by the Court of Auditors. The Commission, as a budgetary organisation, shall be subject to financial review by the Court of Auditors each year, and the financial statements shall be certified without observations. On the question of how many Commission decisions which were appealed before the administrative courts were annulled, the President of the Commission stated that 60% were confirmed in percentage terms and only 40% were rejected or returned for a new hearing. In the expressed opinion of the National Representative Julian Angelov that the Commission is an ineffective state body, she replied that the Commission for Protection against Discrimination is accredited as a national human rights authority and our country should be proud that there is such a Commission. Mr. Baki Hüseyin answered the question asked about the Commission's self-examination. He said that the members of the Commission constantly refer to themselves in various cases that violate the rights of Bulgarian citizens. Fathers as a mistake that one of the Commission's most important functions did not find a place in its report due to its volume, but made a commitment in the following reports to separate a special place of self-sacre of the Commission and its results. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, No 620-00-8, submitted by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination on 31 March 2016. The Commission also proposes a draft decision to be debated and adopted by the National Assembly. So, Mr. Chairman, allow me to read the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u158	Yes, which I'm asking you to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u159	Project! DECISION on the 2015 Anti-Discrimination Commission Activity Survey The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 40, para. 5 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Commission's activities for protection against discrimination for 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Before I open the debate, dear Assoc. Jumalieva, according to our regulations you have the right to take the floor. If you'd like to raise your hand, please give a sign. I'm opening the debate on the item on the agenda. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. For your part, would you like to say something? No. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote a Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2015, No 620-00-8 submitted by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination on 31 March 2016. The report on the Commission's activities is supported by the Commission on Religions and Human Rights. Vote 75 MPs: 69, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: Reporting on the implementation of the Privatization and Post-Acquittal Control Process in 2014 and on the implementation of the Privatization Process and the follow-up of the Privatization Process (JANUARY 1) - 30 June 2015. The first report is from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, please come in and brief us on the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. [[Reply from the National Representative Petar Kanev.]] Do the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u161	Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2, please let us vote for admission to the House of Mitko Simeonov, Deputy Executive Director of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency, and of Mikhail Vladov, member of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u162	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. Voting regime for admission to the Chamber. [[Noise and lines.]] Abort the vote, declare a result. [[(Replyes: Revoting!]] It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u163	Colleagues, re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u164	Is there a reverse opinion on the re-voting proposal made? I won't. Please, a voting regime for admission in the Chamber of the Vice-President of the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency and the member of the Supervisory Board, as Mr. Kanev proposed. Vote 77 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to take their assigned seats. Mr. Kanev, please come in for the report on the first reporting period.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u165	♪ I can't believe on the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Review in 2014, No 504-00-17 submitted by the Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control on 25 March 2015. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting on 1 June 2016 examined and discussed the Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in 2014, No 504-00-17, submitted by the Supervisory Board of the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency. The meeting was attended by Emil Karanikolov, Executive Director of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency and representatives of NGOs. The report was presented by Emil Karanikolov. In 2014, the activities of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency (the Agency) took place in a complex situation, both for the office itself and for the country. The Council of Ministers adopted two decisions to reduce staff numbers by 40 people and move the administration to a new address. The construction of the office by redistribution of some of the activities, according to the adopted amendments to the Agency's Rules of Procedure, as well as the accommodation process in the new building, affected the results of privatisation and post-privatization control activities during the year. External factors which reflected the final result of the Agency's work during the year were the holding of parliamentary elections and the related delay or delay of certain privatisation procedures at the request of the portfolio ministries. As a result of the cumulative impact of the factors listed above, the Agency shall take into account delays in privatisation and post-privatization control activities in 2014. All preparatory activities related to the sale of 76 privatisation sites were carried out during the same period. They've been accepted 34pc. legal analyses, information memorandums and privatization assessments for sites of the privatization resource. 43 sites are prepared and offered for privatisation sale in public auctions and 7 privatisation transactions are carried out. Two centralized public tenders were made, which were offered for sale packages of shares of 31 companies under which 2 transactions with revenues of BGN 2 488 were made. In parallel, the Agency has carried out marketing events in relation to the privatisation procedures of 27 other sites. The Agency shall report agreed payments of BGN 1 522 488, including compensatory instruments of BGN 2 488 at nominal value. The main reasons for the small number of privatisation sales remain: the lack of investor interest; the trend of reduced investment activity in the country; delay or delay in privatisation procedures at the request of the portfolio offices; the characteristics and the deterioration of the financial and economic situation of the proposed sites. The resources of sites to be privatized as of 31 December 2014 are composed of 17 companies with over 50 percent State participation, 5 pcs. Parts and 70 minority shares/units owned by the State in the capital of commercial companies. The resource also includes 83 properties of private state property offered for sale by different district managers and 5 sites representing shares/shares owned by commercial companies with more than 50 percent state participation. Another 27 packages with minority state participation in capital are from commercial companies which were not reregistered on 1 January 2012, under the Commercial Register Act. The activity of monitoring the implementation of the parameters of the concluded privatisation contracts is specified by analysed 123 reports under 79 privatisation contracts and drawn up 102 pcs. Notifications to buyers of privatisation contracts for the submission of all the reporting documents necessary to demonstrate the performance of the contract commitments for the previous year. A procedural representation of 248 executive cases took place in 2014. At the Agency's account, payments have been made on the entry into force of judgment decisions of 20 pcs. executive cases. As a result of the post-privatization control activity carried out, payments at price and penalties were accepted to the Agency in 2014 as well as at court costs, amounting to BGN 1,381,424. This amount shall include the reimbursements in cases which amount to BGN 66 449 and which do not participate in the total revenue of the Agency. As of 31 December 2014 subject to control regarding the payment of the price are 198 privatisation contracts. The total number of contracts subject to control in respect of various social commitments and other obligations, including the implementation of investment programmes, is 105. For 2014, the Agency reported revenues from privatisation and post-privatization control activities of BGN 2,853 572, representing cash receipts and non-cash funds received from sales. The reported expenditure for 2014 amounted to BGN 3 926 453 or 97.52 per cent of the established cost ceiling. The funds are used for the salaries of the staff, with the contributions due on them, including the benefits paid to the redundant employees, and for the material and technical provision and financing of the privatisation and post-privatization control activities. For the reporting period, the Agency's Supervisory Board has held 15 meetings and adopted 574 decisions. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to take the following decision: Project! DECISION the report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in 2014. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Accepts the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u166	Mr. Kanev, I would like to make a statement: "The Rules for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 22d, para. 1, t. 1 of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control to supplement it as a paragraph before the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u167	I don't mind. I'm sorry. I'm Takes the report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u168	This is the first report for 2014. Please also read the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism in relation to the second decision, which is for the period 1 January Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u169	The second report, which concerns the period 1 January 30 June 2015, is also published in the Official Journal of the European Union. "COMMODITY" on a report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in the period 1 January " 30 June 2015', No 504-00-23, submitted by the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control on 19 November 2015. At its regular meeting on 1 June 2016, the Economic Policy and Tourism Commission examined the report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process during the period 1 January The meeting was attended by Emil Karanikolov, Executive Director of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control and representatives of civil organizations. The report was presented by Emil Karanikolov, who noted that 8 sales procedures were opened during the reporting period, of which 6 private government properties, one separate part of a commercial company and one shareholding. Due to the establishment of ownership of some of the private state property and after withdrawal by the district managers of offers for sale, the procedures for 4 private state property properties have been closed. Three companies are removed from the sites to be privatized as in Annex 1 to art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control are included. Sofia, National Agency "Musica" Ltd., gr. Sofia &amp; "Agency for diplomatic properties in the country" - Ltd., gr. Sofia. In accordance with art. 11, para. 2 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, the Agency prepares a draft amendment and supplement to the list of commercial companies with state participation in capital in the privatisation of which payment with non-cash payment is allowed. The project has been approved by the Agency's Supervisory Board and provides for the removal of 8 companies from the list due to already concluded privatisation transactions or deletion after insolvency or liquidation procedures. For 9 companies there has been a change of names, abbreviations and location, as well as an update of the amount of State participation to be sold with non-cash payment due to a completed process to satisfy restitution claims and changes in the capital of commercial companies. The amount of State participation allowed to be paid by non-cash payment from 10 per cent to 30 per cent of the State participation in the capital of three companies on the list shall be increased. There is also a proposal to include in the list of shares or shares in the capital of 7 new companies in order to attract investor interest in their purchase. As of 30 June 2015, the Agency worked on a resource of 15 majority shares/units representing companies with over 50 percent State participation in capital and 6 shares/shares owned by commercial companies with over 50 percent State participation in capital in other commercial companies. The resource also includes 62 companies with less than 50 per cent state participation in capital, 23 of which have problems hampering their privatisation. Due to restitutional claims and legal cases brought on this occasion, the sale of minority State participation in the capital of 34 companies remains blocked. Of the units owned by commercial companies with more than 50 percent state participation in capital prepared for sale are 6. The Agency is working on a resource of 92 properties of private state property offered for sale by regional managers and heads of state offices, of which 66 already have open privatisation procedures. In the first half of 2015, actions were taken to prepare for the sale of 64 sites.. 14 majority packages and shareholdings, 30 private state property properties, 3 units and 17 minority packages owned by the State in the capital of commercial companies. According to the adopted Work Plan in 2015, the Agency plans to implement the sale of 30 sites. During the half-year, 34 sites are prepared and offered for sale. For the sale of 16 properties, private state ownership and parts of the capital of commercial companies were announced public tenders with apparent bidding. Total agreed payments on the two privatisation sales made during the reporting period amounted to 112 800 BGN. As regards post-privatization control, 46 reports on 36 privatisation contracts have been analysed and finalised. As a result of the post-privatization control activity carried out in the first six months of 2015, payments at a price and penalties of BGN 2 913 668 were accepted to the Agency. The total number of privatisation contracts with outstanding liabilities in respect of payment at a price on 30 June 2015 is 189. The total amount of liabilities by price is 122 957 612 BGN. and USD 60 562 563 including overdue contributions and due interest and penalties. As of 30 June 2015, the contracts with outstanding commitments under investment programmes were two and the expected investments totaled BGN 445 431 430. And $100,500. The total number of contracts subject to control in respect of various social commitments and other obligations, including investment obligations, is 101. A procedural representation has been carried out in 205 cases, of which 174 executive cases and 31 legal proceedings. Total claims of the Agency in enforcement cases and proceedings in which it is a plaintiff amount to approximately 97 million levs (headers, expenses and interest). In view of the characteristics of the collateral entered in favour of the Agency, they are actually collected up to 30 per cent of the amount of claims indicated. The revenue from the Agency's activities during the reporting period amounts to 3 million. Fifty thousand. lv. On the basis of art. 9 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, the costs of privatisation and post-privatization control are carried out through the Agency's budget. The estimated costs for the period amounted to 1 million. 316 thousand. BGN, representing 37% of the established cost ceiling. The funds are used for the salaries of the staff, with the insurance due on them and for the material and technical provision and financing of the privatisation and post-privatization control activities. After the presentation of the report, a vote was held which ended with the following results:.......................... 11 MPs.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes that the National Assembly adopt the following: Project DECISION on the post-privatization and post-privatization control process in the period 1 January 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 22d, para. 1, t. 2 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Reporter for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in the period 1 January 2015 - 30 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u170	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u171	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The ABB Parliamentary Group wished to express its attitude towards the submitted reports for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in 2014 and the first half of 2015. In our opinion, they are well prepared, informative, comprehensive, rich in factual and numerical data. However, from what they have carried out, as well as from the annexes to the accounts, we can draw the relevant conclusions for our national economic and material capital policy. From these conclusions, however, we cannot be calm, honourable Members! The 2014 report deals with significant topics but also contains puzzling data. The importer openly shows that 2014 is the weakest in terms of the privatisation process and post-privatization control over the past six years. For us, however, the prominent reasons are too curious because we find them extremely subjective. Their carrier is the human factor, which means they could also be prevented. According to the report, one of the main reasons for the weak reckoning of what the Agency has done is the decision of the Council of Ministers at the end of 2013 to move its administration to another building. It is precisely leading to disorganization, a reduction in the number of employees by 40%, specifically by 40 units, because it is established that the new building has less space and not because structural changes in administration are necessary. And today is the question: were 40 employees needed because of material circumstances, or were they not necessary for the establishment and functionality of the Privatization Agency? The fact is absurd: it is about a state structure which is created with a corresponding state regulatory act. The privatisation programme has been adopted by the Supervisory Board, has been submitted to the Council of Ministers and voted into the National Assembly with the adoption of the State Budget Act for 2014. But the question of whether the state policy is the privatisation programme of the Agency, approved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, continues to hang, because in the coming months the Programme de facto stops because elections are coming and the caretaker government is not motivated to undertake the responsible procedure, which under the Constitution is his debt. A number of cabinet ministers refuse to hire with participation and stop with direct letters over 95% of the privatization resources, facts that should not be overlooked! The privatisation process shall be restored after November 2014. Why, then, is that clear? There is a new revision of the otherwise adopted Privatization Program, from which separate sites are removed as a law. After all, it is understood from the Father that 76 objects are prepared during the year. If we argue with subsequent numbers, in the otherwise difficult months of 2014, 43 sites were proposed for privatisation, with only seven privatisation procedures being carried out after successful auctions for three properties, two units and two minority packages bringing the Agency 1.5 million. lv. Since the number of sites the Privatization Agency has worked on is relatively high and the number of transaction graduates is too low, the conclusion of an amazingly low efficiency of the state privatisation body is inevitably necessary. The revenue from the activity during the first accounting year significantly gave way to the Agency's maintenance costs and in 2015 slightly exceeded them. However, they are hardly enough for the satisfaction of the participants themselves in the privatisation process. They are not optimistic about the Agency's functional potential and post-privatization control reporting. 102 letters were prepared. Here, however, on privatisation agreements for obtaining information on the performance of duties by letters from new owners, what information is being obtained?! Ninety-three letters were sent to the competent state authorities for documents requirements to demonstrate the fulfilment of commitments under privatisation contracts. This is the source of information about how privatizers perform their obligations under the contracts. Impressive are the figures for the type of revenue from the activities of the Agency for 2014. From privatization procedures Three hundred and seventy thousand. BGN, from post-privatization control lv. Over-costs to secure the Agency's activities on it alone, of 3 million. 900,000. lv. The review of our national privatization policy for 2014 is looking at the one you provided, but failed to restore the working and successful Bulgarian industry, our economy. The negative results discussed above are not a function of the behaviour of the new owners, but of the activities of officials, employees and politicians working under the laws of the state, for its interest for over 20 years. The 2015 report informs us of prepared proposals for the sale of 34 packages, the capital of commercial companies, including private property properties, and minority packages. 34 presence tenders and 19 non-existent were carried out, requiring the summary of the importer that post-privatization controls were stronger than privatisation. In the case of income for the six months of 2 million. 900,000. lv. One million. 700 were voluntarily imported for violations of the privatisation contract by the CEZ Electricity Distributor. The account of 189 established privatisation contracts with outstanding prices of 122 million and 101 contracts with outstanding employment obligations only confirms the above conclusions for the purposes and capabilities of the State representing it and the new owners. And to supplement with another fact our skeptical assessment of the privatisation process, we do not want to pass an interesting text in Annex No 7 to the Reporter, last sentence: The contract for the preparation of legal analysis and privatization assessment for the Market for Fruit, Vegetables and Flowers is closed because of the lack of information from the executive director of the company. And that is what I would ask: is it serious, gentlemen of the Agency's Supervisory Board? I expected to read that you have prepared at least a termination of the management contract of the Director himself. Is the Executive Director's employer aware of what confidants his country's policy conducts? Or we'll say, "So what?" For us from the ABB Parliamentary Group there is no doubt that the report on the privatisation process raises important issues and, together with that, raises concern about the existing serious problems of protection the interests of the state and our people through the conduct of systematic and responsible post-privatization control. We are skeptics about the possibilities for existing and unconvinced authorities to improve the effectiveness of work here in both material and political terms. As the 2015 report informs us, the Agency itself transfers its cases with CEZ to the Ministry of Finance, which we assess as a rational solution, but also as a solution that gives us the need for the National Assembly, with the participation of the government, to take a legislative initiative for a quality new state of work with the residual privatisation fund, to create a system, functioning, responsible and effective post-privatization control. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u172	Any lines to Mr. Ivanov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. Project! DECISION on the 2014 Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Survey The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 22d, para. 1, t. 2 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Reporter for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in 2014 We vote, fellow Members. Vote 80 MPs: 69, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the post-privatization and post-privatization control process in the period 1 January 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 22d, para. 1, t. 2 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Reporter for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in the period 1 January 2015 We vote. Vote 84 MPs: 74, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, I suggest we return to: LEGISLATION FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGETH-AFFECTION In the second reading vote report in the plenary, the proposed text is excluded from the Council of Ministers' draft, with one closing provision with the only one on a proposal from the Commission. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. There is no possibility for such an addition since it has not been made in the appropriate order between first and second readings and the vote at first and second is held in a plenary sitting. I therefore propose to your attention the Import Bill for a second vote, which reads: THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Nagoya Protocol on access to genetic resources and the fair and equal distribution of benefits arising from their use to the Convention on Biological Diversity A single member. Ratifying the Nabuya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and Fair and Equal Distribution of Benefits arising from Their Use to the Convention on Biological Diversity, signed on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria on 23 June 2011 [[Reply.]] In the report, the Commission has put in place a final provision that does not correspond to the draft Council of Ministers, but to texts that are voted on in a plenary session at the same time on the first and second, the bill must be supported entirely by an importer without a creative initiative by the Members of the National Assembly to indicate a different moment for the entry into force of the Law in the case of ratification. We vote. Vote 80 MPs: 78, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'm making a procedural proposal. Point 9 of our weekly programme is in line with the 2014 Administrative Monitoring Report on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), with an importer from the Council of Ministers. The 2015 Monitoring Report is currently being distributed and discussed by the Standing Committees. I believe that it is appropriate to hold a joint debate, as well as on the recent end of the post-privatization control point at the same time as the 2014 and 2015 accounts, which is why I propose that we postpone this item from the weekly programme in order to look at the two reports next week in a joint debate. We vote. Vote 82 MPs: 79, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Because y. 10 is fixed as point one for tomorrow Friday, June 17th, we will now proceed with: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE DEPRECTION LAW. Report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order for a second vote. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u173	Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister General, Commissioner General Nikolay Nikolov, Director of the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population, Alexander Jartov Director of the Directorate for Critical Infrastructure, Prevention and Control at the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population and Peter Toshkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u174	Colleagues, voting regime for admission to the guest room by the Ministry of Interior. Vote 71 MPs: for 69, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u175	The Law on the Protection of Disasters is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Protection of Disasters. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u176	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law, paragraphs 1 and 2, by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u177	According to § 3 there is a proposal made by Ivan Valentinov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u178	We vote § 3. 70 MPs voted: 69, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u179	A proposal was made by the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Manol Genov and Dora Yankova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Svetoslav Belemezov, not supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to reject it. The proposal is as follows: In § 4 new Art. 6a-Art. 6f shall be created: A new Article 6 shall be added with the following content: Art. 6f. (New) (1). All other types of risks and specific risks other than those mentioned in the Ordinance under art. 6, para. 2, their examination, examination, analysis, evaluation and mapping shall be carried out with expertise on the European Union directives and through existing methodologies. (2) The annual plans for the implementation of the National Programme for Disaster Risk Reduction shall define the legal entities which shall assign the expertise under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Proposal by Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs under § 4. The proposal is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 4: ............................................ Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 6a-6e: Art. 6a. (1) The planning of disaster risk reduction shall be carried out at national, regional and municipal level. (2) The planning shall cover the development and update of: 1. a national disaster risk reduction strategy; 2. a national disaster risk reduction programme; 3. sectoral and regional programmes related to disaster risk reduction; 4. Regional disaster risk mitigation programmes; 5. Municipal programs to reduce the risk of disasters. (3) The Council referred to in art. 62, para. 3 provide guidance on the development and implementation of the programmes under para. 2, p. 4 and 5. Art. 6b. (1) The national disaster risk reduction strategy shall determine: 1. analysis of the environment; 2. analysis of the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats; 3. the strategic objectives for reducing the risk of disasters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. identifying measures to achieve the objectives set; 5. measurable indicators for the implementation of the measures under point 5. 4; 6. a plan of action; 7. a mechanism for monitoring and monitoring the implementation of the national strategy. (2) The draft National Disaster Risk Reduction Strategy shall be published for public discussion on the website of the Council of Ministers for a period of one month. (3) Within one month after the expiry of the term under para. 2 The Minister of Interior submitted the National Strategy to reduce the risk of disasters for adoption by the Council of Ministers. (4) The national disaster risk reduction strategy shall have a deadline for execution not less than 10 years. (5) On a proposal from the Minister of Interior by a decision of the Council of Ministers, the National Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction may be amended or repealed, following the procedure under para. 2 and para. 3. Art. 6c. (1) In order to meet the objectives of the National Disaster Risk Reduction Strategy, a National Disaster Risk Reduction Programme shall be developed with a duration of five years, which shall contain: 1. the strategic objectives; 2. the operational objectives; 3. activities for the implementation of the operational objectives. (2) The draft of the National Disaster Risk Reduction Programme shall be published for public discussion on the website of the Council of Ministers for a period of one month. (3) Within one month after the expiry of the term under para. 2 The Minister of Interior submitted the National Programme for Disaster Risk Reduction for adoption by the Council of Ministers. (4) On a proposal from the Minister of Interior by a decision of the Council of Ministers may be amended or repealed the National Programme for Disaster Risk Reduction, following the procedure under para. Two and three. (5) Annual plans shall be adopted for the implementation of the National Disaster Risk Reduction Programme. (6) The plans under para. 5 must contain: 1. operational objectives; 2. activities; 3. budget; 4. period of implementation; 5. expected results; 6. indicators of performance; 7. Responsible Institutions. (7) The financing of the activities under para. 6, p. 2 shall be carried out within the approved budget of the competent authorities and other sources of funding. (8) The Minister of Interior shall submit to the Council of Ministers annually by June a report on priority disaster risk mitigation activities for which funding is required in the following calendar year. Art. Six years. (1) In order to meet the objectives of the National Disaster Risk Reduction Programme and in relation to reducing the risks identified by the Regional Disaster Protection Plan, regional disaster risk mitigation programmes containing: 1. the operational objectives; 2. activities for the implementation of the operational objectives. (2) The draft regional disaster risk reduction programme shall be published for public consultation on the website of the regional administration concerned for a period of one month. (3) Within one month after the expiry of the term under para. 2 The district governor shall submit the regional disaster risk reduction programme for adoption by the Council under art. 62, para. 3. (4) On a proposal from the governor, the regional disaster risk reduction programme may be amended or cancelled, following the procedure under para. Two and three. (5) Annual plans shall be adopted to implement the regional disaster risk reduction programme. (6) The plans under para. 5 must contain: 1. operational objectives; 2. activities; 3. budget; 4. period of implementation; 5. expected results; 6. indicators of performance; 7. Responsible Institutions. (7) The financing of the activities under para. 6, p. 2 shall be carried out within the approved budget of the competent authorities and other sources of funding. (8) The Chairman of the Council under art. 64a, para. 1 year to May shall submit to the Council under art. 62, para. 3 a report on priority disaster risk mitigation activities for which funding is required in the following calendar year. Art. 6e. (1) In order to meet the objectives of the regional disaster risk reduction programme and in relation to reducing the risks identified by the municipal disaster protection plan, municipal disaster risk mitigation programmes containing: 1. the operational objectives; 2. the activities for the implementation of the operational objectives. (2) The draft municipal disaster risk reduction programme shall be published for public consultation on the website of the municipal administration concerned for a period of one month. (3) Within one month after the expiry of the term under para. 2 The mayor of the municipality shall submit the municipal program to reduce the risk of disasters for coordination by the council under art. 64a, para. 1, then offered it for admission by the municipal council. (4) On a proposal from the mayor of the municipality, the municipal programme for disaster risk reduction may be amended or cancelled, following the procedure under para. Two and three. (5) Annual plans shall be adopted to implement the municipal disaster risk reduction programme. (6) The plans under para. 5 must contain: 1. operational objectives; 2. activities; 3. budget; 4. period of implementation; 5. expected results; 6. indicators of performance; 7. Responsible Institutions. (7) The financing of the activities under para. 6, p. 2 shall be carried out within the approved budget of the competent authorities and other sources of funding. (8) The Chairman of the Council under art. 65a, para. 1 year to April shall submit to the Council under art. 64a, para. 1 report on priority disaster risk mitigation activities for which funding is needed in the following calendar year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u180	Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any MPs who wish to speak under § 4 for the establishment of Articles 6a to 6e? I can't see. Mr. Belemezov, you have a proposal. Will you protect him? There are no people who want to participate in the debate. It's closed. First, I must put to the vote Mr. Svetoslav Belemezov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 75 MPs: 13 against 14, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 4 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: 70 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u181	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u182	I put to the vote paragraphs 5 to 8 including, supported by the Commission, entirely by importer. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u183	Under § 8 there is a proposal made by the MP Desislava Atanasova and a group that has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Plamen Manushev, Hristo Gazhev and Valentin Radev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 2 the words of the executive authority shall be replaced by the words referred to in para. 1's and 1's, and 1's,
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u184	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new § 9 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u185	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15. Under § 16 there is a motion made which has been withdrawn. The Commission supports the text of the importer for a§ 15, which becomes § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-16.u186	Are there any speeches on the Commission's fully supported import texts? I won't. We are voting for anbloc paragraphs 9 to 15 by importer, including, respectively, new numbering, otherwise fully supported in their version, from 10 to 16, including on the Commission's report. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Honourable Members, there are less than three minutes left until the end of our scheduled work for today. Since the next text under § 17 is longer, here we will interrupt the second reading of the Bill. Tomorrow, a regular meeting with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
