ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, yesterday, on 8 September, it was received and distributed to the MPs A general draft of the bills for amendment and supplement of the Law on excises and tax warehouses adopted on the first vote on 27 July 2016. The project was prepared by the Committee on Budget and Finance on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. On 7 September 2016 the National Assembly received a report on the implementation of the programming budget and a reference on the expenditure incurred on the policy areas and programmes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the half-year of 2016. By my letter the materials are available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy, as well as every MP has the opportunity to get acquainted with them in the Library of the National Assembly. We continue with the planned acts under our weekly programme. Coming up next: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE APPLICATION OF MEASURES AGAINST MARKET NEIGHBOURHOODS WITH FINANCIAL OPERATIONS. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The reports of the leading Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds are presented. There is no report or opinion from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for a procedure to allow Mr. Feizy Bekir Deputy Minister of Finance; Mr. Vladimir Savov Member of the Commission, exercising powers of Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission; Mrs. Tsvetinka Mihailova, Elena Petrova and Anna Antonova, Directors in the Directorate of the Ministry of Finance and Financial Supervision Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u3	We are voting on Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal for admission of executive representatives in the discussion of this bill. They voted 114 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. We're listening to the report, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u4	♪ I can't believe on a bill implementing measures against market abuse of financial instruments, No 602-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 July 2016. At a meeting held on 21 July 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance Karina Karaivanova Deputy Minister; Tsvetanka Mihailova Director of the Department of Finance and Anna Andonova Expert in the same Directorate; of the Financial Supervision Commission Vladimir Savov Member of the Commission and implementing the powers of Vice-President of the Commission in charge of the management of the investment activity. The bill was presented by Ms. Karaivanova. The bill repealed the current Law against market abuse of financial instruments because of the repeal of Directive 2003/6/EC on insider trading and market manipulation introduced by it in Bulgarian legislation. Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 establishes a new regulatory framework for insider dealing, unlawful disclosure of inside information and market manipulation, which is binding and directly applicable to Member States as of 3 July 2016. The bill provides: 1. The introduction of measures for the implementation of the new regulation on market abuse........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In the Draft Law, forced administrative measures and administrative-criminal provisions are introduced in line with the maximum amounts of fines and penalty payments provided for in the regulation. 2. The introduction of the provisions of Commission Directive (EU) 2015/2392 implementing the regulation on market abuse. The Directive lays down the rules to be complied with in the implementation of the obligations under the Regulation on the communication of infringements of its requirements. It also introduces measures to protect persons working under an employment contract who have reported such violations, including the protection of their personal data. 3. Amendments to the Act on the activity of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings introducing the requirements of Directive 2014/91/EU, namely: - additional requirements shall be introduced for depositories of collective investment schemes, as well as provisions aimed at clarifying their liability in the event of the loss of assets of collective investment schemes under their custody or in the event of improper performance of their depositary functions; - the assumptions and conditions for the delegation of obligations by the depositary to a third party are laid down; - additional requirements are set up for remuneration policies that management companies should adopt and implement; - forced administrative measures and administrative penalties have been amended in accordance with the requirements of the Directive, which aims to ensure the implementation of horizontal policies with regard to sanctions and measures in the financial services sector by overcoming the differences between the levels of monetary penalties in individual Member States. 4. Changes that do not arise from an obligation to transpose European Union legislation but aim to develop the investment sector by providing opportunities that are characteristic of collective investment schemes in other European countries, such as the possibility of creating collective investment schemes where the recording of shares of them takes place against financial instruments and not just against monetary contributions. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:................................ 11 MPs.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a bill implementing measures against market abuse of financial instruments, No 602-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Tanchev? Svetlin Tanchev is absent. [[Noise and lines.]] If there is no one from your Commission to read the reports, they will simply not be read and presented. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on a bill implementing measures against market abuse of financial instruments, No 602-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 July 2016. At its regular meeting held on 13 July 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the bill implementing measures against market abuse of financial instruments submitted by the Council of Ministers. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Ms. Karina Karaivanova Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihailova Director of the Directorate of the Financial Markets and Mrs. Elena Petrova State Expert in the same Directorate. This bill proposes implementing measures for Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on market abuse and repealing Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directives 2003/124/EC, 2003/125/EC and 2004/72/EC. The above Regulation aims to create a single and stable legal framework to reduce the regulatory complexity and costs of companies in respect of compliance with the regulations and to improve competition between them by preventing differences in their national requirements. The adoption of a completely new law is necessary in connection with the annulment of Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2003 relating to insider trading and market manipulation and introduced in Bulgarian legislation the Law against market abuse of financial instruments. Chapter two, third and fourth thereof should be repealed and the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 should apply instead. In addition, it aims to transpose into our legislation the provisions of Commission Implementing Directive (EU) 2015/2392 of 17 December 2015 on Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the notification to competent authorities of actual or potential infringements of that Regulation. It should be borne in mind that the period for transposition of Directive 2015/2392 expired on 3 July 2016. An amendment to the Act on the activity of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings introducing the requirements of Directive 2014/91/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2014 amending Directive 2009/61/EU on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities with regard to the functions deposited, remuneration policy and penalties is also envisaged. Last but not least, the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law provide for the annulment of the current Law against market abuse of financial instruments, in accordance with art. 39 of Regulation (EU) No 596/2014. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 11 votes for the European Parliament and 1 vote to abstention the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill implementing measures against market abuse of financial instruments, No 602-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u7	Thank you, Mr. Tashkov. The debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? I don't see anyone who wants to discuss it. The debate is closed, the vote is pending. I put to the first vote the bill implementing measures against market abuse of financial instruments, No 602-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 July 2016. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted unanimously in the first vote. Next item: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE MEMORANDUM FOR THE USE OF THE TRANSPARENT-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCIOUSLY-COMMERCIAL-COMMERCE-COMMERCE-COMMERCE-COMMERCE-COMMERCE (IPPI-II) 2014TS16I5WC005between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of the Republic of TURATION. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum for the Implementation of a Programme for Cross-border Cooperation "INTERREG" "IPP Bulgaria" "Turkey 2014 " 2020" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, No 602-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 21 July 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation of the Cross-border Cooperation Programme Ms. Denitsa Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who presented the draft on behalf of the importer, and Ms. Maria Duzova, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Territorial Cooperation. The cross-border cooperation programme "INTERREG" "IPP Bulgaria" "Turkish Republic 2014 "2020" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance was approved by Decision of the European Commission C(2015)5280 of 22 July 2015. The Memorandum was signed by the Bulgarian side on 19 February 2016 and the Republic of Turkey on 28 March 2016. The Memorandum ensures the full participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Cross-border Cooperation Programme with the Republic of Turkey, defining the powers of the authorities responsible for the effective management and implementation of the Programme in accordance with the commitments made by our country. The Memorandum shall consist of the following chapters: general provisions concerning the subject-matter of the Programme, administrative provisions concerning institutions involved in the management and implementation of the Programme, implementation where the relevant procedures are specified The MPs spoke in favour of the proposed Draft Law, expressing confidence that the projects that will be implemented in the implementation of the Programme will support the development and bilateral good neighbourly relations of municipalities from the border regions of both countries. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 11 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... PRESENT CECCA TSACHEVA: Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. We will now hear a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u9	Thank you, Madam President. If I may, I would like to propose two procedures for extending the deadline by 3 weeks first under the general bill of the first vote adopted on 27 July. 2016 Draft Laws amending and supplementing the Law on excises and tax warehouses, No 554-01-184, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 3 December 2015, No 654-01-10, submitted by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 3 February 2016, and No 654-01-57, submitted by Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2016, drawn up on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and to be extended by 3 weeks the deadline for proposals under the VAT Act No 654-01-49, submitted by Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov on 7 April 2016, adopted at the first vote on 7 September 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u10	A reverse opinion? I won't. Anblok, I put to the vote the proposal for a three-week extension of the proposals between the first and second reading of the two bills, the first in the General Report of the Law on excise duty and tax warehouses, the second in relation to the VAT Act. They voted 111 MPs: 109, against 2, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted. We are listening to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the ratification under discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u11	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum for the Implementation of a Cross-border Cooperation Programme At a regular meeting held on 13 July 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum on the Implementation of a Programme for Cross-border Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, No 602-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 July 2016. The document with importer Council of Ministers was presented by Mrs. Denitsa Nikolova "Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works." The Memorandum for the Implementation of the Cross-border Cooperation Programme "INTERREG" "IPP Bulgaria" "Turkish Republic 2014 " 2020" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) CCI 2014TC16I5CB005 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey was signed for the Republic of Bulgaria on 19 February 2016 and for the Republic of Turkey on 28 March 2016. It is envisaged obligations for the Republic of Bulgaria as a host country with regard to the overall provision of NFIU for the time of its deployment in the country, which is essentially taking on a lasting financial commitment by the Bulgarian country, so it is necessary to ratify the Memorandum on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 16 votes for the implementation of the Programme for Cross-Border Cooperation "InTERREG" and 3 abstentions, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Law on the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the Programme for Cross-Border Cooperation "InTERREG" "IPP Bulgaria" "Supporting Bulgaria 2014 " 2020" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) CCI 2014TC16I5CB005 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, No 602-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u12	The next report belongs to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u13	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote Subject: Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation At its meeting, held on 6 July 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation "INTERREG" "IPP Bulgaria" "Turkish Republic 2014 " 2020" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) SSII 2014TS16I5W005 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, No 602-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 July 2016. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Maria Duzova, Director-General of the Directorate-General, Management of Territorial Cooperation and Public Works at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which presented the Law. By Decision No 653 of the Council of Ministers of 18 September, 2014 The Republic of Bulgaria agreed with the content of the Cross-border Cooperation Programme The programme was approved by Decision of the European Commission C/2015/5280 of 22 July 2015. The Memorandum for the Implementation of the Programme between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey was signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 19 February 2016 and the Republic of Turkey on 28 March 2016. The Memorandum consists of the following chapters The relevant procedures are laid down for selection of operations, negotiation, tender procedures, relevant financial provisions and final ones. On the bill was expressed support by the MPs, as a statement made by the national representative Emil Dimitrov. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for the European Parliament, without abstention and 2 votes, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on the ratification of a Memorandum for the Implementation of a Programme for Cross-border Cooperation
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u14	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mrs. Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u15	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme "Interreg" "IPP Bulgaria" "Turkish Republic 2014 " 2020" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) CCI 2014TC16I5CB005 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, No 602-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 July 2016. At its meeting held on 13 July 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-Border Cooperation Programme "Interreg" "IPP Bulgaria" "Turkey 2014 " 2020" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) CCI 2014TC16I5CB005 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The following representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works took part in the Commission meeting: Ms. Denitsa Nikolova, Deputy Minister, and Ms. Maria Duzova, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Territorial Cooperation. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the aforementioned Memorandum for the implementation of the Interreg Cross-border Cooperation Programme. This Memorandum lays down the general rules for the management and implementation of the Cross-border Cooperation Programme, as well as the powers of the bodies of the Programme. It is approved by Decision of the European Commission C(2015) 5280 of 22 July 2015. It should be borne in mind that the Republic of Bulgaria and the Commission are responsible for the management and control of the Programme as provided for in Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 and Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 1268/2012 and Regulation (EU) No 447/2014. The above Memorandum includes 5 chapters, including: "General provisions', "Administrative provisions', "Administrative provisions', "Execution', "Financial provisions and control', as well as "Concluding provisions'. The Managing Authority of the Program is the Directorate-General for Territorial Cooperation (CEO) at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Ministry of Affairs of the European Union of the Republic of Turkey shall act as National Authority. The certification body is the National Fund Directorate in the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Audit Authority has been designated the Executive Agency. In addition, the ratification of the Memorandum by the National Assembly will contribute to the implementation of our country's commitments under the abovementioned Cross-border Cooperation Programme. In view of the above and as a result of the vote being taken, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposes by 10 votes for the European Parliament and 2 votes abstentions to adopt in the first vote the Law on the ratification of the Memorandum on the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme, Bulgaria "Interreg" IPP Bulgaria "Turkey 2014 " 2020" under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) CCI 2014TC16I5CB005 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, No 602-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. A final report from the Foreign Policy Committee is next. Mrs. Grozdanova will present it to us. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u17	Dear colleagues, the report is in summary! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum for the Implementation of a Cross-border Cooperation Programme At a meeting held on 20 July 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the above-mentioned Bill. The reasons for the bill were presented by Tanya Mileva. Head of the political cabinet of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. By Decision No 653 of the Council of Ministers of 18 September 2014 the Republic of Bulgaria agreed with the content of the Cross-border Cooperation Programme The programme was approved by Decision of the European Commission C(2015) 5280 of 22 July 2015. It is one of five European Union cross-border cooperation programmes in which our country participates during the relevant period. The Managing Authority is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of Bulgaria and the Ministry of European Affairs of Turkey performs the functions of the National Authority. Proposals for ratification by law shall ensure the full participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation "INTERREG" - IPA Bulgaria - Turkey 2014 - 2020 under the quoted Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance, defining the powers of the authorities responsible for the effective management and implementation of the programme, in accordance with the commitments made by the Republic of Bulgaria. The Memorandum shall negotiate national co-financing on priority axes and participation between partners from each country. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 12.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Dear colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Enchev, I see you're raising your hand. Here you go. Please.... on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u19	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I suggest that this Ratification be postponed. That's why. The material scope of the Cross-border Cooperation Programme shall include regions located at the border between the two partner countries. These are three districts on the Bulgarian side: Burgas, Yambol and Haskovo, and on the Turkish side: the provinces of Adrianople and Kirkaleri. You know that after last year the Bulgarian Parliament and the respective municipalities adopted declarations condemning the Armenian genocide on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the tragic page in the history of Armenia, the Turkish country, in particular these two municipalities, Adrianople and Kirkaleri, interrupted the co-operation with Burgas, Haskovo and Yambol. However, after the Municipal Council in Yambol withdrew the declaration of Armenian genocide under Turkish pressure, sanctions against Yambol were dropped. If you enter the website of the European Commission, I am reading the text from there, you will understand that in March 2016 the Turkish Ministry of Foreign Affairs prohibited working with the Bulgarian municipalities that voted on declarations of Armenian genocide. This is only about Burgas and Haskovo, because, as I said, Yambol has dropped out. Therefore, there will be no EUR funding of 11 million. euros, which should be absorbed together with the Turkish side, by these two Bulgarian municipalities. Therefore, millions of euros from cross-border cooperation will not reach the disaster-threatening areas, as it is about the Environmental Protection and Natural Disasters Programme, but as it is about European funding, I am now reading the text from the European Commission's website, where the rules exclude the choice of municipalities to become different from the geographical ones, the entire Programme will be stopped because of Turkey's decision to introduce its own rules, i.e. to boycott these two municipalities, Burgas and Haskovo, by order of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey. If today we, that is to say, you ratify this Treaty, you will ratify a Cross-border Cooperation Treaty with the Republic of Turkey, provided that the Republic of Turkey itself blocks cross-border cooperation with regard to two municipalities, which, by its nature from an international legal point of view, is a parexelance infringement, and from a moral point of view, a revenge because of the independent position of two autonomous Bulgarian municipalities and, in general, the position of the Bulgarian Parliament for Armenian genocide. Therefore, I specifically propose that this ratification be postponed until these issues fall away from the bilateral relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey. There must be cross-border co-operation with our neighbours, and first with Turkey, as a country currently experiencing the most serious problems with the refugee flow However, we cannot ignore the Bulgarian national interests and especially the interests of these two municipalities. We cannot turn a blind eye to the racket that was exercised over Yambol Municipality, which, under official Turkish pressure, withdrew its decision. I hope that my colleagues from Ataka and IMRO will take the floor and support me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We're closing the debate...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u21	I made a procedural motion to postpone.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u22	No, you didn't, Mr. Enchev. You very much said you wanted a continuance. If you want a procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal to put to the vote the postponement of ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u24	There is no such possibility in the Rules. Please meet art. 52, para. 2 and, according to him, offer something else correctly. My fellow Members, I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation They voted 102 MPs: for 93, against 8, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Negative vote. Here you are, indeed, the Patriot Front Group has only a negative vote. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u25	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The Patriot Front Group did not support this ratification because we believe that Turkey is not in the European Union. It is absurd nowadays that Europe continues to finance a country where there is no human rights in which a half-dictor is now a sultan, a man who pursues freedom of the press, is pursuing all other people. We, both as a country and as a parliament, should not support such a country in its efforts to enter the European Union. This is the position of the Patriotic Front of VMRO and NFSB for years that Turkey has no place in the European Union because it is a completely different country and does not meet European values. I hope that the Bulgarian Parliament will no longer support the government and the Republic of Turkey itself in entering the European Union in subsequent votes and ratifications of such treaties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u26	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I don't see a second negative vote. Mr. Nenkov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Despite my fellow Members who have spoken before me, because no proposals have been made and no desire for changes between the first and second votes has been expressed, I am making a proposal on the grounds of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put to the second vote the Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation of the Cross-border Cooperation Programme between the Governments of Bulgaria and Turkey. I'm doing a procedure to put him to a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u28	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I won't. Colleagues, I am putting to the vote the procedural proposal to examine the bill and to second reading. They voted 83 MPs: 74 against 8, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we are going to consider the Second Voting Bill. Dear Mr. Nenkov, report the texts of the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u29	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the Cross-border Cooperation Programme A single member. Ratinames the Memorandum for the Implementation of the Cross-border Cooperation Programme FINAL DISCLOSURE It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Statement, honourable Members, by the name of the Bill, Article one and final provision? Mr. Enchev, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u31	I use the occasion to call on the MPs from Haskovo District, regardless of which parliamentary group they are from, to support the refusal of ratification of this document, because, I remind the people from Haskovo District, I do not know who they are from you, as I do not currently have the opportunity to make this reference. I remind them that in March this year Haskovo lost 300,000. euros under the cross-border co-operation programme after the Turkish municipalities, which I have already mentioned, have withdrawn their support for cross-border co-operation with the Haskovo region. And because Haskovo intended to invest most of that 300,000. euros in the park with the name of "Armentsi" they will lose half a million leva. This is a purely formal address to the MPs from Haskovo region of Party GERB, the Reformation Bloc, VMRO, NFSB, If today we accept this ratification, the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria is not solidarity with the Bulgarian municipalities subjected to If I have to be specific in a purely personal way, the Turkish Head of State Erdogan has. In addition, I was very well spoken before by IMRO's representative Mr. Angelov, who said that Turkey has no place in the European Union. But there is something more important, and from the last two days the Turkish government itself said that the public sentiment in the country is such that Turkey should not be a member of the European Union at this stage. Since the Turkish government has reservations, referring to the Turkish public opinion, why are we developing a Cross-border Cooperation Programme after Bulgaria is placed in a discriminated position? This is a humiliating situation, a humiliating vote just now. You voted against the authority of the Republic of Bulgaria. You have violated the autonomy of the Bulgarian municipalities, subject to sanctions by the Republic of Turkey. I ask you to look purely pragmatically at this proposal of my delaying ratification. I'm making this proposal again, even though it's too late.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u32	You can't do this anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u33	Yes, you can no longer, I agree, but I ask you in the vote to cast your vote against this ratification so that you can go out with honor to your voters in Haskovo region, Yambol region and Burgas region. If you are in favour of this ratification right now, I can say that you, as MPs from these three areas, have no right to look your constituents in the eye. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u34	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. We get it. - What's the line? I won't. I really expected you to make some editorial suggestions. That didn't happen anyway. Any other speeches? I won't. Honourable Members, I shall put to the vote the names of the Law proposed in the Bill, article one and final provision with paragraph one alone. Vote 92 MPs: 83 against 9, no abstentions. The proposal is adopted, with which the Law at second reading. Honourable Members, we are going to the next item on the voted agenda: LAW PROJECT FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT FOR THE EMPLOYMENT OF FREE FINANCIAL AID BETWEEN THE MINISTRY OF THE OUTSIDE WORKS OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION OF FRANCE. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016. The bill is allocated to the leading Committee on Foreign Policy as well as to the Committee on Budget and Finance. We have a report only from the Foreign Policy Committee. Mrs. Grozdanova, you're welcome to introduce him to us. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u35	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on Grants between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophony, No 602-02-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016. At a meeting held on 31 August 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the above-mentioned Draft Law. The Agreement was signed on 21 June 2016 in Paris. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Rumen Alexandrov. The adoption of the Law on ratification of the Agreement on Grants between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie, signed on 21 June 2016 in Paris, enables the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make a first-time contribution to the International Organisation of Francophonies and to support through official development assistance two youth projects developed jointly with the Francophone Regional Centre for Central and Eastern Europe. The two projects are included in the 2016 Programme of the Regional Action Plan for Central and Eastern Europe of the International Organisation of Francophony. The project activities will be implemented in Sofia, in the building of the Francophone Regional Centre for Central and Eastern Europe. The first project envisions the holding of the First International Meeting of Youth Francophone Associations from the region of Central and Eastern Europe on the topic I am an Francophone, I am active, I can. The aim of this meeting is through a series of lectures and related debates by participants from the Balkan Francophone countries, Armenia, Moldova and Kosovo to share views on strengthening the youth association movement in the region, as well as its value orientation by building a culture of democratic values, human rights, gender equality, solidarity, cohabitation in a cultural and linguistic diversity environment. The focus of this project, in the context of the initiative of the Secretary-General of the International Organisation of Francophonies of 10 March In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21 (2) of the Financial Regulation. The questions of education for world citizenship and the fight against radicalisation and extremism of youth on the Internet and in social networks will be issues that are a priority of the International Organisation of Francophonies and of the international community. The second project envisions the holding of a Regional Seminar "Francophone Media Environment in School" during which young people from the same countries who voluntarily publish school and university newspapers and magazines will be trained in writing journalistic texts, publishing and advertising Francophone events, conducting interviews. The grant financial assistance amounts to 64,453 euros, 27,042 euros for the first and 37,409 euros for the second project, respectively. Pursuant to the Agreement, the duration of the activities is 1 December 2016 and the grant cannot be used for any other than the financing of the activities detailed in Annex 1 to the basic text of the Agreement. The Parties agree to broadcast one representative to carry out current and subsequent control of all activities, and for the Bulgarian side this role will be played by the national correspondent to the International Organisation of Francophony. The provisions of the Agreement are in accordance with the Constitution, the Bulgarian legislation, the international obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria and the law of the European Union and do not require measures of a legislative nature with a view to their implementation. The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy, with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no votes against the Council of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies, No 602-02-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. There is no report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Debates are open. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor not to dispute or make an objection to this Agreement........................................................... is necessary........................................ The development of relations between Bulgaria and France, the study of French and French culture are undoubtedly a way and a means for our participation in the world cultural exchange. I allow myself to say that France and French culture are at the heart of modern civilization, at the heart of modern democracy, and the principles bequeathed to us by the Great French Revolution, Freedom, Equality and Brotherhood, are inalienable values to this day. However, I would like to draw attention to and express the opinion of our group on an important issue relating to the subject. In Annex 1, a description of Project 2, the first sentence clearly defines the status of the French language in Bulgaria. The French language has no official or mother tongue status in any Eastern and Central European country and is studied as a foreign language. I think it is correct to ratify this Agreement, and a little later we will look at in the Chamber and the ratification of an agreement with the International Organisation of Francophonies related to the activities of the Higher School of Francophonie for Administration and Management. I take occasion from these two ratifications to address the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Science in connection with an initiative of the Association of Bulgarian Schools abroad, which had acquired the form of a petition to the European Parliament, for the acquisition and recognition of the status of the Bulgarian language as maturity in the countries of the European Union. I believe that the Republic of Bulgaria has done many things decades ago for the development and dissemination of French and French culture in Bulgaria and we have the right to put this issue before the Government of the Republic of France. In addition, there are hundreds of Bulgarian citizens living in France, whose children study the Bulgarian language in the Bulgarian Sunday schools. It is not foreign to these citizens of Europe, but is a mother tongue. With this note and address to the executive power in the face of the two ministries, we hope that we will activate the policy of the Bulgarian state to resolve this important issue for our fellow citizens in the Republic of France. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u38	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. A line to Mr. Mihov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mihov, in solidarity with the conclusions you have made, I just want to make a note. The international organisation of Francophonie is not a French organisation but is an organisation in which France is a member on a common basis, together with 97 other countries. So we cannot talk about a French organisation and that we support France, we are doing something in favour of France. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u40	Thank you, Assoc. Kuchukov. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Mihov? You won't use it. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We're closing the debate. Honourable Members, we are voting for a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Grants between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophony, No 602-02-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The bill for ratification of the Agreement was adopted unanimously at first reading. Mrs. Grozdanova, come in for a second reading procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u41	Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure to be dealt with at second reading in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u42	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova's proposal for second reading and voting on the bill. Vote 73 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u43	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Grant Agreement between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of the Francophonie A single member. Ratifying the grant agreement between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie, signed on 21 June 2016 in Paris.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u44	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I won't. We're closing the debate. I hereby put to the second vote the Agreement on Grants between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of the Francophonie, a title and a single member. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted unanimously in a second vote. The next item on the agenda is: REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION ON THE DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE STATEMENT OF THE PRIVACY OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY TO STATE SECURITY AND THE INNOVATION SERVICES OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S ARMY FOR THE PERIOD 20 DECEMBER 2014 "JULI 20 2015 AND REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION FOR THE DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND FOR THE STATEMENT OF THE PRESENCE OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY TO SECURITY AND INNOVATION SERVICES OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S ARMY FOR THE REGION OF JULY 20, 2015. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man To read the report there is the representative of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order Mr. Dedev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please, in connection with art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be granted permission in the hall of Mr. Airush Hadji, Vice-President of the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u46	Voting regime for admission in this House, fellow Members. Vote 77 MPs: 72 against 3, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the representative of the honourable administration. Here you go, Mr. Dedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u47	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2014. "July 20th" No 520-00-29, submitted by the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army on 20 July 2015. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order at its meeting held on 7 October 2015 examined the Report on the Commission's activities on disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2014. "July 20th" No 520-00-29, submitted by the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army on 20 July 2015. The meeting was attended by Evtim Kostadinov, Chairman of the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, which briefly presented the Commission's activities in that reporting period. The report reflects the activities of the establishment and declaration of belonging of State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army and data on the creation of a centralised archive of documents. The activities to ensure access to documents, research and international activities of the Commission are presented. Information on court cases and upcoming tasks has been provided. The Commission, following the provisions of the law for the reporting period, has carried out an inspection of 15 990 Bulgarian citizens and has declared membership of 542 persons. For the period 1 December 2014 The Commission discussed and adopted 95 decisions on 30 June 2015. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order supported with 12 votes in favour, without votes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. "July 20th" 2015 No 520-00-29, submitted by the Commission for disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army on 20 July 2015 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on it with the following wording: ? RESPONSIBILITY? For the adoption of a Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2014. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 4, para. 6 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, and art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Commission's activities on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u48	Second report, Mr. Dedev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u49	Yeah. ♪ I can't believe on the activities of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2015. - December 20th. - December 20th. No 520-00-32, submitted by the Commission for disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army on 18 December 2015. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order at its meeting held on 13 April 2016 examined the Report on the Commission's activities on disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2015. - December 20th. - December 20th. No 520-00-32, submitted by the Commission for disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army on 18 December 2015. From the Commission for the Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army at the meeting attended the President Evtim Kostadinov. Evtim Kostadinov briefly presented the Commission's activities in that period. The report reflects data on the creation of a central archive of State Security documents and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The activities to ensure access to documents, research and international activities of the Commission are presented. Information on court cases and upcoming tasks has been provided. The Commission, following the provisions of the law, for the reporting period carried out an inspection of 18 630 Bulgarian citizens and declared belonging to 598 persons. For the period 1 July This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission has discussed and adopted 54 decisions on 30 November Evtim Kostadinov pointed out that under the agreement between the Commission and the Military Information. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order supported by 14 votes for the State Security, 3 votes against and 1 vote abstention" the submitted Report on the Commission's activities on disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2015. - December 20th. - December 20th. On 18 December 2015, No 520-00-32, submitted by the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on it with the following wording: ? RESPONSIBILITY? For the adoption of a Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2015 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 4, para. 6 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army and art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the Commission's activities on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2015. "20 December 2015"
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Dedev. Statements on the solutions so proposed and two reports for the period 20 December 2014 to 20 December 2015? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u51	Mr President, honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal that the Commission report should not be adopted at this stage until, between first and second reading, a final decision is taken both in the Commission and in the plenary on three draft laws and, above all, two drafts of the BSP Law on the transformation of the Commission into the National Memory Institute and my Bill on the closing of the Commission on files and the passage of its documents and archives to the National Intelligence Service, the Military Information Service, the National Security Agency. I'm making a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u52	Here you go, Mr. Slavov. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making a reverse offer. As Mr. President drew attention to the reports had nothing to do with these bills. For Mr. Enchev in particular, I am explaining the Rules of the National Assembly, which he has obviously not read carefully. Bills rejected at first reading will not be discussed between the readings of the adopted bill and the bill adopted by the House provides that not only the Commission on Files will remain and continue to work, but that its powers will be extended and that the circle of persons to be checked will be extended. Even to Mr. Enchev's delight I would say that today we are adding an addition between the two readings to this Law for an even more serious extension of powers. To be calm, the Commission will not be closed and the Commission's closure bills have been rejected at first reading and there is no way to do what he very much hopes to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u54	Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? I can't see. I terminate the debate and put to the vote the two decisions proposed by Mr. Dedev to adopt the Report on the Commission's activities for disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2014 to 20 December 2015. Both reports and the two proposals for a decision. [[Heckling]] Cancel the vote. I've just been offered a vote by the Secretariat, although they're at one point. First, we are voting on the first report and on the first decision for the period 20 December 2014. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 90 MPs voted: 77 against 12, abstention 1. The decision's been made. Now, honourable Members, we are voting on the second report and on the second proposal for a decision on the Commission's work on disclosure of documents and declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 July 2015. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Vote 89 MPs: 77 against 11, abstention 1. The second draft decision has been adopted. My fellow Members, I suggest we accept the next last point: REPORT OF THE NATIONAL BOOK OF CONTROL OF SPECIAL DISCLOSURES FOR THE performance in 2014 AND REPORT OF THE NATIONAL BOOK OF CONTROL OF SPECIAL DISCLOSURES FOR THE performance IN 2015 Please, Mr. Lazarov, read the two reports. I see that the second one is quite voluminous and I will ask you only to the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, before I introduce you to the reports, please put the vote to the House Mr. Boyko Rashkov, Director of the National Bureau for Special Intelligence Control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u56	Voting regime for admission to the House of Boyko Rashkov, honourable Members. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Quaestors, invite Mr. Rashkov to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u57	♪ I can't believe on the Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2014, No 509-00-1, submitted by the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means on 1 June 2015. At its meeting held on 7 July 2016, the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act discussed the Report on the Activity of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means in 2014. The meeting was attended by: the Chief Prosecutor of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov; Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Cassation Ms. Pavlina Panova; from the Ministry of Interior: Mr. Tzvetko Georgiev On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mr. Boyko Rashkov. It contains three main groups of issues: first.. the establishment and organization of the National Bureau; second.. summarized data on the verified procedures, and third... conclusions and proposals for legislative changes. In 2014, as the first year of the operation of the National Bureau, more than 200 checks were carried out on the activities of the relevant authorities. The report sets out specific data on the number of persons to whom special intelligence funds have been applied The procedures were initiated by the Ministry of Interior in 43.3% of the cases; SANS In 645 cases special intelligence means were used in relation to objects for identification of persons under art. 12, para. 1, t. 4 of the Special Intelligence Means Act. Total requests for initiation of procedures in respect of persons and objects are: 5604....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The SRS has been used to solve serious crimes of intent: under art. 354 (a) 29,3%), i.e. for drugs; under art. 321 "Organised Criminal Group" 20,9%; under art. 104 "Spying" 14.2%, under art. 234 "Executive goods" and other "13.9%." With regard to operational methods, the National Bureau found: 19 698 number requested; 19 208 number authorised and 11 115 number actually applied methods. There have been 334 infringements committed by the applicants in which in 150 of the cases a refusal has been ordered by a judge. In the remaining 184 cases permissions were granted and procedures were carried out that contradict the Law. As a result of the use of special intelligence means in 2014, 1084 pieces of physical evidence were drawn up, of which 952 were incorporated into criminal proceedings. People's representatives Metodi Andreyev, Dimitar Dubov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Atanas Merdjanov, Atanas Atanasov and Dimitar Lazarov took part in the discussion with questions and comments. The members of the Commission expressed their positive opinion on the Activity Report of the National Bureau in 2014. A positive assessment of the Bureau's work was given by the Vice-President of the VCC Mrs. Panova. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held. With 14 votes for the Council, without the opposition and abstention, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision with the following wording: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting a Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2014 ♪ I can't believe on the Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2015, No 609-00-1, submitted by the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means on 31 May 2016. At its meeting held on 7 July 2016, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act discussed the Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activities carried out in 2015. The meeting was attended by: the Chief Prosecutor of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov; the Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Cassation Ms. Pavlina Panova; from the Ministry of Interior: Deputy Minister Tsvetko Georgiev and Commissioner General Georgi Kostov; from the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence The report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2015 was presented by his Chairman - Mr. Boyko Rashkov. During the reporting period, the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence has carried out 242 inspections, given 49 mandatory instructions, developed 6 templates of registers and rules for keeping them, provided 6 applications under the Public Information Access Act, in 20 cases notified leaders of various state institutions of significant problems in the implementation of the SRS, developed their internal rules and participated in a number of working meetings on the problems of the SRS. In 2015, procedures for the implementation of the SRS were initiated in respect of 2638 persons. For comparison, in 2014, the number of controlled persons was 37.22% more and in 2013. With 40.75% more, that is to say, there is a permanent trend for reducing the number of persons against whom the SRS is used. In 79 cases the SRS were used to protect the lives and property of persons, gave consent to this under art. 12, para. 2 of the Special Intelligence Means Act. In 299 cases the SRS are used in relation to objects for identification of persons under art. 12, para. 1, t. 4 of the Law. 50,29% of the requests were made by the Ministry of Interior, 30,05% by the Prosecutor's Office, 19.16% by the SANS. Compared to 2014, the largest decrease in the relative share of requests made by the SANS, whose share of 31.5% decreased to 19,16%. The total number of authorisations granted is 4034 "3150" on initial requests, and 884 "on requests for extension." The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Most permits, respectively refusals from the total number, are issued by the Specialized Criminal Court: permissions 26,79%, refusals.. 29,28%, Sofia City Court: permissions 21,38%, refusals.. 35,14%, and District Court................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Declined 22,37% of the SANS' demands, 15.21% of the Ministry of Interior's demands and 10.88% of the prosecution's demands. The main reasons for the refusals given are: insufficient motivation of the requests; exceeding the maximum period of application; relating to requests for entry of an additional establishment upon application already in force and due to requests made to an incompetent court. Special intelligence means have been used most often to solve crimes for an organized crime group, narcotics and theft. It reduces the total number of authorizations for operating methods, which is 41,58% less compared to 2014. As a result of the implementation of Special Intelligence Means in 2015, 1677 pieces of physical evidence were drawn up, which is an increase of 54.7%. The Bureau shall take into account generally a good disposal activity which did not serve to draw up VDS. In 2015, the Bureau formed 123 files to verify the correctness of the application of special intelligence means. Of these 98 are on citizens' signals, and in the other 15 the bureaus have self-conceived. As a result of the inspections, 10 citizens have been informed that they have been unlawfully subject to the SRS due to: implementation of the SRS for a period longer than the maximum by law.. 5 cases; use of the SRS in the absence of criminal data.. 5 cases, granting permission to the SRS by the non-competent authority......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, the Bureau shall take into account that 41 cases have established evidence of the misuse and enforcement of the SRS or of the unlawful storage or destruction of the information acquired through them, for which the heads of the bodies referred to in art. Art. 13 and art. 20 The Special Intelligence Means Act, as well as nine other cases of unlawful authorisation of the implementation of the SRS, notified to the Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Judicial Council and the Minister of Justice. In the last part of the report, the Bureau summarizes that In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. Much of his proposals for legal changes have been adopted by the legislator, which has improved the legal framework and the regime of use of the SRS. The discussion was attended by the MPs Metodi Andreyev, Dimitar Dubov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Atanas Merdjanov, Atanas Atanasov and Dimitar Lazarov. They agreed on the opinion that the report contained sufficient detailed information on the Bureau's activities in 2015 and on the state of implementation and use of the SRS in 2015 and a number of the problems identified in 2014 were overcome in 2015, thanks to the Bureau's actions and good cooperation with the authorities involved in the procedures for the resolution, application and use of the SRS. In this sense, the Bureau's work has been assessed positively. The tendency to reduce the number of persons subject to the SRS and to reduce the number of authorised and implemented operating methods has been noted, indicating that this trend should not be absoluteised and interpreted for itself, but in the context of the objective need for proper use of the SRS, depending on the criminal situation and threats to national security. The increased efficiency of the use of the SRS was noted due to the increased number of material evidences drawn up. After the discussion and vote held with 14 votes for the vote, without the opposition and the abstention, the Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision with the following wording: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting a Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activities carried out in 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. I'm opening up the debate. I don't see any speeches. We're closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we are adopting a first decision......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Voting regime, honourable Members. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. We now accept the second Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2015. Voting regime, honourable Members. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The 2015 report has been adopted. Dear colleagues, thank you for your patience. Time out. 11:00. I'm in control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u59	Honourable Members of Parliament, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period from 2 to 8 September 2016: A question was received from the National Representative Georgi Gokov to Zornitsa Rusinova, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, concerning the policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding the creation of employment for people in pre-retirement age. The reply should be made in plenary on 16 September 2016. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov, additional to a written answer; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - Deputy Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Kiril Dobrev. - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions from Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to two questions from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov. As National Representative Stanislav Stanilov has postponed for respectable reasons his question to Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science, will not participate in the current parliamentary control. We move on to the answers of Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for the Interior. First he will ask a question to her - this is a question, the people representative Yavor Haytov on the common security policy at the Bulgarian border. Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, in the last days of August it has become known that the Republic of Turkey and, above all, its President Recep Erdogan have a view to denounce the readmission agreement between Turkey and the European Union. This mostly concerns Bulgaria as a border country with the Republic of Turkey. Is the question still open, is it true, or are they just journalistic interpretations? Whether it is so or not, the Bulgarian state is obliged to have its clear policy regarding the security of its border. My question is: what is the general policy of the government with regard to the security of the Bulgarian border and the land and sea? Please answer us what are the technical capabilities of the Directorate-General for Border Police and what technical facilities does the Ministry of Interior have for security at our Black Sea border? Are they enough and what is being done to improve the same ones? Please also inform us in your capacity as Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and in charge of the State Administration, in what way are the regional managers in the border areas supporting actions regarding the Bulgarian border and what is the state and technical security of border crossing points? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u61	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u62	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, before I answer to the substance of your question, I will make one clarification. Regarding Turkey's position, there is no indication that the Turkish side will denounce the agreement concluded. It is not being implemented at the moment by Turkey because it is perceived as part of the common package of the Agreement with the European Union. Turkey believes that, insofar as the European Union has not met the conditions they have requested, they are suspending the readmission agreement. The Bulgarian country makes every effort to restore the practice of readmission and apply it to third-country nationals. We are currently having bilateral talks, which give us quite good prospects, in my opinion, at this stage at which negotiations are being held. As far as the government's common policy is concerned, I have repeatedly had the opportunity to present its fundamental philosophy and use all available resources in compliance with European and national law. What the Ministry of Interior is doing in a common political plan is to organize its forces in such a way. supposed to the Border Police, the forces of the National Police and after the change of the Law and a certain number of army troops and officers to join the security at the Bulgarian border. Their actions have been laid down and developed in two operational plans. One is for actions along the Bulgarian-Greek border and the other for actions along the Bulgarian-Turkish border. They are approved by the Council of Ministers. We act according to the development of the situation on these plans. We did a series of teachings and training on them. We maintain the general readiness of all forces at our disposal. On the other hand, we are continuing with the technical assistance..................................................................................... which is needed for the more effective protection of the border. We are now looking for additional powers from Frontex. We have the assurance that a hundred more officers will arrive here very soon. We have requested additional funds from the European Commission. This procedure is ongoing. We have justified ourselves in view of short-term, medium-term and long-term measures on what we need. We have sent to all European countries, to their prime ministers a list of the technical resources that we would need and if they had the opportunity to provide them to us. The German side, after the talks in Germany, informed us that by September 17 we will receive the main part that was offered to us by November, what they currently have. After conducting their procedures we will have additions to them. Personally, my view is that diplomatic efforts are the basis for a successful long-term policy in dealing with the migrant situation. At various forums, at different councils and at European Council level, and those of the ministers of foreign and internal affairs, we demand a common European solution in terms of the conditions under which refugees are allocated, because we are not questioning at all the policy on enhanced security at the external borders. We have a responsibility under this policy, in general opinion, quite well compared to other countries. What Bulgaria is doing is crossing illegal migration, which is, unfortunately, fundamental, to register everyone for whom it is found to be in its territory, which is not a practice of other countries, and to conduct very strict asylum procedures for those who want it. Over 95% are those who actually have reason to obtain such status, and we give it. As for the technical capabilities that the Ministry of Interior uses to protect its borders. To ensure border surveillance of the land border of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Directorate General for Border Police has an integrated surveillance system along the border and an automated monitoring system for a section of the Bulgarian-Serbian border. Mobile surveillance systems, based on high passability cars, as well as handheld, thermal imaging cameras, night vision glasses and binoculars are additionally used in border surveillance. In order to monitor both the external and internal border, four helicopters are also used for aerial surveillance. As an additional measure for the protection of the Bulgarian-Turkish border, our government approved the funding and completed the engineering obstruction facility and the adjoining road to it. To ensure the border surveillance of the sea border of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Directorate General of Border Police is using an integrated surveillance system and a blue border, and 13 border-police ships with high maritime quality and modern technical equipment. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There's still a long list.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u63	Almost a minute more answer, Mrs. Bachvarova. Two supplementary questions, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I am following closely what you are doing as the head of this extremely important office. Of course, I also have an opinion on the topics that you do not do well, quality and time. I allow myself to introduce you to my opinion in a private conversation. About what you're doing. I followed that in August you had three important meetings in this connection of an international nature with the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Serbia Nebojsa Stefanovic, with the Minister of Interior of Austria Wolfgang Sobotka, attended a meeting with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mrs Angela Merkel. I would like to hear from you what commitments our European partners have made and, of course, our western neighbours, Serbia. That's my first additional question. The second is: what procedures under the Public Procurement Act or direct negotiation run in the Ministry of Interior to improve the technical condition and equipment, whether for cars, computers, visors? It is no secret that the poor material and technical condition is also a reason for leaving some of the employees in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u65	Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u66	Dear Mr. Haytov! From the meetings you have listed, there is another important one, in my opinion, with the Greek Interior Minister, Mr. Toskas. At the meetings with the internal ministers of Serbia, Greece, Austria and Germany, we have presented the Bulgarian position for a common European solution, which is insisting that the countries that are on the front line should not be burdened with all the burdens of the migration flow. That is to say, according to the logic of the Dublin regulation, those registered with us should remain with us forever. Bilateral cooperation and exchange of information is very important in this situation. This is a topic that we have discussed with everyone and, of course, organizational issues related to the joint patrols on the Bulgarian-Greek, the Bulgarian-Serb border, which enable us to have a more objective picture. There were problems with the Serbian side that the scope of the joint patrols was limited and this hindered their wider use. We've set them straight. They're working well now. The Greeks and I have also clarified this issue and we have a two-sided centre there. With the Greek and Turkish countries, we have discussed the opening of the Trilateral Center of Captain Andreevo, where together, we will work together Greek, Turkish and Bulgarian officers and information exchange services and take joint action. As far as the Austrian side is concerned, we took a detailed look at the situation there. It's very complicated in Austria. They have specific measures that they apply, such as setting a ceiling. Their legislation allows refugees who can accept, they are not few in Austria. They have an idea that I personally very much like, but as I said to my colleague Sobotka, it seems to me that its implementation has been delayed for centres outside the territory of the European Union for the reception and distribution of refugees in the countries of the region. As for our conversations in Germany, you know that Germany is our main partner. There we presented our expectations for the help they offered us. In this clarification, the German institutions participated at all levels, including Chancellor Merkel informed himself at every stage of what we had agreed. In the same way, we discussed the common, global situation in Europe and what can be done. In these conversations [[the President signals that time has run out]] In fact, we have presented our position that the talks between Turkey and the European Union must continue in order to get out of the dead spot that only a month ago were present, for the two countries were putting conditions in place. You see, and in the statements of various leaders of the countries, it is noticed that this political direction has already been taken..... has been extended the deadline for submitting a response to the visas of the Turkish country. The most important thing we've achieved, I think we've given [[the President signals that time has run out]] reason to continue this process. As for your second question...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u67	Time ran out 50 seconds ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u68	Just to say that public procurement is publicly known. There are one or two orders that hinder us because the bids submitted for technical support of the facilities at the border exceed the amount we have announced many times. That's why we're announcing a new one with additional requirements.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u69	Mr. Haytov's attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u70	Thank you, Madam President. I believe that what you have exported is also important for all Bulgarian citizens to know that the state is in place, doing its job and the Bulgarian borders are protected and guarded properly. Last but not least, it is also extremely important that our European partners do not forget us and take enough care and that Bulgaria is not alone, including, I think that the participation of Frontex as assisting the Border Police Directorate General is not quite enough. I have been many times critical of the National Assembly's stand on the fact that perhaps we are busy being serious guards of the European Union as a whole by illegal immigrants, we forget something very important about the issue of domestic crime. Madam Minister, I believe that this is a subject that needs to be resumed again. My opinion is that the Ministry of Interior may be occupied with the guards at our border, behind on this topic and the Bulgarian villages, the small Bulgarian municipalities remain without the necessary support and without the police presence what we all want. We are entering the preparation phase for the 2017 budget, and I ask you very much to exercise your full influence in order to get the Ministry of Interior a sufficient, authoritative budget to enable not only the border to be guarded, but also small settlements to be visited and have a police presence to be a little more secure, because it is indeed one of the scourges of modern times. I am sure that you, too, as a government, are obliged to take into account these problems that fall on citizens in villages and small municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u71	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. [[National Representative Valeri Zablyanov wants the floor for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.]] Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov, for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u72	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! On today, September 9, 72 years ago, the Government of the Father's Front was formed, and at 6:00 a.m. the government declaration was read, announcing Bulgaria's exit from the Trilateral fascist Pact. Bulgaria's participation in World War II on the side of the fascist forces is a fact which, fortunately, cannot be reversed by opponents on 9 September. On this day the Bulgarian nation, society and state owe respect and respect to the celebration of anti-fascist resistance, which ordered the vast majority of Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian people on the side of peace, humanism and the achievements of European civilization. Our Bulgarian victory holiday is part of the great victory achieved by the peoples of Europe with weapons against the fascist occupiers. In the years of World War II, the European peoples united against fascism, the fighters from the armed resistance of France, Italy, Spain, Poland, Czechoslovakia and a number of other countries, the illegals, political prisoners and anti-hitleric coalition soldiers put above their nationality the common case of victory for justice, freedom and humanity. The victory of September 9th at the same time is the result of the decade-long struggles of a large part of the Bulgarian public, representatives of different parties against the non-constitutional regimes for government of the state. Farmers, Social Democrats, Radicals and Democrats participate in this fight against the fascist political organizations in Bulgaria for the restoration of the Tarnovo Constitution. During the years of the war, progressive political forces and public circles were able to find the form and means of widespread unification, including workers and liberal parties, democratic political circles, individual famous Bulgarian politicians and intellectuals. The Patriotic Front, which involved various parties, was created with opponents of the Union with fascist Germany. The Program of the Fatherland Front, announced on 17 July 1942, outlined the following objectives: to prevent Bulgaria from joining Hitler's military operations; to withdraw the Bulgarian troops from the Yugoslav territory; to establish cooperation with the Balkan peoples and anti-hitler coalition countries. Behind this program are all progressive Bulgarian citizens. The program of the Fatherland Front aims to establish a real national government and to convene the Grand National Assembly. On the basis of the values set out in this programme against the fascist regime in Bulgaria, a multidimensional resistance of the entire Bulgarian society is being carried out. The workers, peasants, intellectuals, officers, soldiers. As a result of this resistance, the Bulgarian people saved our Jewish fellow citizens from the horrific fascist machine for human extermination. This happened when a number of other peoples in Europe were watching the train compositions of the Third Reich on the way to concentration camps and gas chambers. In the years of the war and the fascist dictatorship, the Bulgarian public placed the allies of fascist Germany in moral and political isolation. On 9 September a wide coalition government was established, a government was formed, which set itself the goal to take Bulgaria out of the war, from the losing Union of fascist countries. The sacrifices the Bulgarian people gave were not in vain. Today Bulgaria's participation in the final phase of the war is seen almost as an ordinary military participation. The participation of our army in the Homeland War has shown that the Bulgarian soldier can serve the causes of peace and freedom and this modest contribution does not remain forgotten by the peoples of Yugoslavia, Hungary and Austria. Today, the monuments of the Bulgarian anti-fascists in Spain and Belgium, Serbia and Croatia, France, Macedonia and Italy are being honored. The political change on 9 September gave impetus to a half-century upward development. For several decades industrial society was built in Bulgaria, the path for catching up economic and social development was opened. Today, with much of the country's industrial heritage in ruins, we are once again in the position of catching up with developed societies and economies of the Union to which we belong. Economic planning and huge state investments, state-supported foreign policy and foreign trade, and last but not least the enthusiasm of several generations of builders of socialist Bulgaria are undoubtedly at the heart of the undeniable economic rise during these decades. As it turned out in the historical report, our country's path after World War II was thus the only opportunity for Bulgaria from a rural country to become a member of the Union of Developed States. In today's day, when uncertainty embraces Europe, and the ultimate right in front of everyone's eyes, it brings together the known policy of division, of isolation, of opposition of the European peoples against each other, and I hope that all who fought against fascism also remind us of the practice, the policy, the actions of the home-born government and 9 September, which saved Bulgaria from the catastrophe of Nazism. [[Applause from the SG of BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u73	There is now an opportunity to ask Mr. Willy Lilkov his question about the reasons why criminals who committed numerous proven crimes are on the loose and committing new crimes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Bachvarova! The reason for the present issue is the case of June 28, 2016 in the district of Plovdiv, Sofia, when, after the robbery of a pawn shop in the district of Plovdiv, Hristo Georgiev was shot by police, a former Ministry of Interior official with a 9-year internship in the system. It is known that the same man has been investigated for connections to the underworld and this is an excuse to file an exit report. He was subsequently detained in action in 2010 after a series of armed robberies of gold studios, but was released. He's also suspected of a number of robberies in the years to come, including banks and post office. In October 2013, he was involved in an armed robbery of Asset Bank in Vratsa. In November the same year he was in a shootout with the police in Sofia in the district of St. George. Trinity. He was arrested later with a gun and released. In 2014, he was suspected of a number of bank robberies, including a branch of the First Investment Bank, detained again in May 2015 just before the start of armed mail robbery in the district of Lyulin. After his detention, he was found involved in robbing a number of shops, including a mobile operator's store. In March 2016, he was released again under house arrest, and on 28 June he was shot in a shooting with the police. In relation to the above, I ask you to answer the following questions: why have proven criminals been released after each detention in the event of sufficient data and evidence of involvement in serious crimes, and with what motives has this been done? The second question: what needs to be taken to stop the practice of such relapses walking unpunished in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u75	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, one important clarification at the beginning. Hristo Georgiev was not under house arrest. On 7 March this year, he was released from custody where he had endured a measure of non-violence in custody for eight months. This is the maximum period of detention of one person unless a case has been initiated against him. Upon expiry of this period, the detainee shall be released immediately at the disposal of the prosecutor, which is signed in art. Paragraphs 4 and 5 of the PPC. Hristo Georgiev was arrested after a crime he was previously detained by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and pre-trial proceedings were initiated. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior have repeatedly over the years detained the person against whom there are eight pre-trial proceedings, a court case with an acquittal and was convicted once in 2014, and after an agreement has been concluded he has endured his sentence. Just because he was known to the Ministry of Interior and was expected, after leaving the police custody to commit a crime again, the officers of the Ministry of Interior collected operational information and organized a specialized police operation. In view of this, your first question concerns the decisions and actions of the judicial authorities from now on, and according to the Bulgarian Constitution they are independent and should not comment on them. On your second question, I must remind you that in May last year changes were adopted to the PPC proposed to the MPs by the Prosecutor General, who refined the provisions of the legislation in order to increase the effectiveness of the measures for non-violence and other measures for procedural coercion. Texts have also been adopted to ensure the quality of the proceedings through appropriate changes in the competence of the authorities of pre-trial proceedings and prosecution. In the course of the legislative process on changes by the Ministry of Interior, we presented to the MPs a comparative study of the laws in ten countries of the European Union on measures of non-violence and other measures of procedural coercion. In addition to legislative changes which limit the attempts of persons committing crimes with an element of relapse, I would like to emphasise the importance of the work on prevention in this area. We have put as a major focus our efforts in dealing with domestic crime because we find that most of domestic crimes are committed by people with recurrent manifestations. This requires not only the intervention of law enforcement bodies acting under their legal powers, but also a longer-term prevention policy to include individual authorities and to give the relevant result. The last few months we have initiated the renewal of the activities of inter-agency committees, which include all institutions at local level because these crimes are carried out at local level, and taking measures to restore some practices that would result, such as some of the programmes that other ministries have to carry out, as well as social services.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u77	Line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I am pleased with your answer, because this is what I expected to hear about whether such prevention actions are envisaged, because really repeaters are at the heart of such crimes and citizens are wondering how possible and acceptable such a thing is. Of course, such a program should be large enough. I would be happy if you would present this programme to Parliament in detail soon. Let us hope that in the next budget it will be financially provided, otherwise only the programme so written will not work. So in this sense, I expect in the next budget to secure such a programme financially and actually have an effect. Because by reading this file and looking at the actions of such relapses, people are wondering whether there is power in Bulgaria. Otherwise, by the excuse: we catch them, they let them go.......... to no longer be used in such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u79	Would you like to use a hole, Madam Secretary? No. By agreement of the MPs, we will now hear the issue, which is number eight in the program for today, and it is of the MPs Kiril Dobrev and Zhelyo Boychev on the removal of the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. Who will develop the question, colleagues? Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! On 1 September, you requested and received the resignation of the Director of the Regional Directorate of the RDVR. According to statements from the media, I quote: "The reason is to exceed police powers and illegal acts in relation to citizens. I would like to remind the Members of the National Assembly that the occasion was an event. Since I am from the stand of the Assembly, I will call it an intimate nature, in which the owner of a construction company, mayor, clarified the relations with the Prime Minister of the country. It impresses the very quick action that the employees of the Ministry of Interior have taken on the detention of the owner of the local website and one of the owners of this company. You claim to have ordered and verified by you. The question, together with the MP Kiril Dobrev, to you is: what is the result of this inspection and who, on what basis, has ordered the owner of the construction company and the owner of the local regional site to be detained? If I may, I'll allow myself a recommendation to you. I hope with the same impetus that you defend the honour of the Prime Minister, to protect public interests and the interests of the people, as a number of cases with very serious abuses Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u81	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u82	On the subject of the personal comment you've given yourself, I think he proves the opposite mirror we're looking at the world through. I do not see what I have done to protect Borisov's interest, I have defended the honor of the service by asking and accepting in an urgent order Mr. Tanushev's resignation. The inspection hasn't been completed, but I'll tell you the circumstances that made me request this resignation. Another clarification that the site owner was only called and talked to, is not detained. The owner of the construction company has been detained. That's where this guy needs to be specified, how much he's owned, which firm and so on, but referring to art. 321, para. 1 of the Penal Code, Mr. Tanushev has detained Mr. Bachev. Until the expiry of this measure, it has not found sufficient grounds for its action. Moreover, he has neither informed the professional leadership he is obliged to do nor the political one for these actions. This is unacceptable to the Ministry of Interior system. I cannot tolerate it, and I do not think that such actions should be taken with understanding and should be tolerated by the Ministry of Interior. The inspection is continuing. I would like to say that Mr. Tanushev has very good qualities as a police officer, he is a good police officer, and I will therefore give him the opportunity to realize himself as an employee, but not in a leadership position, in Petrich. All other speculations are false, I do not know where they are starting, but these are the objective circumstances and I think that this is exactly how the interest of Bulgarian citizens and the honour of the Ministry of Interior is protected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u83	A line? Mr. Kiril Dobrev, it's a general matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u84	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! Because you were talking about the honor of the service. I would like to ask an additional question, if it is possible for you to answer me afterwards, is everyone under arrest being asked about the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior and professional leadership? Because it's a special case here, and if there's one thing we're angry about, it's only three or four months ago, rather more than five, March, the special prosecutor's office, along with police units, is doing an action at Agromach and holding 1 million. EUR in the register, plus embezzlement for 13 million VAT drained, plus gold jewelry for over 500 thousand. Euros. And here our question is why were there no arrests then? Why not defend the country's economic interests with the same enthusiasm, but only the honor of the Prime Minister? That's our additional question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u85	A hole, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u86	I will say again: if you interpret these actions correctly, they are not the defence of the Prime Minister. Quite the opposite. I will allow myself a personal recommendation: more information about the facts of the cases you ask or raise. There's a case like this today, too. Mr. Boychev has allowed himself incorrect information that sounds defamatory to me. But that's another case. In each case of detention, professional management shall be informed. In cases where the grounds for such detention are controversial or need to be discussed, the professional management shall be given the opportunity to rule. On this occasion, although there have been others in Blagoevgrad who have happened, Mr. Tanushev has not been properly informed. As far as the case is concerned, Agromach is concerned. You should be informed that he's already in the D.A.'s office. The Ministry of Interior was working on it. It's over what needs to be done. The Directorate-General for Development has been working on it and an investigation is currently under way at the Prosecutor's Office. As far as I am aware, the ownership of the company is not uniquely related to the person we are commenting on now.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u87	Next, a question by the National Representative Krasimir Jankov on the results of the anti-trafficking measures in 2016. Here you go, Mr. Yankov. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] The third one is replaced by eight. Didn't you switch third to eighth? Three becomes last, eight. This is how I was informed by colleague Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u88	Third and eighth were switched?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u89	At your request, I have announced it, and with your consent. And now the fourth question: anti-trafficking measures in 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u90	I can start?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u91	Of course you can.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u92	Dear Madam President, colleagues, dear Mrs. Bachvarova! The Prime Minister at the International Round Table "The Light Economy" said that Bulgaria is currently one of the best in Europe in the fight against smuggling, which leads to billions of more revenue in the budget. Announcements that the results are visible as only from the beginning of the year were collected billion and 400 million. lv. more. In this regard, I ask you to answer the questions: What is the contribution of your office? How many smuggling investigations and how many pre-trial proceedings in 2016? Of these, how many charges have been filed and how many damages have been found from the crimes that have been solved in these cases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u93	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. The answer is given by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] You'll be waiting for eight, Mr. Yankov. This was your proposal for the exchange, I was present at your request.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u94	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, dear Mr. Yankov! Thank you very much for this question. You give me an exceptional opportunity to present a picture of the achieved extremely good results of the Ministry of Interior in the fight against smuggling. For the first seven months of this year, the structures of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Customs, which work together in the centre we created at the DGBOP, have seized the following quantities of excise goods: cigarettes? 46 million 866 short; chopped tobacco 68,795 kg.? almost 70 tonnes; ethyl alcohol? 91 thousand 552 liters,....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, the Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. BGN, which is nearly 60% more than the same period last year. In the first seven months of 2016. ...who I answer to, I don't know...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u95	Mr. Iankov, I'm going to ask you to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u96	In the first seven months of 2016 740 pre-trial proceedings under art. Article 234 242 of the NK, of which 221 fast and 5 immediate under art. 234 of the NK. 666 persons were involved in the capacity of indictees, 13 persons were indicted for leadership and participation in organised criminal groups dealing with smuggling and trade in excise goods. Apart from that, the Interdepartmental Coordination Centre for Countering Smuggling and Control of the Movement of Risk Goods and Goods, which I and all experts consider to be an extremely successful initiative, implements operational interaction and coordination on the territory of the country between other services of the Ministry of Interior, DGBOP, DGGPP and DGNP and the external state authorities represented therein...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the first half of 2016, more than 19 thousand were carried out. 767 inspections of goods and goods with high fiscal risk inside the country, not only along borders. In the course of the controls carried out in order to avoid tax evasion, protective action has been taken in 971 cases. The total amount of collateral imposed is almost 7 million. lv. In connection with attempts to avoid paying tax debts by companies, the Centre has initiated inspections and financial revisions by the NRA, 195 events are coordinated for the first seven months, with other structures of the Ministry of Interior and external control bodies. 15 national operations have been carried out in order to cross and prevent criminal activities damaging the state budget. In their course they have been controlled by nearly 500 facilities for the storage and distribution of liquid fuels, shops, warehouses and others. For infringements detected by the control authorities 170 acts of established administrative infringements and 60 protocols of mandatory prescription are drawn up. About 80 thousand liters of liquid fuel distributed on the market has been withdrawn by the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision. The total effect of these measures is 1 billion. 600 million. lv. more revenue for the same period in the budget compared to the same period last year, and 8% level of cigarette smuggling, something that does not have such value in Europe. It's data from an independent source, all cigarette companies that conduct independent research.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u97	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Your line, Mr. Yankoff? You're giving up a line. The next question is from the MP Vili Lilkov about the night terror of the citizens of Sofia by bikers. Professor Lilkov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! My question is about the noise bullying of Sofia's citizens at night by bikers. It is known, Madam Minister, that for years the citizens of Sofia have been subjected to noise terror by bikers, who at night are raging for no reason using this word, on the streets of Sofia, on the streets of Patriarch Evtimiy, on Blvd. "България", български bul. "Vasil Levski", along hospitals and restaurants, in the small streets of Sofia. When the bikers pass on Street. Tsar Asen and Gurgulyat enter people's bedrooms. For years, mass complaints have reached Sofia Municipality, Road Police, Ministry of Interior and the mayors of Sofia and the individual districts. I've asked many questions to the mayor of Sofia. The answer has always been: that is why the Ministry of Interior and Road Police are responsible, we have other functions and other duties. It is known that Sofia is one of the loudest cities in Europe, not only among the capitals, at all between the cities. That's why my question is this. What measures does the Ministry of Interior take to resolve the problem? I would like to hear measures in force, measures that will actually lead to an end to this harassment. Secondly, what fines and penalties did Road Police impose on intruders in the last three years? Thirdly, are legislative changes necessary to improve the effectiveness of the work of the Ministry of Interior and the Road Police to address the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Lilkov. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u100	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear Mr. Lilkov! You know it's part of a police officer's duty to control the availability of silencers. In the case of alerts issued by citizens for infringement, the police authorities shall be treated in a timely manner in order to identify the perpetrator, which is the first task, and to impose the administrative penalty. In order to prevent and prevent any disruption of public order and nocturnal silence, sudden police operations have taken place in places where it is known or suspected that unauthorised competitions have taken place. It should be borne in mind that, due to the lack of technical means, it is not possible to effectively control the level of noise on the ground, it cannot subsequently be established. In this regard, the drivers are accompanied to the registering point of the Department of Road Police in the SDVR, where the necessary technical equipment is available. There is a measurement and, in the event of a detected infringement of individual sound devices, a sanction shall be imposed on the driver, the vehicle shall be stopped by movement due to technical failure. During the first six months of 2016, 44 drivers were identified on the territory of the SVR for the purpose of discussions. On the second issue of the over-the-counter vehicle noise by the Road Police, the SVR has taken the following administrative and criminal measures: for 2015. For the first six months, the number is 21. This year's races and race signals are a lot less. On your third question, in order to improve the work of the Ministry of Interior, it is necessary to prepare legislative changes together with the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Ministry of Health due to the fact that their regulations regulate the permissible noise standards. They need to be examined. Technical equipment for noise level control coming from vehicle silencers is required. At present, with technical equipment to control the operation of vehicle silencers are available only in the SVR and some of the country's district directorates.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Professor Lilkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I strongly disagree and do not accept your answer. What you report as measures taken against these terrorists, I repeat, terrorists, is like a pat on the shoulder. What does it mean to hold him and have a talk with him? It's a promotion for these people. These people don't understand. Literally, they don't understand! Therefore, drastic measures should be taken on this issue. What does it mean to review noise patterns? Noise standards are very good. It's about noise 120 and more decibels. Noise standards are quite at European level. Do you know what a 120 decibel noise is when this bike passes? This is comparable to the sound of a plane taking off if you're near it. And we're gonna have to arrest him, take him and measure the noise of his motorcycle?! It's a mockery, Mrs. Bachvarova! Excuse me, but I really expect a more serious answer from you, and I will bring this question back in. Because the problem isn't solved, it's not really solved. What joint action did you take with Sofia Municipality? How do you work with these people? Why should you only go where they have gatherings? They individually cross Sofia and the police all night, and watch them. When one of these motorcycle runs past a hospital, what happens? Please! Waking up from such an impulsive noise is literally like hitting a bat on the head. And you're gonna talk to these people and pat them on the shoulder literally! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u103	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Right on the back. You're giving up. The next question is from the MP Zhelyo Boychev on the surrender of Abdullah Byuk to the Turkish authorities. Here you are, dear Mr. Boychev, for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 10 August 2016 Bulgaria transmitted to the Turkish authorities Abdullah Byuk. However, I remind you that in February, the Sofia City Court and the Sofia Court of Appeal refused the request of the Turkish State on the grounds that the request for extradition for crimes of general nature was intended to prosecute the person sought on the grounds of his political convictions. A few months later, however, the decisions of the Bulgarian courts turned out to be unnecessary. Mrs. Bachvarova called Buyuk a threat to national security. The police detained him after a routine inspection, cargoes of a car and handed him over to the Turkish border crossing Kapukule. Madam Minister, I would like to remind you that, under the Bulgarian Constitution, our membership in the European Union, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as the Geneva Convention on the Status of Refugees, our country is bound to protect every person in its territory in respect of which there is a risk to his life, to torture, to inhuman and degrading treatment if it is handed over to another country. I consider the case to be exactly the case. I therefore ask you to answer the following questions: what is the eventually imposed measure of Abdullah Buyuk, on the basis of which he was handed over to the Turkish authorities? On what legal basis was it issued and by which authority? What has changed since the decision of the Bulgarian court in February until its surrender to the Turkish authorities? Is the Bulgarian legislation, the law of the European Union and the international legal commitments of our country protected, in particular the Foreigners Act in all its paragraphs concerning this case............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Art. 39, Art. 44 and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u105	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. For an answer is the word of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. There were many questions, but you will be answered at once.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u106	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Boychev, there is no approach to Abdullah Byuk that is different from that of foreigners who have no reason to legally reside on the territory of the country. Different legal procedures are applied, separate from each other. The imposed measure of administrative coercion forcibly led to the border of the Republic of Bulgaria, issued to Mr. Buyuk, is an immigration measure and is related to the exercise of administrative control of residence. The authority which imposed the measure is the Directorate of Migration of the Ministry of Interior and, in particular, its Director in the performance of the functions of the Directorate of Control over the residence of foreigners and in compliance with the provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. The person was aware of the administrative act issued against him, the order and the time limits for appeal in compliance with the legal procedure. The reasons for imposing the immigration measure are as follows. The person had no protection. Mr. Byuk has launched and subsequently refused a procedure at the State Agency for Refugees to obtain refugee status or humanitarian status. An important clarification is given only to persons who have arranged their status on the territory of the State. These are the famous cases from international practice. During the hearing after 8 February last year by the court of the case, Byuk said he had submitted his documents and, in a positive decision of the court, will adopt refugee status. As soon as he gets the positive answer, however, he goes and refuses to receive such status. That's what it means to him to leave his papers. He also refused to leave his documents, which he was found to be registered by Interpol's systems, that they were invalid upon his entry. It is registered with them and is given the opportunity to issue such a document on the territory of the country. In addition to the fact that the foreigner has resided in the territory of the country with invalid identification documents, his stay has not been legal and has not provided at any time when he has also benefited from the protection of lawyers to the competent state authorities for address of residence. During the six months he was in, he was illegally residing with invalid documents, in denial of legitimate procedures. On your second question, on 26 July 2016, a letter was received from the administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, in which information was provided that the Turkish citizen had received a refusal of asylum application. In addition, during the entire period of residence in Bulgarian territory, the person has not taken action to grant humanitarian status or international protection. In practice, after the completion of the asylum procedure, Mr. Byuk had no reason to reside on the territory of the country, and the Turkish citizen could seek another kind of asylum as a refugee and so on. He was informed of his rights and had access to legal aid, but nevertheless made his choice. On the third question, if I may, Mr. Chairman, a little more time to go on, there is another half page. We have preserved both the Bulgarian and European legislation in the implementation of the enforcement measure. The imposition of the forced administrative measure is in line with Council Decision No 329 of the Council of Ministers of 2005 establishing a list of safe countries as well as the Framework Convention under the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the establishment of a common List of safe countries for the purposes of Directive 2013/32/EU of 26 June 2013 on common procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection and the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Turkey on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. The provisions of Directive 2008/115 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on common standards and procedures applicable in the Member States for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals are also preserved. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, § 4 provides that if there is a danger of detection or if the application for a legal stay is rejected as clearly unfounded or misleading or if the person concerned poses a danger to public policy, public or national security, Member States may refrain from granting a period of voluntary departure and take the rapid procedure. I can assure you that there is reliable information that gives us reason to believe that in this case we have acted in the interest of the protection of public order, national security and the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The line, Mr. Boychev. The answer was comprehensive. I allowed and violated the Rules for two whole minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope you have indeed complied with all procedures under the country's legislation and commitments. Madam Minister, however, the feeling in me is quite confusing, and this is perhaps in view of the multi-directional statements that you had about this case. At one point he was declared a person a threat to national security, and this was the order in which his extradition was sought and forced to take him to the border, and then it turned out to be by order of the Director of the Directorate of Migration. After all, the important thing that should remain in the Bulgarian society is that Bulgaria is the rule of law and the rights of each of its citizens, of every resident in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria are guaranteed and protected. Here, the rule of law is fundamental. In me, unfortunately, for this case remains the unpleasant feeling that the constitutional order in the country is one, but when the Prime Minister asks for something, it is implemented immediately. The more unpleasant feeling I have of this case is that all this happened under the pressure and giving of the Turkish side in Mr Erdogan's face. As a Bulgarian citizen and MP, I therefore took the liberty of asking this question and clarifying these circumstances, as we are called here to protect the rule of law and the rights of every Bulgarian citizen residing in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u109	Thank you. Right on the back, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u110	Mr. Boychev, I refrain from commenting on personal feelings. I can tell you that the protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens is an extremely important and fundamental principle for us to protect the national interest, of national security are my responsibility as a minister. We're working on this case long before it's finalized. The information we have and have analysed gives us sufficient reason to take this decision and action, however humanly disturbing it is. We cannot, there are no grounds in the situation we find ourselves in for illegal entry into the country, for people whose identity we find difficult to identify, people who conceal their identity, to make exceptions. There is no reason to make such an exception. I think that in this situation, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior acted and acted under the law and in the interest of national security.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The next question is withdrawn by the MP Yavor Haytov. Now, Mr. Iankov, is your question, which is the last question in the questions to Mrs. Bachvarova, namely about leaving and retired employees from the Ministry of Interior in 2015 and the first half of 2016. Here you are, dear Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, my question is about leaving and retired employees of the Ministry of Interior in 2015 and the first half of 2016. Since the question is asked two months ago, if you are ready, you can also provide information for the first eight months. The issue is about information being submitted by the Ministry's trade unions for leaving employees. Please provide information on the number of retired and retired employees. How many of those left with internship in the Ministry up to five years, up to 10 years, up to 15 years and over 15 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u113	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Madam Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u114	Dear Mr. Yankov, I'm going to have to read a few tables on the subject as you asked us. I have the data, and I think that's the specific approach. For 2015 For the whole year and for 2016 For the first six months. Therefore, I can compare the data for the first six months of 2015 and 2016. For 2015 they left 659, for 2016 "689." For the 2014 you are asking me about, for the same period they are 2554, that is, four times more compared to the last two years. In 2015, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 121 people left with internship up to five years; in 2016 - 131 people. In 2015, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In 2016, 82 people left with an internship of between six and 10 years, 141 people left in 2016. In 2015, we are talking about the first half of the year - 59 people with internship between 11 and 15 years, 117 people in 2016. 397 people with internship over 15 years, who are mainly retired, and 300 people in 2016. I can also provide you with the breakdown of the grounds for leaving. I don't think we've had any extraordinary events since 2014 in this period. Of course, we'll be careful to see what happens by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u115	Mr. Yankov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u116	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, you must be impressed by the large number of people who have already left with experience in the Ministry of Interior for over 10 years, over 15 years, which is extremely disturbing. Built employees of the system are leaving their jobs most likely to start another job, which, how much you have done analysis of this statistic, you can answer in the duplicate, but I think this is about uncertainty, the feeling of workload, as you had the opportunity in plenary of my question to answer that nearly 6000 is the free state of the Ministry of Interior. The handicap leads to excessive workload of the employees. Apart from that, more employees were posted on the resorts than any other year. And this morning, there is a case in Lyulin, which in a few days you will find that it is related to the criminogenic environment and to organised crime, and not a domestic parking space scandal, or a ruckus for a girl, as the professional guide for other incidents explains. You have confirmed that with your consent the powers of the Military Police are expanded with the scope of all Bulgarian citizens, with the powers that the Ministry of Interior has. Prepared personnel leave the system, you allow a new structure to perform the functions you have been appointed as the Ministry of Interior. Do they have the experience that they have gained for 10 years of employees who have grown up in their careers and left as a result of the way the Ministry is led? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u117	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u118	Dear Mr. Yankov, for the second time I will say that feelings do not feel it right to comment on the parliamentary tribune a sense of uncertainty. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Statistics show that there is no significant difference in the dynamics of those leaving except what is happening in 2014. 4 times the size. As for the comments about the military police and the proposal to include it in situations where there is a terrorist threat or possible terrorist act, I think you are not correct enough. This is an opportunity for additional assistance to the employees of whom they would be quite pleased, as well as the result for the whole country, and not the replacement of police officers. I hope that parliamentary style will require some correctness.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova, for your participation in today's parliamentary control. Mr. Vejdi Rashidov is already in the hall. Next are questions and questions to Minister Rashidov. We begin by asking the MPs Georgi Strailov Svilenski and Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev about the policy of the Ministry of Culture for funding the state cultural institutes active in the field of performing arts. Dear colleagues, if you would like to present your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister Rashidov, one of your personal priorities as Minister of Culture is now the reform of theatres. For you it is successful and for your critics it is a financial experiment that has been slowly destroying the theatre logs in Bulgaria for six years. The introduction of delegated budgets as the only way to finance state cultural institutes is at the heart of this reform. This basically means that all costs in one theater, including the payment of salaries, civil contracts, costs of creating creative products, household costs, lighting, heating, water and capital costs, depend on the revenue of the theatre, the tickets sold and the subsidy paid by the State under the single cost standard. This reform, however, puts as the main unit of measurement not the quality of the creative product of the Bulgarian theaters, operas, single-phone and dance compositions, but the number of tickets sold, which were the only criterion for calculating the state subsidy by July 2015. And since then, one year the only criterion is the income from the sale of the sold Bills. The result of the reform led to the fact that in 2015 a large part of the state cultural institutions ended their financial year with a deficit, and from February 2016 eight state cultural institutions, including two with national status, drew up the so-called financial stabilisation programme by you. That the model of the reform of the performing arts is wrong is also confirmed by the fact that, on your proposal and in the middle of the financial year 2015, you changed entirely the philosophy of financing from number of tickets sold to lev from the proceeds of a sold ticket. The financial indicators from the first quarter of 2016 show again that this change leads to an increase in prices for the sale of theatre tickets, which should certainly be high because art is an expensive product, but it is also certain that Bulgarian citizens, unfortunately for me, do not have the opportunity to separate from their family budget as much as Bulgarian stage art deserves. I will conclude with a quote and an assessment of you in the 2014 Ministry of Culture report: However, the implementation of the funding methodology of the stage institutes has led to both an increase in viewers and ticket revenues and some negatives related to the lack of financial resources set out in the budget. The trend for commercialising repertoires continues at the expense of high artistic searches. Our question is: one year after the change based on the funding of state cultural institutes, what does the analysis of the main parameters under which the state subsidy is paid show, and what will be the policy of the Ministry of Culture to overcome the financial deficit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u121	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Svilensky, Mr. Mirchev! I would like to give you a brief answer to this question. I see that you are concerned about the Bulgarian theatre, but clearly you do not understand the principles of the existence of the world and European theatre. Before I became a minister during some management at the time, I can prove it to you with documents, 80% of the theaters were on unpaid steam, unpaid electricity and unpaid wages. 80%! Write it down. The same theaters, the statistics show that one of them will not say the name, because now it works very well, there were three and a half performances a month, in 30 days. The month of August was running out of the theater budget because it was the easiest management! There's been some annual budgets, and they're running out of them by August, and from August there's an outpouring of audiences. Today, thanks to slowly starting to realize the market principle, we are going to go out among viewers. This is the market principle, so don't be surprised, otherwise salaries are paid by the Bulgarian taxpayer, and the artistic product is also a product. Not to give you examples of how an actor somewhere without a fee of 20 million doesn't play. It's the only place we're chasing the art act, and we've got community centers for that. The theatres started doing 27 shows a month. Yes, of course, performing arts should also have revenue, not just expenses. It is a total mistake, a total artistic act, if you want to turn Bulgarian artists into amateurs. It's a profession from which we feed our families. Now I'm going to ask you a question back here: do you know how many state theaters there are in 60 million Italy? The answer is zero. Check it out. How many state theaters are there in 60 million France? I can tell you who they are. How many are there in Austria 12 million? Zero. How many in Spain? Four. In 40 million Poland? Four. 54 state theatres we have, a colleague, and we have to go a really serious way to reform our theaters, make them convertible. You're saying, "There's been a lot of performances." I'm asking, which one of the Sofia or rural theaters is a show? One point you asked me is that they have names. Is it bad, or all the other performances in the Satira, in 199 or in the Tears? This is neither useful for the Bulgarian theatre, nor are you useful for the Bulgarian culture. It's political talk. I have asked you a hundred times: when you talk about Bulgarian culture, get out of politics a little bit. I once defended Radichkov because once again the politicians accused him of being a communist. No, he's a genius! I don't measure them by their political, party affiliations. Therefore, I ask you: if you want to assist the Bulgarian theatre and the reform to move forward... People are giving their DMS right now, the viewers are back! After all, there is no theater in the city for the decorations of Bulgarian citizens need to watch art and theatre. They're back in the halls. Colleague, we've been chewing on this food for almost five years. Five years! Help me, all the MPs, the municipalities to start taking their theatricals, to keep them warm, cozy, and the state to allocate millions of funds, as it is by European standards, on a project basis. And then from the parliament you will not talk to me about the salaries of Bulgarian artists! They're not that bad, but they're not the best. I wish, as Minister, their salaries were very good. The great Bulgarian artists do not deserve to be poor! That's the truth. Only then help the state to give. Not to talk to you here for the fifth year on the salaries of artists, but to the creativity of artists, to give money on a project basis. The state won't abdicate things. Please, and the municipalities aren't ready to do it. 54 theaters of a 6-million-dollar state! What are we talking about? Italy has five professional operas we have seven! France has three philharmonics, one is on a fundraising principle, the other is a private philharmonic and one state we have eight! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Please. I am telling you this, very concerned about the future of the theatre. Please do not have a political attitude to all that is a very serious way for the Bulgarian artist.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Svilensky, are you going to ask the two additional questions? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, I will ask two additional questions, but there is no way in the two minutes that I have that I do not take account of what you said. As Minister of Culture, you certainly understand perhaps more from us than culture, but for concern I think everyone has the right to be concerned, even more as MPs from Sofia, in whose territory most of the cultural institutions are. So our concern will continue to exist. Do not find this our attitude as a political attack or any political action, whether they related to elections or after. We just want to contribute together Bulgarian artists, Bulgarian culture, Bulgarian theatres, performing arts to work peacefully and receive what they deserve, and therefore the Bulgarian citizens to receive the necessary product. Are we useful? Since you said that with these actions the colleague is not useful for the Bulgarian culture, I still say that every MP in this Chamber is useful, as well as you as a minister. The two additional and supplementary questions that I would like to ask, although the first one you did not answer as expected, the colleague will then express: At the end of 2014, the Ministry of Culture paid to the State Cultural Institutes all the subsidy that was due to them, or this debt of the Ministry to the Cultural Institutes was paid by means of the additional allocation by the Ministry of Finance 10 million. lv. only in September 2015? The second supplementary question is: are the programmes for financial stabilisation of the eight state-owned cultural institutions implemented and are they continuing to accumulate a financial deficit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u125	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer to the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Speaking emotionally, let's not politicize, I would like to tell you that as an artist and an artist, I am concerned about the college. I love my colleagues and I know that when I leave the post of Minister, I will not be among you very often, but I will be among my colleagues. When I leave, I want to go as a worthy colleague of theirs. That's what I've been trying to do for seven years, and I'm gonna give you a lot of credit from Georgi Yordanov so far. You're right about that. Thank you for understanding me. I'm not attacking you on the contrary, I'm talking emotionally about the fate of some people who have to improve everyone. Help me become a municipal so we can already give money for creativity, that's what I meant, for a cultural, spiritual product. It's true, in the time of Mr. Oresharski I had a deficit of 5 million. lv. That's true. Of course this deficit was created in my day. I'll give you an example. A wonderful theater, like the musical theater, as I was leaving, you can check it out, had 600,000. lv. leftover money, de facto profit. When I left, they had 500 and thousands of leva deficit. Somewhere the controls are out of control. Yes, of course, there are gaps where they trick. Let's be honest, I say this with respect to the college. Everyone in this country, where they can, is a hit. This deficit had to be covered for a simple reason that in December I never sent Bulgarian artists without a salary for Christmas! It was unacceptable. Thanks to Minister Vladislav Goranov, I prayed to Prime Minister Borisov that I need to cover this deficit as it concerns the fate and lives of living people. Thanks for giving me $5 million. And some 5 million above we took to cover the deficit on monuments of culture to people have promised them, they have dug and they have not been paid archaeology. I mean, when I say they have dug. The more public there is, the more money he needs. You remember well, Mr. Djankov used to tell us: "Make reform." I dared to do it because we're going to give money for reform. Please, when we accept the budget all together in this hall.. you know that an audience is already entering the Bulgarian theatre, in the Bulgarian museums, we regularly have a report: raise the budget of this empty Ministry, which is always the last place as a derth, and at first we have a report before elections. We all take pictures with famous people. Then you'll take a picture with the famous people and when you leave. This photo will be an indication that we worked for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u127	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear colleagues, you have the opportunity to take an attitude towards the answers. Here you go, according to procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Unfortunately, I am not satisfied with the answer, as I have not heard an analysis of the question that we have made about the way of funding. On top of that, in the first part of the answer, I heard qualifications that I think do not suit you to do them to the people's representation. You are also talking about reforms, but you have been a Minister of Culture for over five years in both mandates and you may be one of the most responsible people for these reforms. It is no coincidence that we ask you these questions because there was a large series of written questions that we sent to your office, but we received constantly contradictory and false data. On several occasions, we had to ask the same thing even to get to the real information. Let's not forget, however, that the performing arts also bring revenue to your ministry over 18 million. I'm saying all this because the last question I asked you was about the Louvre contract. You hid it in the form that it was confidential, and you know that the MPs have the right to read these types of contracts. There's a secret section. Things are quite hidden in your ministry. Three months you don't answer if there is a draft National Strategy for Cultural Development. The real cultural monuments of Bulgaria burn, fall apart, and some of them even since yesterday we see them and sell them. You say there's no money, but why doesn't the Ministry of Finance ask for the money he's entitled to on the line of gambling? Your Ministry refuses, unlike Mr. Kralev, the Ministry of Sports gets that money. Why doesn't the Ministry of Culture get them? We didn't hear an analysis. Things are getting worse in the performing arts. The money is short, that is to say, an analysis of the situation and to make really some kind of reform that you are responsible for. We are ready as MPs to help if it is for the good of art. We'll keep asking our colleagues questions. [[the President signals that time has run out]] because finally work must be done in your office, because the revival of the Bulgarian spirit begins through the revival of culture. Thank you and I hope you will take the measures that the performing arts need.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u129	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. The next question to Minister Rashidov is from the MPs Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on intentions to finance the renovation of the Buzludzha Monument with budgetary and/or European funds. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Indeed, our question concerns an information that appeared in the public domain at the end of August about a possible intention to finance the repair of the so-called BCP Monument, which is located on Buzludzha peak, also known as the China. Dear Minister, years ago the so-called House Monument of the BCP at Buzludzha peak was offered free of charge to BSP as the successor of the Bulgarian Communist Party, but from there they refused to accept their own creation and become the owner of it. It has recently been announced in the public domain that around 85 million. European funds under the Programme "Regions in Growth" it is possible, a large part, to be aimed at repairing this so-called House-Monument of the BCP at Buzludzha peak. Eventually similar intentions of the executive are awakening in Bulgaria, and in many citizens, serious concern given that, first of all, Bulgaria traditionally lacks the money for culture and preservation of cultural monuments, as examples of the destroyed tobacco warehouse, then the burnt tobacco warehouses in Plovdiv are probably the freshest example. At the same time, this huge amount should be wasted on something which was built by the people who were forced into funds, the so-called voluntary contributions, the people who remember how they were collected before 1989, i.e. voluntary, but not quite, plus that state funds were then given to build this monument of the communist order in praise, I would add, to a criminal organisation declared criminal by law. Secondly, the object in question has no status of cultural value. We ask: should it still be spent on it by the Bulgarian or European taxpayer, provided that the funds for culture are chronically lacking, as I have already said? Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the following question: Is funding with budget and/or European funds of repairs and other activities under the House-monument of the BCP at Buzludzha peak and, if so, to what extent and on what basis, since this so-called Chinya is not a cultural monument, and does the Ministry of Culture intend to grant it such status? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Dear Minister Rashidov, you have the opportunity to answer this question. It has been placed on you several times in the Committee on Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am glad that as a trio, you ask me a good question again in one voice. Colleagues, I'll give you a brief answer with my full respect. There is no status as a cultural monument, the Ministry does not intend to finance the renovation and, of course, I will tell you how the discussion happened, which is why you are asking this question today. One young girl decided to improve this architecture so that something else could happen so it wouldn't fall apart. Of course, here very responsible I will say that the architect of this thing is alive and healthy, if you remove the pentagram by itself it is a plastic, good architectural form, it is a very talented architect and, of course, inside were the mosaics, by forgetting the portrait of Comrade Zhivkov, Lenin, Marx, these are mosaics of extremely great masters of Bulgarian painting. I have to tell you this. I lived with these people, I studied with some of them, so there are some things that are valuable as a work. Let's make that difference! A young girl decides to improve. But with a living architect, in a ready-to-be architectural given, it's not right to do it that way. This is done at least everything can be done, it is enough to do right. A consultation with the Union of Architects shall be conducted first to see what they think. All of this has been done in fusion with a commission between architects and the Union of Artists, because there are also a lot of monumental ones, and at least with the Union of Artists must be done, and the living architect, if he agrees from one to another, to be a living organism where something happens, yes, of course, why can't decisions be made? In this case, it was planted on a visit by the mayor, the same young girl, talented, tossing the mayor that for two million it will happen, but for two million, who will protect it, who will pay the electricity, who will maintain the cleanliness, and at the very least, what will this building do at two million? There's gotta be some kind of function. There used to be some kind of function, so it was made. The Prime Minister then says a line that journalists have been hooked on: "Let's stop the destruction! And I want to stop the destruction. It's not going to be financed. No one's ever brought this up before. What I did, I brought together the Union of Architects, the artists, the living architect, the young girl to discuss and talk about this topic. It's not an artistic act. In fact, I suggest something more: we need to make expert government committees, we need to stop the self-activity in the country, because tomorrow we will see a monument swearing at our mother and it will cause media interest. The silent ones don't challenge. But quality in the urban environment is not free space. Artistic qualities cannot be determined by random people or politicians. Today money tells us where to find something, but it's a kitsch. Let's watch out for the kicha! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u133	Thank you for your answer, dear Minister. Which of the three colleagues will make a line? Mr. Metodi Andreev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u134	Mr. Minister, we, as a civil quota, have always agreed. The answer is clear and I personally believe that your position on funding is correct, but I can also suggest that you consider it in the direction that you gave as an idea. First of all, this monument was once a contemporary, most likely, and you remember that it was financed by Bulgarian citizens. They collected forcibly, allegedly voluntary money from the Bulgarian then working people. Of course, something gives the then BCP. This monument is related to the history of a criminal Communist party, no matter how valuable these mosaics are, which, by the way, have been destroyed. There's nothing left of them. To be exact! It should be given to the party itself to manage it. There's a lot of oligarchs in there. There are some of the richest people in the country, not to mention the thefts that are related to the history of BCP before November 10th and after November 10th. Let them give, if they are Bulgarians, a proper tract, let us see that they have changed. For example, I give the idea to become a monument to Bulgarian geniuses. Bulgaria has extremely ingenious people who have been repressed during their regime "John Atanasov, Akad." Najakov the person who discovered the photoelectric effect at the base of all the copiers. The guy who built the module, the download engine, the download module of the moon, NASA's American program. Not to mention that recently a Bulgarian physicist discovered a unique X-ray laser. There are at least 50 known explorers in Bulgaria. If they are a Bulgarian party and if they have drawn their conclusions from history, today on their 9th September they should give a real new idea for this monument if they want Bulgaria to unite. That's what I'm doing to you and to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u135	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. A hole, Minister Rashidov. Here you go. A lot of ideas have been given.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Andreev, remember, you asked me a question about the museum of Todor Zhivkov in Pravets. As Minister of Culture, you didn't ask me correctly. If you'd asked me if there was an ideology in the museum, any kind of museum, when they asked me the question, I'd check it out and report it to you. The word "museum" is a sacred thing. The word church is a sacred thing and people who build museums and churches remain in history. So it's not so dramatic what the museum's name is. That's why I said it's nice not to design politicians because we've already designed some glowing eyes, now a talking horse, tomorrow swearing there's gonna be... Colleagues, let's leave and make expert advice. In Bulgaria professionals have the right to professional opinion. You know, you guys, there was a lot of fuss going around the Largo when you were doing it. There's a nice Largo today. Starting tomorrow, the day after tomorrow we open the season and there will be events. There's the Largo, and it's very nice. Such a ruckus made some amateur people who didn't plant wood. I sometimes wonder of my young friend. First, a tree needs to be planted, folks, then let's talk about forest. If they hadn't knocked down the Mausoleum, I would be making money for culture today. I'm not hiding it. And I was going to order in Madame Tuso two models of Georgi Dimitrov. One of them was gonna be jerked off for backup. Except we're tearing everything down without building one thing. That's why I don't want to allow it while I'm a minister. I say: I'm not a party functionary, and I'm running away from ideological speaking. It is not right for Bulgarian culture. Therefore, everything can be done to make state expert committees, to assign experts as wise men, as Largo had six architects [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Please, anything can be done, I agree. Yeah, ideology has to come out of museums. That's why I agree. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. This has run out of questions for you. Have a good day. [[National Representative Stoyan Mirchev wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] On what grounds, Mr. Mirchev? [[Reply from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]] No, no, Mr. Mirchev, these are your... [[National Representative Stoyan Mirchev insists on taking the floor for a personal explanation.]] Please, I won't let you in the stands. You have no reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u138	I'm entitled to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u139	You have no right to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u140	He turned to me himself.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u141	He didn't call you by name. Please refer to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u142	He pointed at me and said, "The young colleague..."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u143	Please refer to the Rules of Procedure, and if you are right, after the next question, I will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u144	No, no, a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u145	No, I don't give you my word.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u146	I'm telling you, I'm the young colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u147	It's your subjective feeling. Please don't make a scene. Sit down, refer to the regulations. We'll talk about it. [[Reply from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev.]] If there's any reason, then I'll give you the floor. Next, a question to Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports. Actually, it's two questions. The first will be set by the MP Vasil Antonov for participation of Bulgarian chess players in the Forty-second Chess Olympics in Baku. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u148	Thank you. Minister Rashidov has left, otherwise I had a proposal too. However, Mr. Andreyev is here if the king's stable had not been sold, it could have been the proposal for the house he commented on being located there. But it's not too late, Minister Rashidov, with 500 grand. lv. to buy the place back. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, the question I asked to you on 27 July on the eve of the Olympics in Brazil was regarding what was currently taking place from 1 September to 14 September in the capital of Azerbaijan, Baku, chess Olympiad. My question to you was: what is your attitude with regard to the participation of Bulgarian chess teams for men and women at the Olympics and in general what is your attitude towards chess? My reasons were several in this direction. Firstly, in my conversation with the management at the end of July, I was under the impression that the Bulgarian teams would not participate in the Olympics because we could not raise funds. I speak as a member of the Board of Directors, I mean this for the audience we could not raise funds. That's first. My second concern came from another very serious fact that in 2015 Bulgaria did not have representatives of the European Chess Championship for men and women. I would like to mention several occasions that give Bulgaria a reason for its great pride in chess. First, Bulgaria is one of the three countries that has world champions Topalov and Stefanova, in both categories of men and women. One of the three sides! To date quite current in the rankings for children from 8 to 18 years complex for girls and boys, Bulgaria is second in the world after India, with the great powers such as Russia, China, USA and more than 120 countries following us. For 2015 a Bulgarian girl from the village of Krepcha in the municipality of Popovo [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In ten days he will go to Russia as an up-to-date champion who will fight to defend his title by the age of 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u149	Excuse me for interrupting the specific question, please. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u150	I understand. I'll be done in half a minute. We also have other successes, of course. For 2016, we have bronze for women at the European "Antoaneta Stefanova," up to 14 years of this year we have silver - second place for children at the European Championship without passing the world championships. My specific question to you: what is your attitude towards Bulgarian chess? It is already clear that Bulgarian athletes participate in the Olympics, which takes place during these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u151	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. I gave you a minute to elaborate your question. Here you go, Mr. Kralev. The Minister for Youth and Sports will answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u152	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, thank you for this question because it is at an extremely important time for Bulgarian chess. My attitude towards this sport is what it should be to a sport that has huge traditions in Bulgaria. Bulgaria has always been one of the leading world powers in chess. This is a trend that has been going on for many years. Unfortunately, as in other sports, interbreeds inside the Chess Federation prevent athletes from fully deploying their capabilities. I sincerely hope that this process will end as soon as possible and I will make every effort to assist Bulgarian chess players to find a common language. Many leaders of other federations were able to suppress their personal egos and, for the sake of the development of the sport, to lend their hand and to go in one direction together and to perform the main functions that a federation should do, namely: providing conditions for the preparation of young athletes, the realization of elite athletes and so on. You know, Bulgarian chess has many challenges, there are projects to include chess as a discipline for studying in Bulgarian schools, which is an idea that I welcome. Needless to comment on the functions and importance of this sport for young people. Undoubtedly, you can rely on the Ministry's support, but I will clarify the question you asked. The Bulgarian Chess Federation has applied with a project for financial support under the approved programs of the Ministry of Youth and Sports. A contract was signed with the Ministry of 27 January 2016 and an Additional Agreement of 12 February 2016 included and included the World Chess Championship in Azerbaijan. Unfortunately, as a result of an inspection carried out by the Inspectorate under art. 64, a report has been produced and financial support of the Federation has been suspended on the basis of an order of 16 March 2016. Following a number of meetings between representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Bulgarian Chess Federation, an application was made by the Federation requesting the signing of an Agreement for deferred payment of the monetary obligation. On the basis of the signed Agreement on deferral of liabilities, funding and support for the sport activities of the Federation has been resumed. For September, funds were made on request, including funds for participation of the national team men and women at the World Chess Team Championship at the Forty-second Chess Olympiad. The World Chess Team Championship is the most elite male and female team competition of the World Chess Federation and is taking place from 1 to 14 September in Baku, Azerbaijan, continuing at the moment. Bulgaria participates with representative teams in the team: men.Veselin Topalov, Valentin Yotov, Momchil Nikolov, Krassimir Rusev and Martin Petrov, women..Antoaneta Stefanova, Iva Videnova, Adriana Nikolova, Elitsa Raeva and Margarita Voyska. To date, chess parties are running and information is expected about the ranking of national chess players at the World Team Championship. The Ministry of Youth and Sports monitors the presentation of Bulgarian national chess contestants. With good rankings in 2016 are Grandmaster Antoinette Stefanova, who won the bronze medal at the European individual women's championship and second place we have for Gabriela Antova at the European individual championships for adolescents and girls until the age of 18. The current state we see is that we have rankings that confirm and defend the good name and honor of Bulgaria, which has undisputed traditions in the world chess.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u153	Thank you, dear Minister. In the back you can further develop the answer. Here's a line for you, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I really thank you for being very motivated, I suppose not only from my question, but you have taken an attitude and indeed for a short time we have managed to make this organization, mainly with your support, to send our chess players to the Olympics in Azerbaijan. In addition, however, there is another unpleasant, very unpleasant fact. In the Assembly to be held, this is the management body of the European Federation, including 7 on 10 September is included: Suspension and exclusion of the Bulgarian Chess Federation. I understood that literally a week ago. I used my time this week to send personal letters to Mr. Macropolis. This is the Vice President of the World Federation, and of Mr Azmayparasvili of Georgia, who is the President of the European Federation. I have stopped my attention to the fact that the personal conflicts that exist in a Federation should not be transferred, and they are not only with us, in ours, the Bulgarian Federation, but also between the European Federation and the World Federation, should not be transferred and, as a result, suspended, our Federation should be excluded from participation. I count very much that you will take an attitude to the 10th, and you will also be able to have individual conversations. I have also had conversations with my colleagues in these parliaments from these countries, because they are Orthodox countries and we also rely on them to support. Last fact, which is the Bulgarian Federation was established on 15 April 1928. Why do I say the date? Because by coincidence, our country was struck by the devastating Chirpan earthquake. However, our Federation, the founders succeed and establish the Federation. Now, years later, we have a really big danger on September 10th. We rely on your intervention and on our joint efforts to be able to save the Federation, and then in a close period of time to solve the problems that are pressing. Thank you for your answer and for your attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u155	And thank you for the line, Mr. Antonov. Do you want a hole? No. We continue with the next question to Mr. Krasen Kralev, Minister of Youth and Sports. He is one of the people representatives Willi Lilkov and Petar Slavov and is related to a failure in the Ordinance on the terms and conditions for spending the funds to finance approved projects of non-profit legal entities for activities for socially responsible conduct under art. 10a of the Gambling Act. Mr. Lilkov, you're on the stand. Please develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u156	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Our colleague Petar Slavov and I ask this question with the desire to create an additional opportunity for sports clubs in Bulgaria to have access to funding. Where are the possibilities, how do we see them? It's about this question that I'm asking you. Dear Minister Kralev, according to art. 10a of the Gambling Act Gambling Organizers are obliged to make annual contributions for socially responsible behaviour that are included in the budget of the State Gambling Commission. Some of them are envisaged and spent on financing projects of non-profit legal entities designated for carrying out public utility activities for activities that concern: protecting young people from gambling, prevention and treatment of gambling addiction, conducting socially responsible advertising and marketing. A special regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers in August 2015 determines how these funds are spent, as well as the procedure for assessing and monitoring the implementation of the funded projects. The review of this regulation shows that eligible activities and criteria for assessing project proposals do not allow sports clubs and sports associations to apply and their projects to be financed for these purposes. However, it is known that sport is perhaps the most powerful means of preventing addictions and advertising and guaranteeing a healthy lifestyle, which is why we believe that a serious omission has been made in the regulation. In relation to the above, as well as to the fact that para. 4 of art. 10a of the Gambling Act provides, note this regulation is adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Health, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Youth and Sports. This is why we ask you the following questions: were first representatives of the Ministry of Youth and Sports involved and who in the Commission for evaluation and definition of the financing of the projects proposed under art. 10a of the Gambling Act? What is the allocation amount for 2015? And what is most important: are you planning to initiate changes to the regulation under art. 10a of the Gambling Act so that sport is included among the activities to protect young people from gambling, to prevent and treat gambling addiction and to conduct socially responsible advertising and marketing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u157	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov, for the question. Reply from the Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Krasen Kralev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u158	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov and Mr. Slavov! The Gambling Act provides for an obligation for gamblers to make annual contributions to socially responsible behaviour, which revenues are entered under the budget of the State Gambling Commission. In this regard, the budget of the State Gambling Commission provides and spends funds to finance approved projects of non-profit legal entities designated for carrying out public utility activities. Each year by 31 January, the State Gambling Commission shall decide on: first, the Annual Plan for Social Responsibility, including the regulatory activities for its implementation; second, the allocation of funds for the current year for the individual activities for socially responsible conduct and the maximum amount for financing individual projects for each of the activities for socially responsible conduct. It should be noted that a representative of the Ministry of Youth and Sports is only involved in the evaluation and selection phase of the gaming procedure announced by the Commission for the submission of project proposals and is legally established in the Ordinance in which the composition of the Commission for the evaluation and selection of submitted project proposals is regulated. The Ministry of Youth and Sports participates with one representative in the Commission of seven members, and the Head of Legal and Normal Information Service is appointed as a representative of the Ministry in 2015. The Commission shall examine the submitted projects and assess whether they comply with the requirements of the Ordinance and the application guidelines. In this way, it limits those who are subject to funding. The decisions to finance the projects, respectively the refusal to finance, are taken by the State Gambling Commission. The Ministry of Youth and Sports does not have information on the allocation of social and responsible behaviour activities. As regards eligible activities, the Gambling Act and the Ordinance regulate three large groups of activities for socially responsible behaviour that are eligible for funding. Activities such as development of educational programs, programs to support social integration, personal realization and conduct various types of social rehabilitation are eligible for funding. It is in such programs and processes that sports, physical education and all forms of physical activity have their organic presence. Therefore, projects involving various forms of sport and physical activity as a means of countering gambling and gambling dependence should not be excluded as eligible for funding under the Ordinance. The beneficiaries who can be financed under the Ordinance under the Gambling Act, the Ordinance and the Guidelines for Application for 2015 drawn up by the State Gaming Commission are all non-profit legal entities registered under the Law on Non-profit Legal Entities for the pursuit of public benefit activities and registered in the central register at the Ministry of Justice. The regulation regulates a wide range of entities and activities that can be financed, as countering gambling and gambling dependence can be implemented through diverse activities and should cover the maximum possible variety of activities. Sports clubs and sports associations have the opportunity to apply with projects and to be financed for the so-called activities of socially responsible behaviour. Neither sports organisations nor sports as activities are excluded from this scope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u159	Thank you, Minister Kralev. The line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I definitely disagree. In the application guidelines and in the methodological rules laid down in this Regulation, the word "sport" is not present. The words "sport clubs" are also not present. I argue definitely that it is a omission of your predecessor, who was obliged under the Gambling Act to participate in the Commission on the drawing up of this Ordinance, has made a mistake. Currently, only non-governmental organisations that have a narrow range of activities financed this year can be financed under this Ordinance. You also didn't answer me what the amount of funds that were allocated was. I'll tell you. One and a half million leva are allocated for responsible behavior to gambling. If I told you that I laughed with a voice when I read the activities that some NGOs have planned on this subject, you wouldn't believe me! Perhaps a single project made sense in the Varna prison. All the other projects were just funny. We are talking about projects of a size of 150 000. lv. for the conduct of historical studies and publication of leaflets and distribution of materials. But that's another question. I am ready as Vice-President of the Commission for Youth and Sports together with my fellow experts from the Ministry to make additions to this Ordinance. You have reason to submit it and change the Regulation so that we can access this serious resource by providing access to sports clubs. My goal is: do you agree to work together and change the Regulation so that really sports clubs can apply? I think they can't apply right now, and if any of them apply, they'll be rejected. I will ask a separate question to the Minister of Finance, as there are serious suspicions that the 1.5 million. BGN, which are allocated for responsible behavior to gambling, are aimed at companies related to gambling bosses. It is obtained that instead of money going for socially responsible behavior and sports projects for prevention of addiction, they return to where they were taken from the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u161	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Minister Kralev, you have the opportunity for a duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u162	Dear Mr. Lilkov, as we have established, this process is under the jurisdiction of the State Gambling Commission. If you and your colleagues see an obstacle in the Regulation or a limitation of funding of sports clubs and organisations, I strongly stand behind your idea of changing the Regulation so that sports clubs and organisations are equal to other non-governmental organisations in obtaining funding in this order. I firmly believe that sports and sports clubs can be very useful to overcome gambling addictions. Attention should be paid in this direction. If you have any ideas and suggestions, you can count on my unconditional support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u163	Thank you, Minister Kralev. That was the last question for you. We wish you a good Friday afternoon. We continue with further questions from fellow Members of the National Assembly. They are to Nikolai Nenchev. The first question will be asked by the National Representative Atanas Zafirov and is about the further functioning of the Hospital for Rehabilitation, Long-term Treatment and Rehabilitation. Georgy the Victorious... Pomorie. Mr. Zafirov, you're welcome to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question concerns the further functioning of the hospital for healing, long-term treatment and rehabilitation. Georgi a winner in the town of Pomorie. Before I ask it, I will make one clarification. This question was asked three months ago in connection with the public domain doubts that the hospital is going to liquidation and closure. In those three months, there has been some development in the case. I'm familiar with it, but I'm still going to ask the question, and in the additional question, I'm going to make a point. Dear Minister, in recent times some media and Internet space have been alerted to the closure of the Hospital for curing, continuous treatment and rehabilitation in the town of Pomorie. In this regard, my question is: are you aware of the circumstances and the real state of the hospital? What actions do you intend to take to rehabilitate and continue the activities of this medical facility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Zafirov. Minister Nenchev, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u166	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zafirov, thank you for your question. We have already had an opportunity in the Defence Committee to comment on this case, but let me give you a closer look at the actions we have taken. With a report to me, the head of the Military Medical Academy suggested that the hospital for healing, long-term treatment and rehabilitation, which is part of the MMA, be closed down. The reasons for this proposal are the poor economic performance of the hospital, the heavily depreciated building fund and equipment, the lack of funds for capital repairs and work in a highly competitive environment. You are well aware that substantial funds are needed to take action in the research, design and implementation of major repairs on all parts of the building front. The building in Pomorie does not meet the requirements of Decree No 49 of 18 October 2010 and Decree No 30 of 19 July 2004 of the Ministry of Health. It does not have the necessary number of medical professionals, does not have the necessary equipment, the presence of depreciated equipment does not meet requirements of the NHIF. I assure you that I am aware of the condition in which the hospital is located and of the negative social effect that would cause its closure. I've never had that question before. In this regard, I have appointed a working group to carry out an analysis and propose a version of the reorganization of the structure of the MMA. Based on the proposed options in the report of the Working Group, the deputy defence minister was tasked to submit a reasoned version to the Defence Council for further disposal of the base in Pomorie. At a regular meeting of the Defence Council on 5 July 2016, for which you have information, a decision was taken on the restructuring of the Military Medical Academy, such as the Hospital for Rehabilitation, Long Treatment and Rehabilitation in Pomorie was taken from its composition and the property was imported into the capital of the commercial company Vita. This company also carries out identical activities and its principal is the Minister of Defence. With this decision, the hospital in Pomorie will remain state property. Over the next few years, recovery and repair activities will be carried out gradually and depending on the possibilities. We have planned to preserve the staff of the hospital, as well as the social function of access to servicemen, civil servants from the Ministry of Defence, the Bulgarian Army and the structures of direct submission to the Minister of Defence. Veterans, military casualties and war victims can also use the base, at current prices, I would like to emphasise that. In the mid-term, phased and depending on our capabilities, reconstruction and repair activities will be carried out, which means that we are preserving the hospital, and its functions will be maintained, as we have said in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u167	Thank you, Mr. Nenchev. You were extremely accurate in terms of time. Mr. Zafirov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u168	Mr. Minister, I have had the opportunity in the Commission, and I would like to thank you from this tribune for your response and the efforts made to save the Hospital for healing and long-term treatment and rehabilitation. George the Victorious in Pomorie. We are aware that this sounded somewhat and in your reply that this is a temporary solution. I'd like to ask you two more questions. You answered the first one to some extent, but if you could be a little more specific: what kind of funding does the Ministry provide for these urgent repairs, especially in the building fund and medical equipment, before the acquisition by "VITA" to create at least normal working conditions and functioning in a market environment, because they are currently insane? The second, more important or more precisely, no less important question is: what are the reasons why the hospital in Pomorie is allowed to be brought to its present state? Do you think there is a guilty action or inaction by the leadership of the Military Medical Academy? If so, what responsibility should be sought? If I may, a recommendation. Dear Minister, the hospital in Pomorie realized most of its revenue from the reception and treatment of patients under the NSI Programme. Unfortunately, once the hospital becomes part of the VITA "Velingrad," it will not be able to take the opportunity provided for in art. 5, para. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions. In this regard, I ask for your assistance to do everything necessary for commercial companies where the owner of the capital is the Ministry of Defence and who are authorised to carry out medical activities, rehabilitation by the Minister of Health, to be able to work under the NSI Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u169	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. And you've been extremely ecstatic over time, and I owe it to you to point it out. Here's your coat, Mr. Minister Nenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u170	Dear Mr. Zafirov, first of all, let me inform you that the deadline that we have set in the Defence Council's decision is five months. Within five months, this procedure must be completed. Indeed, I am very well aware of the state of the hospital, since I visited this medical establishment at the beginning of the term and found out for myself on the spot. Indeed, the conditions are terrifying. We are doing our best, we will provide the necessary funds, as I have already mentioned, probably in several stages, as they are not foreseen in the Ministry's budget for this year. I hope that at the end of the year, if there are surpluses, some of them will be directed in this direction. I am already making the necessary efforts and we have provided for the preparation between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Health of a joint Draft for a decree of the Council of Ministers. Secondly, we provide for amendments to the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the MMA. Thirdly, we have made a draft amendment to the Ministerial Decree No 45 of 2001 for the designation of the Military Medical Academy as a medical establishment under art. 5, para. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions and of its specific function of healing and healing. Thank you, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u171	Thank you, Dear Minister Nenchev. Next is a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev about placing a memorial plaque on Mount Kaimakchalan for the eternal glory and deep bow to the heroes of the Bulgarian Army for National Unity. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House. In May, soldiers from the Bulgarian Army on their own initiative placed a plaque, a very small monumental sign, I do not know if you have seen it, Mr. Minister. It looks something like that. [[shows photo]] for Eternal glory and deep worship to the heroes of the Bulgarian Army, gave their lives for the national communion in the fights of Kaimakchalan in 1916. For those who are not aware, I would like to remind you that "Kaymakchalan" is the highest peak of Nice Mountain, which is located at the border between the Republic of Macedonia and Greece. During World War I, Kaimakchalan and the surrounding peaks became the arena of fierce clashes and battles. At the end of August and the beginning of September over six thousand Bulgarian soldiers and officers climbed to the top. At the beginning of October 1916, less than 800 of them came down from the top. Everyone else has been killed, injured or mutilated. This battle will remain forever in the memory and sacred history of Bulgaria. A story that is doomed to be made at the tops. Mr. Minister, I understand that I have been informed that your ministry officials have taken the liberty of asking for an explanation from the Bulgarian servicemen who have placed this memorable sign on this summit. So I also ask you the question: is this true? If so, who are these employees? I would like to understand your position on this act of gratitude, which was carried out by the Bulgarian servicemen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Here you are, Minister Nenchev, to answer and comment on the question asked. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u174	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, thank you! It is extremely timely since we are both today and tomorrow and next week celebrating the anniversary of World War I. You mentioned historical facts, little known and unknown about Bulgarian history. We've already made a presentation of the book, Kamakchalan, at the Military Academy, I suppose you know. We have taken initiatives to make such a presentation throughout the country. You ask me what my attitude is: extremely positive, Mr. Boychev. Not only will I not reproach the servants who have committed this noble act, but I will also reward them in this capacity. [[Applause from the BSP Group LB.]] In just a few days we will be there to celebrate the memory of these worthy Bulgarian warriors who made it impossible to defend the honor of Bulgaria. We will, I hope, together with my Serbian colleague and why not with my Macedonian colleague to show solidarity and that we have learned from history. Thank you again for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u175	We'll come too.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u176	Here you go. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u177	Thank you, Minister Nenchev, for your answer. Let's hear Mr. Boychev's attitude to this case. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u178	I must say, I am extremely pleased with what you have said, Mr. Minister. Honestly, I didn't even see that coming. The fact is that these days are really 100 years of fighting. It is a fact, however, that 100 years later these Bulgarian wars were not dedicated military honours and they were not served by representatives of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. The Bulgarian state has never had a chance to do so before. By preparing myself, I've drawn a timeline for all of the events. I came across the report of our ambassador to the Republic of Serbia from the 1930s, which in a report on the state of the military cemeteries, Mr. Minister, writes: I'm glad this is the second time we've come up with this stands for Mount Kaimakchalan. On 17 January 1941, when discussing the budget of the then Ministry of War, the People's Representative Nayden Andreev will be able to quote it, you know what he says: Today in the borders of united Bulgaria besides Shipka and Slivnitsa we also have Tutrakan, Kalimans, Kaimacchalan, Red Wall and other sacred places that until recently were not available for worship and honor, but today are open to the whole Bulgarian people. In these historic places monuments, mausoleums should be erected to collect the sacred bones of our heroes and to form a pantheon of the immortal fighting Bulgarian spirit to serve in the future as places of worship. Mr. Minister, I hope that we will initiate what is necessary, so that the necessary memorable sign will be placed there, because, as I understand it, what the Bulgarian servicemen have placed is the subject of abuse and, as I understand it, is already broken. We must do everything necessary with the assistance of the Republic of Macedonia and the Hellenic Republic to build the necessary monuments of appreciation. Congratulations on the award of these Bulgarian servicemen one of which, by the way, is a noble general of the Bulgarian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev, for the emotional response and for the objective assessment, perhaps. Now let's hear the back of Minister Nenchev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u180	Once again, thank you, Mr. Boychev. I've always believed that we should unite around the national cause and not just that. I'll join you in what you said with great pain. A few days ago I was in Tutrakan to honor the Tutrakan epic, then I was in Dobrich to find the monument of the gene. Kolev. Yesterday, however, I was in Gyueshevo, and there, dear Mr. Boychev, since 1944, no one has given their dues to the Bulgarian wars. For the first time with an official ceremony from the Ministry of Defence and a memorial ceremony for these Bulgarian heroes we paid our respects. I couldn't help but share with pain that gene. The hero of this Battle of Deve Bair received recognition from the mayor of Kyustendil. Unfortunately, I am told by your MPs that a little later, coming home to Plovdiv instead of being rewarded and recognized his merits, he is condemned by the so-called People's Court, 15 years old, which is very unfortunate. I hope that all together, ladies and gentlemen of the House, we can remedy this historic injustice. I believe in our common will to make sure that the Bulgarian people believe and correct the historical mistakes. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u181	Thanks for the tunic, Mr. Nenchev. [[BSP LB's MPs are talking to each other.]] I see that it sparked a debate within the BSP Parliamentary Group. We continue with one final question for you. He is from two fellow MPs Mr. Yavor Haytov and Mr. Petar Petrov, and is about the level of preparation of the Bulgarian army in connection with participation in anti-terrorism actions. Dear Mr. Haytov, please state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, your participation in today's parliamentary control is strange, given some ideological differences that you have with representatives of the Left. Today, out of all of them asking questions to you, you receive admiration and praise. This is perhaps very strange and is probably the result of your well done work, but it is a fact. No one can deny that in your today's participation of parliamentary control by the representatives of the opposition, the negotiating colleagues and Mr. Boychev, you have received interesting commendations. Now get to the point...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u183	Dear Mr. Haytov, after this introduction, please, you have 40 seconds left for your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u184	Mr. Chairman, I am an alumni of the Law Faculty of Sofia University and before we present our Petitum, we have the right to introduction, exhibition...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u185	And a conclusion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u186	...and then get to the point. It's not a conclusion. It's a petitum. In order for there to be no more memorable records of Bulgarian wars or of Bulgarian employees, the Ministry of Interior requires preparation for preparation, purposeful, consistent and, of course, budget. In this regard nowadays with the new requirements that the Bulgarian Army has, my questions to you are: Is the Bulgarian Army ready to participate in anti-terrorism actions and operations? What parts of our army do you plan to take part in such operations? Are they prepared for you? Are they assembled and equipped with enough equipment? I ask you to do an analysis of the activities of the Military Police regarding joint operations with the structures of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u187	Dear Mr. Haytov, thank you for asking Mr. Nenchev a question, he will now have the opportunity to answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u188	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, and thank you for the question. You are particularly active in matters relating to the Ministry of Defense, you are asking me to be active on each of the topics and issues that you are putting, and this, I must confess, helps. I will answer your questions specifically. In line with the National Plan for Countering Terrorism and the Ministry's Action Plan and the structures of direct submission of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army to counter terrorism, the structures of the armed forces developed their own plans for participation in joint operations with the Ministry of Interior. Under the plans developed, the Armed Forces are on standby and able to provide teams of the Special Forces and the Military Police Service to carry out direct actions, search for, detain, neutralize terrorists and security activities. In order to carry out the tasks of limiting access to certain areas and areas, control of movement along certain routes, security of important sites of critical infrastructure is planned to involve forces and means of the Land Troops allocated in 10 garrisons. Airborne aircraft are provided for the transport of forces and means by air. To control, limit or eradicate the consequences of a terrorist act, we are prepared to use modular formations of the types of armed forces intended to assist the population in disasters and accidents. The relevant formations shall have state-of-the-art weapons, equipment and equipment, which shall enable the task of countering terrorism to be carried out. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the supply of arms, equipment and equipment is a continuous process. The formations of the Bulgarian Army and the Military Police, according to the plans for preparation, participate in joint trainings and exercises with the specialized structures of the Ministry of Interior, including the national and international anti-terrorism exercises. The specialized units of the Service are well equipped and continue to be equipped with the necessary armored and other specialized vehicle equipment, individual means of protection and communication in the area of anti-terrorist operations. Daily training and training are carried out within the structural unit as well as in collaboration with the staff of the Specialized Counter-Terrorism Unit and other specialized police units. The specialized anti-terrorism squad of the Ministry of Interior increases the readiness and interoperability of personnel from the Security Sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u189	Thank you, Dear Minister Nenchev. Next is a line that the esteemed Mr. Haytov will make use of. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll repeat what I started with again. It is important that we do not suffer, that God does not protect us, and that employees in the sector die, and in the new times the specifics of the Ministry of Defense and the Bulgarian wars impose their high preparation for participation in these types of activities and, of course, something that is very important, assistance to the population in disasters and accidents. Therefore, as a national representative in the Forty-third National Assembly, apart from the commitments I have to my voters from my electoral district, it is very important for me to be able to take into account in the national plan that Bulgarian citizens live in a security environment, that there are no external threats against them, and it is also very important to emphasise that the topic "terrorist" is very colourful, multicolored. Sometimes it happens that an employee prepares his whole life for a participation in such an operation and really everything must be very precise, very carefully and very well funded. I say this in the spirit of time, namely that we are entering the budget procedure for 2017 and for all these activities will come the moment, and it is coming very soon when you, Mr. Minister, will probably visit the groups of the ruling majority, and why not the opposition, in order to seek help and support for the budget of the Ministry of Defence, because the price is also high, and we cannot expect the Bulgarian citizens to live in an environment and secure environment without the state spending money on this thing. I will be particularly careful with regard to the formation of the budget of the Ministry of Defence and its spending to prepare personnel, because, once again, if employees are not prepared, the effect of their work would be insignificant and there would be danger even of victims. Again, I repeat that the security of Bulgarian citizens is my priority and I will be as demanding for us to protect other than Bulgarian citizens, as well as the employees of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior from cases where someone may suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u191	And thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Do you want a hole, Minister Nenchev? Of course, come to the stands. That's gonna be the last dot of the day.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, thank you for your attention. You are absolutely right the time has almost come when we have to defend the new budget of the Ministry of Defence. As far as employees are concerned, they are extremely well prepared and I can say it here, from this stands, with all my responsibility. As for the necessary equipment, much more can be desired, we do everything we need. If you were impressed, a month and a half ago, the Prime Minister and I visited the Special Forces, a polygon in Tsranca, which is in terrible condition. At the will of the Council of Ministers, 3 million were granted. lv. for new buildings, new bedrooms, new dining room. Additional resources are being allocated to the technique that these worthy boys and girls need. You know that since the beginning of last year we have taken an extremely active part in security at the Bulgarian border. These funds were, unfortunately, not provided for in the budget. I hope that this year all MPs from all parliamentary groups will show the necessary understanding. And as far as I'm concerned, last year I visited all the parliamentary groups, and I have no scruples when it comes to national security issues. And this year I will, and I expect your support, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-09.u193	Thank you, Dear Minister Nenchev. That was the last question for you today. This was also the last question of today's parliamentary control. The next meeting is on September 14, Wednesday, 9:00 p.m. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am shutting down today's parliamentary control. [[PHONE RINGING]]
