ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, there have been two projects for decisions related to the participation of Ms. Mariana Georgieva Todorova in two permanent committees. I propose on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of our Rules let us include them in our schedule for today as a t. 1 so that Mrs. Todorova can participate in the meetings of the committees next week. I shall put this proposal to the vote. Vote 131 MPs: for 127, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. However, before examining the draft decisions, it was announced yesterday that at the beginning of today's plenary session, the vote on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Irrigation Associations will take place. The debate on this bill took place yesterday. Therefore, I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Associations for Irrigation with the Importer Council of Ministers. They voted 132 MPs: 88, against 25, abstention 19. The bill was passed at first reading. By letter No 654-02-38 of 25 May 2016, Mr. Kiril Tsochev, Vice-President of the ABB Parliamentary Group, proposed two draft decisions for consideration and voting. The first is a draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED She elected Mariana Georgieva Todorova as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Colleagues, I recall that after Mr. Kalfin's departure from the Council of Ministers and his application for early termination of his credentials, Mrs. Todorova had to resign from the 43rd National Assembly, after which she was again declared elected elected by the Central Election Commission, took an oath and by voting on these decisions she had to formally return to the committees in which she worked. Are there any statements on the draft decision? We vote, fellow Members. They voted 141 MPs: 141, no opposition and no abstentions. The decision has been adopted unanimously. And the second draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Education and Science: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED She elected Mariana Georgieva Todorova as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. Statements? I won't. We vote. They voted 136 MPs: for 136 against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS. These are two bills with importer of the Council of Ministers, respectively on 12 April 2016 and 15 April 2016. There is a report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on both bills. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u2	Thank you. First of all, I propose a procedure for admission to the hall of Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Krasimir Tsipov of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u3	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. Mr. Yankov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the opportunity for a procedure to make an urgent request to be invited to the Chamber by Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u5	There's the Deputy Minister, we just let him in. They're two deputy ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u6	The texts proposed concern the activities of the Ministry of Interior in the future and there are largely questions to the Ministry of Interior, which are from the minister's competence personally, which will be part of the debate in this Law. I urge that the Minister of Interior be invited.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u7	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. I'll invite the Home Secretary. Mr. Ananiev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u8	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 602-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 April 2016. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 20 April 2016, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications was discussed, No 602-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 April 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Valeri Borisov Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Ms. Neda Koycheva Director of the Legal Regulation and General Legal Service at the Communications Regulation Commission and representatives of mobile operators. The bill was presented by Mr. Valeri Borisov. In his statement Mr. Borisov stressed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications was drawn up in fulfillment of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union, to align the Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 June 2012 on roaming in public mobile communications networks within the Union (Regulation (EU) No 531/2012) and in accordance with the requirements of art. 3-6 of Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 laying down measures on access to the open internet and amending Directive 2002/22/EC on universal service and consumer rights in relation to electronic communications networks and services and Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 on roaming in public mobile communications networks within the Union (Regulation (EU) 2015/2120). The bill proposes changes related to the provision of measures at national level for the implementation of the requirements of art. 18 "Sanctitions' of Regulation (EU) No 531/2012. In this respect, in art. 331 create two new paragraphs providing for penalties for undertakings for not providing information necessary for the implementation of the regulation and for failure to comply with decisions by which the Communications Regulation Commission requires the immediate suspension of detected infringements of the Regulation. Next, Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 is amended by Regulation (EU) 2015/2120. Some of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications (LEC) are repealed and sanctions are provided for. At the same time, new provisions are laid down for which no sanctions are provided for in the current LEC. The amendments to the roaming regulation require an amendment and an addition to the current norm of art. 334b of the Law on Electronic Communications. The proposed changes to the norm are in line with the amendments to the Regulation which enter into force on 30 April 2016. Another group of changes are related to the introduction of provisions at national level for the implementation of the requirements of art. 3-6 of Regulation (EU) 2015/2120. Sanctions for infringements of the provisions of the Regulation relating to requirements for ensuring access to open internet are envisaged. In fulfilling the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria arising from findings of non-compliance with the legal framework with acts of European law, the Project includes rules which remove the restrictions on Bulgarian radio and television operators for participation in procedures for issuing permissions for terrestrial digital television networks. Art. 47a. 48, para. 3 of the Law on Electronic Communications. The draft law also introduces changes relating to the transposition of Directive 2014/53/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market of radio equipment and repealing Directive 1999/5/EC. After the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held. The representatives of mobile operators said they support the proposed changes, but believe that the amount of sanctions is excessive. In this regard Ms. Neda Koycheva noted that the bill is fully in line with the relevant European acts. She stressed that in accordance with the requirements of art. 18 of Regulation (EU) No 531/2012, the penalties provided for shall be effective and dissuasive. The specified minimums and maximums of the property penalties provide sufficient guarantees for compliance with the principle of proportionality and the possibility of individualisation of the penalty in accordance with the public impact of the specific infringement. It is also necessary to take into account the fact that undertakings have a financial advantage not to comply with the restrictions, therefore the amount of the possible penalty should exceed the potential profit in the event of default. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 9 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u9	And the second report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u10	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 602-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 April 2016. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 18 May 2016, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications was discussed, No 602-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 April 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Georgi Arabadzhiev, Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Interior, Mrs. Kalina Dimitrova, Director of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as representatives of the Communications Regulation Commission. During the presentation of the bill by the importers it was claimed that by Decision No 2 of 2015 in Constitutional Case No 8 of 2014, the Constitutional Court declared as unconstitutional art. Art. 250a-250f, Art. Article 251 251a of the Law on Electronic Communications, which gave rise to the possibility of providing access to the data stored by undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or search services. Mr. Tzipov addressed to the members of the Commission that, with one of the latest amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications, undertakings providing public electronic communications networks and/or services undertake to store the data created or processed in the course of their activities for the needs of national security and for the prevention, detection and investigation of serious crimes. The amendments adopted to the relevant provisions of the law thus create difficulties in the activities of the authorities carrying out a search for persons. During the debates on the Bill, the representatives of the Ministry of Interior stressed that the competent authorities should have the opportunity to use the data under art. 251b, para. 1 of the Law on the purpose of the search, where there is a reasonable assumption that the missing person has occurred or may become the victim of a serious crime. This, in turn, would allow them to exploit in the operational and search activities the capabilities of modern communication technology and technology without violating constitutionally established rights of citizens. The importers noted that the need to use data from services provided by public electronic communications networks and/or services is essential for the quality and effectiveness of operational search activities carried out relating to the establishment of the location of persons declared as a general government search. The provision of the information contained in the reports by operators is also necessary for the establishment of the time and place of disappearance, the persons with whom the wanted person has contacted, the persons who intentionally submit wrong or do not submit information, the persons who have information regarding the situation of the disappearance, the persons involved in the disappearance and others. Following the debates on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, unanimously proposed to the National Assembly by 15 votes to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications, No 602-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 April. In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. We will now hear the report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The chairman is gone. Mrs. Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u12	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 602-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 April 2016. At its meeting held on 11 May 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications submitted by the Council of Ministers. Mr. Valeri Borisov participated in the meeting of the Commission Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. This bill aims to bring the Bulgarian legislation into line with the requirements of a number of European acts, including Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 June 2012 on roaming in public mobile communications networks within the Union, Regulation (EU) 2015/2120 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 laying down measures on access to the Internet and amending Directive 2002/22/EC on universal service and consumer rights in relation to electronic communications networks and services and Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 on roaming in public mobile communications networks within the Union, and Directive 2014/53/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market of radio equipment and repealing Directive 1999/5/EC. The bill provides for several groups of changes. The first group is related to the application of the requirements of art. 18 "Sanctitions' of Regulation (EU) No 531/2012. In accordance with that provision, Member States must lay down a system of proportionate and dissuasive penalties applicable to infringements of the Regulation, ensuring that they are effectively implemented. It should be borne in mind that these distortions would have a large degree of public impact, given their cross-border effect and would affect many roaming customers within the internal market. In this respect, the importer has proposed sanctions in line with the turnover of the undertakings. Minimum and maximum amounts of property penalties are provided for to ensure the proportionality of the administrative penalty. At the same time, the high level of sanctions should contribute to the achievement of the objectives of Regulation (EU) No 531/2012 establishing a single internal market for mobile communications services by eliminating differences between national prices and roaming prices and increasing competition on the market. Any failure to comply with the provisions of the Regulation would directly affect the European values laid down in art. 26 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The second group of amendments to the bill is related to the application of the requirements of art. 3 s 6 of Regulation (EU) 2015/2120. In accordance with art. 6 by 30 April 2016 Member States shall notify the European Commission of the penalties they lay down applicable in the event of infringement of art. 3, 4 and 5. Those provisions of the regulation aim to ensure free access to open internet, in conditions of uniform and non-discriminatory treatment of traffic and protection of consumer rights. National regulatory authorities should be the main guarantor to comply with the rules laid down by Regulation (EU) 2015/2120. Last but not least, the Bill also provides for a third group of changes to remove restrictions on Bulgarian radio and television operators for participation in procedures for issuing permissions for terrestrial digital broadcasting networks in accordance with the requirements of Directive 2014/53/EU. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 7 votes for the Council of Ministers and 2 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications, No 602-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. Opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u14	♪ I can't believe under the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 602-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 April 2016. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 27 April 2016, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 602-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 April 2016. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications: Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister, and Kalina Dimitrova, Director of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; by the Ministry of Economy: Irina Staneva, State Expert at the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Kalina Dimitrova. The aim of the proposed Draft is to synchronise Bulgarian legislation with regulations and directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on roaming in public mobile communications networks within the Union; define measures on access to open internet; consumer rights in connection with electronic communications networks. The proposed changes can be identified in three groups: - changes related to the provision of measures at national level for the implementation of the requirements of art. 18 "Sanctitions' of Regulation (EU) No 531/2012; - changes related to the provision of measures at national level for the implementation of the requirements of art. 3-6 of Regulation (EU) 2015/2120; - the project includes rules that remove restrictions on Bulgarian radio and television operators for participation in procedures for issuing permissions for terrestrial digital television broadcasting networks. The bill adds to the Additional provisions of the Act in force by introducing the definitions of new concepts. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 602-01-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 April 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u15	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. On the other bill there is an opinion from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Let it be presented to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Let me introduce you to ♪ I can't believe the Internal Security and Public Order Committee on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 602-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 April 2016. At its regular meeting on 11 May 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, No 602-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 April 2016. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Interior: Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister, Senior Commissioner Todor Grebenarov Deputy Director of the Directorate General On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov. In his statement he stressed that outside the scope of the Law on Electronic Communications there remained an important life hypothesis, namely the storage and use of data from public electronic communications networks and/or services for the purpose of searching for a person. The need to use data from services provided by public electronic communications networks is essential in order to improve the quality and effectiveness of operational search activities carried out relating to the establishment of the whereabouts of persons declared as a general government search. The information contained in the operator's inquiries is necessary in order to establish the time and place of disappearance, the persons with whom the wanted person was contacted, persons with information and so on. In this way, information on the phone numbers that the requested person has dialed may also be collected for the date, time and duration of the calls made and others. The proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications allows competent authorities to use in operational and search activities where there is a reasoned assumption that the missing person has become or may become the victim of a crime, the possibilities of modern communication equipment and technologies without violating constitutionally established rights of citizens. On the basis of the discussion held the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 9 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 602-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 April 2016...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u17	Thank you. You've heard the opinions on the bill. There is now an opportunity for them to be presented by the importer. Both bills have been submitted by the Council of Ministers. It is clear that one was initiated by the Ministry of Transport and the other by the Ministry of Interior. The fact that they were adopted and imported by the Council of Ministers on 12 April and 15 April respectively is very indicative of the coordination of legislative activity in the Council of Ministers. Do importers intend to present the bills? No, they don't want to represent them. That's how we're gonna get to the discussion. Of course, they can take part in the discussion in response to the questions asked. Mr. Iankov has a say in this. If there are others willing, let them also give a sign to mark them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u18	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will take account of the bill submitted on 15 April. It is really clear that within three days there are two proposals for amending and supplementing the same law. This speaks not only of the coordination between the various departments of the Council of Ministers, but also of disagreement and perhaps there is an element of misleading the Members of the National Assembly, because on both bills it is proposed that the Committee on Transport and Communications should be the Committee on Transport and Communications, and on the one which was submitted on 15 April, in my opinion, the Internal Commission should be the lead.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u19	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u20	What exactly is offered? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 251b is proposed to supplement the text itself, which reads: suppliers providing public electronic communications networks and/or services shall store, for a period of 6 months, data created or processed in the course of their activities, which are necessary for: tracking and identifying the source of the connection; identifying the direction of the connection; identifying the date, time and duration of the connection; identifying the type of connection; identifying the end electronic communication device of the user or of what is presented as its final device; identifying the identifier of the used cells. The data under para. 1 shall be stored for the needs of national security and for the prevention, detection and investigation of serious crimes. It is proposed to supplement the search for persons who may reasonably assume that they have become or may become victims of a serious crime. Honourable Members, even in the reasons it is stated that the proposed changes in 2010 by decision of the Constitutional Court of 12 March 2015, in most of the texts are declared unconstitutional and according to art. 34, para. 2 of the Constitution, which allows as an exception what has been established under para. 1 a fundamental right of citizens to privacy, freedom and secrecy of correspondence and other communications only where this is necessary for the detection or prevention of serious crimes. The term "Acquittal' shall be used specifically in procedural law when assessing the grounds for taking a measure of non-reserved detention based on evidence collected so far in pre-trial proceedings. In the present case, the term was used in another sense as a result of an analysis made not only on the basis of procedural actions but also related to conclusions or information most likely by certain services. Colleagues, we are offered by the executive, the Council of Ministers not to be bound by pre-trial proceedings, which are known to be working on a serious crime with punishment according to the PPC for more than five years in prison and has prosecutorial supervision and judicial control. It is proposed that a change in legislation should create conditions for police abuse, because there may be data from an operational source who had heard that someone had said... In other words, the Ministry of Interior and DANS can work on anyone, assuming justified. The proposed texts are a first step towards limiting the freedom of citizens, and the Constitutional Court must surely rule on them again, because there is a decision on other similar texts for which Decision No 2 of 2015. The Constitutional Court ruled. We have seen this in a previous term with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and Interior Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov in today's Parliament chairman of the parliamentary group of the ruling party GERB. Legal regulation is now in place. Guys, come to your senses. Have you forgotten that 2013 at the will of the Bulgarian citizens your mandate was then terminated early? What do you want to achieve with this first vault?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u21	So what? And yours after a year and a half at the will of the same citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u22	You are once again reaching for the freedom of citizens. And our concerns are that there will again be elements of police policy, police abuse, because this door, when it is opened, you, by leading the institutions and especially the Ministry of Interior, have proven to the Bulgarian citizens that you are abusers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u23	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Here it was just said that the currently debated Bill was to be allocated to the Internal Commission as a leading committee. I will not dispute this statement, but it is good, when some Members speak, not to read separate sentences or texts of the Law, but to take up reading the entire Law on Electronic Communications. In this Law, the order by which permissions to use data from the Law on Electronic Communications are given is written in subsequent texts. Ladies and gentlemen, last year at this time in this House, we unanimously voted on the amendments to the Law, following the 2015 Decision of the Constitutional Court, and there we introduced full judicial review. [[Reply.]] It is expressed in authorising the use of the data under the Law on Electronic Communications, even in cases of pre-trial proceedings where there was no such authorisation by the court before. What is this case about? Abuse by the spokesperson for, see, police arbitrariness and so on. The motives state that this is really about looking for individuals, when it can be reasonably assumed that these individuals could become victims of a crime, and the crime could be a kidnapping, it could be a murder. Yes, last year's amendments missed this opportunity because it is illogical to form homicide cases, as they now form, and to end, or kidnapping cases. When a person is usually young people, disappears, parents, notice, parents signal at the Ministry of Interior, and here is given the opportunity by the court's permission. This is the President or Vice-President of the respective district court, to whom all the materials are provided, data, so that this opportunity can be used to establish the last location of persons. Yes, when a crime has been committed, this order goes from 2010, again with the court's permission, now and when it comes to kidnappings. I understand the desire for political speeches, but it is good to read the laws, even by the members of the Internal Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u25	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Mr. Ivanov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Yankov, dear colleagues! Mr. Iankov, you made a political statement on the bill and for this reason I will reply with a reply in the same way. First of all, you mentioned that our government was overthrown by protests. Our government was overthrown three years and ten months later. Yours was taken down in the first year. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Secondly, you said that there was police and that there were all sorts of other speeches in that direction on your part. When we talk, we have to be careful what we say. In your time, what did you do with the Ministry of Interior? You pulled out the back of the head, you ruined the BMW firm, you gave it to the Ministry of Transport so that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u27	The bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u28	Yes, but your statement was in the same direction, so I said I would respond in the same way. You ruined the BMW company, you gave it to the Ministry of Transport, you gave it to a private company, you ruined the back of the head, and you gave it to a private company. For more than half a year there were protesters out here who were beaten. What will you talk about if there are so many facts that support the exact opposite opinion?! Please, when we talk here, from this room, let's speak expertly, not politically, because if we go to talk politically, the most we can do is fight, which will not lead to anything. So I ask you not to cross the threshold, and if you have anything to say, it should be expert, not just any fairy tales that have nothing to do with the Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Iankov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Long talk is not always meaningful. You had no reason for either the first or the second line, and you know it. [[Laughter and excitement from GERB.]] You have participated, you have recorded participation in today's parliamentary debate. Mr. Lazarov, have you read what exactly is being offered? You've made a line in style, but you have to work.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u31	Have you read the following texts?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u32	Yes, but let it be tied to pre-trial proceedings, because in your proposed text you are proposing something else, and you are aware of that. The possibility of police abuse exists and we, as MPs, are alerted by both journalists and awake civil society. You know what you're doing. The goal you want to achieve is with legislative change to have the possibility of controlling Bulgarian citizens at your discretion, with a reasonable assumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u33	Thank you. The next statement is from Mr. Peter Slavov of the Reformation Block. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will refer mainly to the bill of April 15th, which already came up with a name and many civil society people called it a bill that expands the opportunities for eavesdropping on the Internet. It's no coincidence, colleagues. I see in this paragraph, in this extremely short Bill, but very substantial, in fact, a heavy inheritance that the Oresharski cabinet has left on the Ministry of Interior services and which has obviously reached the point. In fact, I am surprised here on the left of the fierce criticism that they have made as if this inheritance was not created by them. Do you remember, colleagues on the left, the development of the worm? I would remind you of it where some 300 days people were tapped, unclear on what legal grounds, in violation of the Law and so on, and it was bugged by protesters against this government. At that time, such legislative initiatives, in quotes of legislation, snuck in and there was a great desire, precisely through the communication of these people, which they are doing over the Internet, to be monitored, monitored, and all the terminology that the services use on this issue. I don't like these lyrics at all. I do not like them, the way they are now being imported by the Council of Ministers, and I very much hope, colleagues, that we do not do things that they tried to do in the previous term and the previous National Assembly, and that they be seriously revised before they are adopted. I will immediately give you an expert argument: look at the text, it speaks only of cases where there is a reasonable assumption that a crime has been committed, i.e. that persons have become victims of a crime, it also speaks of cases where they could have been victims of a crime. And I ask you: in this second hypothesis, imagine, tomorrow people come to protest against some unreasonable decision of the National Assembly before parliament, throw eggs, tomatoes and similar things, but someone threw a stone......... can this be considered as a justified assumption of a serious crime against the MPs and all put them under one denominator? And give us now, and we'll keep an eye on them. We'll be monitoring protesters and MPs just in case. Too broad are the provisions which of these legislative texts give for interpretation, for unacceptable interpretation. I propose that we return these texts for serious revision and correction because what I have heard from colleagues from GERB as arguments, I can see it as a motive for people who have become victims of kidnapping, human trafficking and so on. Similarly, to establish their last location, thus preventing them from being found more quickly, including a criminal offence against them. This is good, but what is being proposed can serve as self-serving goals, especially if ill-intentioned leadership of the interior ministry and of the services takes the lead and tries to resume and revive the denied practices, which I think we have all denied from the previous mandate of Oresharski with the monitoring of protesters and so on. I propose that we return these texts to juvie, that they be corrected and then, in accordance with the motives of some Members, be made sense and then accepted, but not in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u35	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I have two questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u37	The ministers or the MPs?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u38	To the importers. This is Deputy Minister Tzipov. If importers give a definition of the term supposedly, I am inclined to support the amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications. Second of all, I have a question. According to a statement by Deputy Minister Tzipov in the media and from what I am reading, and at the moment under the current Law, the competent authority with a reasoned request that can offer the use of such means of monitoring the traffic data are the Ministry of Interior, the DANS and the Ministry of Defence. My question is: why isn't the D.A. missing? Question three, more like a proposal. I propose that a special text should be included in the Law on Electronic Communications, that persons who have a reasonable assumption that they may become victims of a serious crime, that their traffic data will be monitored, to be notified. Since we believe that a person may be the victim of a crime, but the victim is not a criminal, but a citizen with all human and civil rights, he must be informed in due order by the relevant institutions that his traffic data will be controlled. I asked Deputy Minister Tzipov two questions. I'll repeat them: give a definition of the term...................................................................................................... Second question: why is the prosecution absent as a competent authority which may request the application of these funds? And the third is my suggestion that the persons who have a reasonable assumption that they may be the victims of a serious crime should be informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u39	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Tzipov, please answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The key main legal points in this Law are that the request submitted by the competent authorities is motivated and must contain the legal basis and the purpose for which access to such data is needed, a full and comprehensive indication of the facts and circumstances underlying the purpose of requesting access to those data to be reflected in that reference and the period of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u41	Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u42	Mr. Yankov, it's in art. 251c, para. Article 2 and Article 2. 251d writes that access to this data is granted after authorisation by the President of the Regional Court or a Judge authorised by him. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the order for such access must also be reasoned and must contain the particulars to be reflected in the reference, the period of time to cover the reference. To answer the question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev. For the purposes of criminal proceedings, Mr. Enchev, these data shall be made available to the court and the investigating authorities.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. With regard to competent authorities who may request a reference for the provision of such data, it was suggested by pre-spokesmen that this was done only by the Minister of Interior. The authorities that may be requested by the Ministry of Interior are the Directorate General of National Police, the Directorate General of Organized Crime, the Border Police and the Homeland Security Directorate and the Regional Affairs of the Ministry of Interior. With regard to the other issue of Mr. Enchev, this is about the Military Information Service and the Military Intelligence Service, Mr. Enchev, of the Ministry of Defence. A competent authority to address such requests is also the State Agency for Intelligence. Ladies and gentlemen, the request for access is for the search of persons for whom an alert must be received and on the basis of it the competent authority requesting to indicate the full facts and circumstances justifying the purpose of that request. There should not be any talk of police arbitrage, since it is a reasoned request, of a reasoned authorisation by the court, honourable Members of the National Assembly. It's all decided by the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u43	Thank you, Mr. Tzipov. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 April 2016. Please vote. They voted 105 MPs: 88, against 4, abstention 13. The bill was passed at first reading. I put to the vote the next Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications, once again tabled by the Council of Ministers, but on 15 April 2016. Please vote. Vote 101 MPs: 84 against 16, abstention 1. The bill was passed at first reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE MEMORANDUM FOR THE EXAMINATION OF THE TRANSPARENT COOPERATION PROGRAM INTERREG - IPP TGS TSII 2014TS16I5C006 BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA. Importer: Council of Ministers on 9 May 2016 Please submit the opinions of the Standing Committees. First, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management, which is leading. Mr. Zelenogorski, please submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-Border Cooperation Programme, submitted by the Council of Ministers No 602-02-17 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 19 May 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme 2014TS16I5W006 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2016. Ms Denitsa Nikolova, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, presented the bill on behalf of the importer, took part in the committee meeting. The cross-border cooperation programme "Interreg" was approved by Decision of the European Commission C(2015)5653 of 5 August 2015. The Memorandum was signed by the Bulgarian side on January 20, 2016. The Memorandum ensures the full participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Cross-border Cooperation Programme with the Republic of Macedonia, defining the powers of the authorities responsible for the effective management and implementation of the Programme, in accordance with the commitments made by our country. The MPs voted in favour of the proposed project by expressing confidence that the projects that will be implemented in the implementation of the programme will help the development and bilateral good neighbourly relations of municipalities from the border regions of the two countries. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 13 votes, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft for the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation of the Interreg Cross-border Cooperation Programme 2014TSI16I5W006 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, No 602-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u45	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. I note that there are no opinions received from the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, but there is an opinion from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Mrs. Grozdanova, will you represent the opinion of the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u46	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum for the implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme (CCI) CCI 2014TC16I5CB006 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, No 602-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2016. At a meeting held on 25 May 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the above-mentioned ratification bill signed for the Republic of Bulgaria on 20 January 2016 and for the Republic of Macedonia on 1 March 2016. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Denitsa Nikolova. By Decision No 655 of the Council of Ministers of 2014 the Republic of Bulgaria agreed with the content of the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation INTERREG The programme is approved by Decision of the European Commission C(2015)5653 of 5 August 2015. For the 2014-2020 programming period, the Programme for cross-border cooperation Bulgaria - Macedonia 2014 - 2020 will operate through four priority axes: Environment; Tourism; Competitiveness and Technical Assistance. The target groups and the main types of beneficiaries are national, regional and local authorities to public organizations, which is a prerequisite for increasing the knowledge and absorption of good practices by the Bulgarian partners in order to improve their regional and local development policies. The total budget of the Programme is EUR 19 461 687, of which the EU funds amount to EUR 16 542 434. Proposals for ratification by law shall ensure the full participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme (IPA TGS CCI 2014TC16I5CB006 Bulgaria "the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia" for 2014-2020 under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) by defining the powers of the authorities responsible for the effective management and implementation of the Programme, in accordance with the commitments made by the Republic of Bulgaria. The Memorandum shall negotiate national co-financing on priority axes and participation between partners from each country. The Memorandum shall enter into force from the date of receipt by diplomatic means of the second of the notes notifying the Parties that the requirements of the relevant laws for the entry into force have been met. Any modification of the Memorandum will take place with an additional agreement. The Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 12 votes for "Interreg", without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme (CCS) CCI 2014TC16I5CB006 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, No 602-02-17, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u47	Are there statements on the Memorandum? I won't. I put to the vote at first reading the Law on the ratification of the Memorandum for the implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme with the subsequent description between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. He's in. Mr. Nenkov, come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I am making a procedure to proceed to a second vote on the so presented Memorandum.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u49	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u50	Law on the ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme (CCI IPA 2014TS16I5C006 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia) Sole Article: Ratification of the Memorandum for the Implementation of the INTERREG Cross-border Cooperation Programme (IPP) 2014TS16I5C006 between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia, signed for the Republic of Bulgaria on 20 January 2016 and for the Republic of Macedonia on 1 March 2016. FINAL DISCLOSURE It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u51	Are there any speeches? I won't. I submit the fully reported Voting Bill at second reading. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The law on ratification of the Memorandum under consideration was also adopted at second reading. The next item in the Weekly Programme is: ANNUAL COMMISSION REPORT ON THE PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA ON HER ACTION IN 2015 The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data is the importer. Welcome to admission procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u52	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I propose that they be admitted to the Chamber Mrs. Maria Mateva, Member of the Commission for Personal Data Protection, and Mrs. Desislava Toshkova, Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u53	Please vote on the admission of the persons mentioned in plenary. Vote 71 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 1. Please invite the representatives of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. You are welcome to present the Commission's opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u54	♪ I can't believe on an annual report by the Commission on the protection of personal data for its activities in 2015, No 620-00-1, submitted by the Commission for the protection of personal data on 28 January 2016. At its regular meeting held on 13 April 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Annual Report of the Commission on Personal Data Protection for its activities in 2015, submitted by the Commission on 28 January 2016. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Commission for Personal Data Protection: Tsvetlin Sophronov The report was presented by Tsvetlin Sophronium. In 2015, new functional systems were built into the electronic registry of administrators, which have facilitated and facilitated citizens and businesses in their communication with the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. The administrative electronic services already provided through the website of the e-government are also improved. In 2015, 5347 new personal data controllers were entered. The Commission has examined 817 complaints, of which 545 are against political entities for their participation in the European elections. The total amount of penalties imposed during the accounting year is BGN 760 200 and this amount for 2014 was BGN 585 100. The Commission has provided over 200 written consultations to citizens and 92 opinions. In 2015 two of the Commission's projects financed under the Operational Programme "Administrative Capacity" were successfully implemented. In summary, the objectives and priorities were presented in 2016. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. As a result of the debates held, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee unanimously supported the submitted Annual Report of the Commission on Personal Data Protection in 2015, No 620-00-1, submitted by the Personal Data Protection Commission on 28 January 2016 and proposed to the National Assembly the following: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for its Activity in 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art.86, para.1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the Commission's Annual Report on the Protection of Personal Data for its Activity in 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The importers have the floor to provide the Commission with a summary of the report for the previous year. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, our 2015 report was presented by the Vice-President of the Commission. What I can emphasise are the Commission's priorities for this year 2016. Part of the Commission's priorities include active actions to monitor and support the work of the system for the registration of refugees and asylum seekers,................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Another priority of the Commission is strengthening the already established good cooperation with the Ministry of Interior to ensure a smooth transition to the increased requirements of the new EUROPOL Regulation, which will enter into force in 2017. Another priority of the Commission is to carry out a sectoral inspection in the Education Sector, according to the methodology adopted by a Commission decision for conducting sectoral checks. The Commission's priority is also to establish clear rules on the processing of personal data in the course of video surveillance. Naturally, one of the Commission's main priorities over the next two years will be the preparation of the Republic of Bulgaria for the introduction of the new European legal framework in national terms and the synchronization of national legislation with it. As you know, the European Parliament has voted on the new Data Protection Regulation together with the directive to be applied in the Police and Justice Sector and, in this regard, even though the Regulation has direct effect, it will require the synchronization of national laws with its provisions. With regard to the Directive, its direct transposition into national law will be necessary. We are prepared to answer your questions, if any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u57	Thank you for your introduction. Are there any questions or speeches to the Commission's report? You can take your seat, if there are any questions, you will answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u59	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission's Annual Report on Personal Data Protection for its activities in 2015. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's report on the protection of personal data of its activities in 2015 was adopted. The next item is the Activity Report of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2015. I think it's better if we don't start this question. I guess it'll take more time and cause discussion. I declare a recess until 11:00 when Parliamentary control will begin. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u60	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the sitting continues with PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period from 20 to 26 May 2016: A question has been received from MP Mihail Mikov to Zornitsa Rusinova, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, concerning measures in the field of social policy related to severe demographic processes. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 3 June 2016. A question was received from the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov and Iskren Veselinov to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, about the financial and economic situation of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Answers should be made in plenary on 3 June In accordance with A question was received from the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hamid Hamid and Ayhan Etem to Boyko Borisov The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 3 June 2016. Written answers to service: - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev; - a written answer "a supplement to a written answer, by the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on two issues by the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev; - from the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on three issues from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Manol Genov; - by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u61	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Distracted from the daily frictions in the ruling coalition, leaving coalition partners and changing ministers as handkerchiefs, we miss an important moment Bayed daily with information about the government's brilliant successes in spending European steam, Bulgarian citizens in awe follow the cutting of ribbons by the honourable Prime Minister Borisov. Only things aren't that pink. First of all, the punctual spending of money, because first it pays the budget, then the European Commission eventually restores them, is crowned with hundreds of poorly implemented projects. The media flooded us with information about failed stadiums, sloppy isolated buildings, and, last but not least, what became the prime minister's practice running from highway to highway for cutting strips, and then they fell. Last Wednesday, it became clear that the asphalt on the highway of Maritsa was once again extinct and re-asphalted. Let's not forget the quality of Struma and Trakia highways, which are in permanent repair. We ask: Where are the Ministry of Interior and DANS and why does the prosecution not self-sit? [[Reply from Prime Minister Boyko Borisov.]] Media data, Mr. Prime Minister. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] But this is the tip of the iceberg. Public does not reach the information that the actually used 99% of the 2007-2013 programming period is actually the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer. The Deputy Prime Minister for European Affairs Tomislav Donchev himself admits that the final amount of funds to be recovered from the European funds depends on many factors, including the checks of national audit bodies, the completion of checks on signals of irregularities, and they are not few at all, and others. Therefore, at this stage, the cost of expenditure which will be definitively certified for the reimbursement by the European Commission or the final amount of the funds used can not be indicated. Two adjustments have been imposed to Bulgaria so far: under the Environment Programme and under the Regional Development Programme. The correction under the Operational Programme was of 152,9 million. A correction of nearly 133 million was imposed under the Operational Programme "Regional Development." lv. Both penalties will be paid by the Bulgarian citizens because it is assumed that the violations are of a systemic nature and the beneficiaries should not be guilty. What about the State Fund? A month ago, DANS broke in after reports of large-scale abuse and still hasn't left there. There are dozens of projects whose future fate is not yet clear. The effectiveness, legality and sustainability of the results of hundreds of projects implemented for non-farming activities are questioned, which, in turn, is a prerequisite for cutting funds from the European Commission. Information on a huge sanction imposed under the Rural Development Programme for the old programming period has been rotating in the public domain for months. The latter is for an upcoming punishment of 400 million. EUR due to an arbitrary change of regulation by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food concerning money for agri-environment and subsequently cancelled by the Supreme Administrative Court. All these data show that Bulgarian taxpayers' money is at risk. It is time to tell the truth, gentlemen ruling, not shyly denying the facts! It's no different in the Transport sector. The Managing Authority of the Operational Programme That looks good, but only at first glance. Of the 11 major investment projects covered by the programme 4 have not been completed during the cost-related period. The total value of the contracts under the Operational Programme "Transport" in which problems have been identified is 480 million. EUR, the financial corrections are worth 16.5 million. Euros. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This breaks the myth that GERB absorbs a lot of money from EU funds. According to the latest data of EUROSTATE, our country is 22 in the European Union for the use of funds from 28 member states. Adding financial corrections and the loss of national funds for unfinished projects will prove that we are last in line with these indicators during the first programming period. The last years, especially in the second term of Prime Minister Borisov, the government bet European funds as the main driver of the growth of the Bulgarian economy, but, unfortunately, the movement is on a parking brake. From the information provided by Deputy Prime Minister Donchev to the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds it is clear that the budgets under the start-up euro programmes for the period 2014-2020 will in fact be reduced by about 15% due to incomplete ones from the old programming period. Instead of completely new projects, payments for unfinished payments will have to be made in the country's first programming period of European funding. Relying on information from the Deputy Prime Minister, a winner, 406,57 million. lv. must be provided by state and municipal budgets because one of the essential conditions regarding investment in infrastructure financed by the programme sites is to be completed and put into operation at the time of completion of the programme, namely 31 December 2015. After that date the beneficiaries should finish them with their own funds. Where does that word come from, gentlemen in charge? Is it read in the budget? Who's gonna pay the bill? Naturally, Bulgarian citizens. Unfinished projects for the government such as integration of the urban transport of Sofia, Burgas, Varna, Plovdiv, Stara Zagora, Pleven, Ruse and a number of railways are also incomplete in time and at the expense of the taxpayer. Mr. Prime Minister bravely cuts ribbons instead of punishing and taking account of the sloppy work done. The asphalt has cracked, Prime Minister! [[Arrival in GERB.]] This growth is not achieved, gentlemen ruling! It's an empty transfusion. So far, we're sure, at the expense of the budget, it'll be 400 million. BGN and until 2017 The Lord knows. Let's ask what has happened to the new operational programs for the second year you have managed and nothing is leaving. It seems that we are facing another zero year in terms of absorption of funds. Statistics say the absorption rate is below 2%. You condemn state policy in working with EU funds to failure. In this regard, what will happen to the economic growth of Bulgaria, the foundation of which is the European funds, according to the economic policy of GERB? Nothing, of course! Bulgaria will remain anchored at the bottom of all European rankings and theme for negative evaluation annual reports. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Let's say how things end for the Bulgarian municipalities. Many of them suffered from the lack of administrative capacity on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u62	Colleagues, let your colleague read his material calmly now. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u63	Bad coordination, dear colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u64	Please, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u65	...between different control units...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u66	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u67	...and the existence of, to put it mildly, bad practices have led to impossible financial corrections [[GERB lines]] which will stop the investment process for a long time, especially for small municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u68	I don't understand it at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u69	The blood loss of the municipalities is almost complete. And now, as a wreath of this management infirmity, are the latest changes to the Public Finance Act, where the powers of the finance minister to determine the budgetary fate of local self-government have been given to the European practice. But we're sure the arsin will be double here as well. The political appropriateness...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u70	This was with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u71	...the government will prevail over economic and financial intelligence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u72	That was you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u73	Gentlemen in charge, come to your senses! Be more honest and correct both with our European partners and with the Bulgarian beneficiaries. The formula is clearly less stealing and more correct treatment with municipalities and businesses. Otherwise, the result is a clear total sinking in the swamp of its own carelessness. Thank you. [[World and long applause and applause by BSP LB: Bravo, bravo! Laughter from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. [[Relations between MPs from BSP LB and GERB.]] Colleagues, can we move on to parliamentary control? First today, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov will answer a question from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova concerning the submission by the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly of the Annual Report on the State of National Security. We're listening, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u75	Mr. Prime Minister, my questions are as follows: Why don't you obey the laws of the state? Why don't you follow your own orders? Why did you lie to the National Assembly about a serious topic of national security? First of all, why don't you obey the laws of the country? It is a decision of the National Assembly of 25 February 2011, which adopts the National Security Strategy and the Prime Minister is scheduled to submit a national security report to parliament by the end of March. We are now the end of May and such a report has not been submitted. Why don't you obey your own order? Order No KD 19 of 2016 with which you distribute the portfolios to the Deputy Prime Ministers and on your own responsibility leave only the topic of national security? By this order you are also obliged to submit the report by the end of March. Why did you lie to Parliament? On 15 January 2016 to a question from colleague Stanilov on the same topic you answer the following, I read the shorthand: In conclusion, Mr. Stanilov, an organization has been established and a draft annual report on the state of national security is being prepared in 2015, which will be submitted to the National Assembly by the beginning of March. We are now the end of May, a report has not been submitted. Honourable Members, the Annual National Security Report, if it is done professionally and objectively, and usually these reports are because they are made by experts in the country, is a serious analysis not only of the external threats that have been growing over the last year, it is a serious analysis of the state's internal state by sector. There is an analysis of the state of education, economics, finance, smuggling and serious conclusions and recommendations are made about what Parliament and the Council of Ministers should do to improve the situation in these sectors. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And in previous years, based on these analyses, we have made informed and reasonable decisions. At the moment, however, as I said, Prime Minister Borisov does not comply with his laws, his own order and his promises to the National Assembly, and we do not have this material at an extremely critical time for Bulgaria, not only from the point of view of internal threats, but also from external ones.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u76	Mrs. Ninova, 40 seconds on top! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u77	Thirty-five seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u78	Thirty-five rounds in forty. [[(Laughter and applause from GERB. Replies from BSP LB and GERB, a line from GERB: You are very petty! (Applause)]] Prime Minister Boyko Borisov has the floor for response.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Ninova! I will not respond to your declaration because the local government elections clearly answered you who did what, so I will not fall to this level. [[Applause from GERB.]] The principle of regular information to the Members of the National Assembly and to the public about the activities of the intelligence and security services and the overall system of national security is fundamental to the democratic state. In Bulgaria for the first time it was implemented with the National Security Concept adopted by the 38th National Assembly in 1998. This principle was further developed by the National Security Strategy, in which so called. 157 defined 31 March as the deadline for the submission by the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly of the Annual Report on the State of National Security in the previous year. New development the implementation of this principle received through the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, in the Military Intelligence Act, in the National Agency Act. I recall that before these services worked without law for tens of years. Article 22 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System is comprehensive in this respect. The way to carry out parliamentary control of the National Security Service is also determined, namely through a permanent Commission of the National Assembly. The Special Law on the National Security Service regulates the general management and control carried out by the President and the immediate management and control carried out by the Head of the Office. For the first time with this Law in art. 22, para. 5 the preparation by the intelligence services of non-classified reports on their activities, to be published on the website of the Council of Ministers and thus accessible to the public shall be regulated. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the same Law is determined the obligation of the Council of Ministers to accept and submit to the National Assembly an annual report on the state of national security. The Law does not specify a deadline, unlike the National Security Strategy. In his answer to a question by Prof. Stanislav Stanilov in parliamentary control dated 15 January 2016 pointed out the beginning of March as a possible deadline for submitting this kind of report for 2015, as reports on the activities of intelligence services and the report on the general state of national security should be presented to the National Assembly within a reasonable period with a view to planning policies for the next period. A task force set up by my order has prepared a draft report within the specified time frame. At the same time, the process of preparation of classified and non-classified intelligence reports takes place. Everyone is aware of the series of acts of terrorism that have imposed the attention and efforts of state institutions to act in a crisis situation and the danger of increased migratory pressure. A number of meetings of expert and working groups were held specifically designed to counter terrorism. There were also exercises involving the Ministry of Interior, Defense, intelligence services and local authorities. The participation of these formats of work as a rule is part of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, which, of course, influences the periodicity of its assembly in full. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The meetings of the Security Council to examine the draft Annual Report on the State of National Security were held on 15 April. The project has passed the conciliation procedure within the meaning of art. 32 of the Council of Ministers' Rules of Procedure and approved by the government on 25 May. Despite the complicated situation, the government has not for a moment stopped the process of providing information and reports on the state of national security and public order both to the National Assembly and to the public. On April 8th, with Decision No 247... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u80	You can continue in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u81	...and Decision No 248 were approved and sent to the National Assembly the reports on the activities of the State Agency................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I've got more, but that's the deadline.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u82	The line, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u83	Prime Minister, you don't seem to understand what I'm asking. I do not ask you what laws have been passed as a result of the Strategy, because we know them. I ask you what are the reasons why there is no report. They can be two: or your team is unable to draw it up, which I doubt because the services employ professionals who can do this job; or something in the content of the report bothers you and you do not make it available to Parliament until, how can I say, you set up this information so that it is convenient for management. And yes, I know that yesterday at the Council of Ministers, you accepted this report, even though it was very late. By the way, the deadlines are not desirable, they are fully stated. The Council of Ministers shall submit this to the National Assembly by the end of March. The decision of parliament is explicitly stated, but we will not argue because it is not such an important moment. The content of the report is important. As you can imagine, I've read it in advance. Please don't fire anyone on the Council of Ministers for this job! I take it you've broken the law and the requirements of the deadline strategy. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u84	There are no deadlines in the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u85	Secondly, the second month you cancel my question, I hope, so that you can do your job in the meantime. I therefore accept that the opposition has done our job to pressure you to fulfil your obligations. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The third, which is most important: colleagues, when the report comes here, you will see that the content is not the most impersonal for the government, unless they rework it during this time, of course, while they are slowing it down and hiding it. However, here is the big state issue before the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers and us: shall we take real measures on the report and on what is described inside? Outside of external threats to national security, the findings on domestic problems in the country are serious. One of the topics from which the Prime Minister also wants to escape today as a conversation is the European funds. This is also a state issue because for years you have passed responsibility on to BSP, but let's face it! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The stopped projects in the previous government are only for violations of mayors in the municipalities of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u86	It doesn't have anyone else.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u87	Let's rise above that! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Let us look at the European funds as a state issue! [[Extreme noise and lines from GERB.]] In 2020, European money will run out, honourable MPs, and we do not have a national economy that is the big problem. That money was to create a national economy. You have squandered them and in 2020, the country will be in the dark without any national gross domestic product. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u88	Thank you. A hole, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, on the website of the Council of Ministers has already been published the undisputed version of the report of the State Agency. After receiving non-compliance reports from the State Agency "National Security" and the Military Information Service, they will also be made available to the public. In the performance of art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act was reviewed and approved at a meeting of the Council of Ministers of 4 April 2016 by Decision No 238. The draft report on the state of defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. The project was submitted to the National Assembly on the same day and is in a procedure for consideration in the Standing Committees. On 14 April, the Defence Commission approved this Project. In the performance of their legal obligations arising from the provisions of art. 22, para. 2, p. 3 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act The Council of Ministers approved the country's new Defence Strategy by Decision No 239 of 18 April 2016. The government, ministries and departments represented in the Security Council also carry out a number of activities aimed at improving the quality and timely preparation of the annual reports on the activities of individual bodies and on the general state of national security, as well as the preparation of draft documents of a strategic nature. I would like to conclude with the thesis that national security policy is a matter of common responsibility and effort. This policy should be excluded from inter-party disputes at each stage of the definition of the main guidelines for carrying out the specific activities. And you talking about EU funds, my comment is still unnecessary. Thank you. [[Loud applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u90	Thank you, Mr. Borisov, for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the answers of Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for the Interior. She will answer a question from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov concerning problems of the employees of the positions of a junior investigative police officer, an investigative police officer and a senior investigative officer in the Department of Investigation of the District Department of the Ministry of Interior in the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In the past 2015, in line with the established priorities and programming documents of the Ministry of Interior management, the main efforts and resources were directed in several directions, the more important of which are the following: - limiting crimes against the person and property of citizens in small towns; - Countering crime with priority on corruption and economic crime; - increasing efficiency in the investigation activities of police authorities; - increasing the capacity of investigative officers. As a focus in their activities, problems arise differently displayed in separate regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior in the country as follows. First of all, an increasing number of pre-trial proceedings. Secondly, a low really busy state of investigative officers. Third, a tense situation in relation to the summer tourist season and increased migratory pressure from illegal foreigners crossing the border of the Republic of Bulgaria and its amendments to the Penal Code, which extended the scope of the crimes related to illegal passage and residence and consequently increased the number of newly formed proceedings under art. 281 of the Penal Code. Fourth, a significantly increased number of rapid pre-trial proceedings. Fifth, constant investigation of police officers. Sixth, lower remuneration, opportunities for professional and career development. Seventh, not a good working environment for investigative officers. Eighth, inability to effectively restore employees in an environment outside their business environment and duties and increased professional stress. In view of this, my question to you is as follows: according to the internal priorities of the Ministry of Interior and the adopted government programme for the period 2014 - 2018 under Chapter Security and Public Order, there are objectives set for improving the capacity of investigative police officers in the country. At what stage of the implementation of these objectives is the Ministry of Interior? What are the most problematic regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior in the country? What specific measures have been taken accordingly to improve the general state and professional activity of investigative police officers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u93	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Belemezov, first of all, if you don't mind, I would ask you to verify your statistics and trends with the prosecution's report published on the website of the Prosecutor General's Office. It also contains data on countering crime on a national scale and the activities of investigative bodies. That's where the most accurate information is. I would like to say that this report, not just in the reports of the Ministry of Interior, reports a reduction in the registered common crime and an increase in the crime solved. This trend has been confirmed since the beginning of the year. It has been increased according to the various indicators and data to increase the efficiency of the investigating authorities in the Ministry of Interior, but this can neither comfort us nor satisfy us. The problems that exist are clear. We're trying to solve them. I'd like to clarify a few things other than the reference that I'm going to give you after the answer. First, in addition to the employees appointed to office of a police officer investigating, other investigating authorities in the Ministry of Interior shall be the police authorities in the cases provided for in the Code of Criminal Procedure under art. 52, para. 1, t. 3. In this sense, the trainings we conduct cover a much larger number of police officers and are not limited to those appointed as investigative officers. Priority and step-by-step trainings are implemented with a break-up and those related to job training. A large part of the trainings are held together with the Ministry of Interior Academy, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Institute of Justice and other institutions. I can provide you with a reference on this matter. It's a priority activity. Directs have developed a programme for this year, which is already being implemented. We also ran an analysis of the state of professional preparation of investigative officers. It has been found that this category of employees has not been subject to initial training for several years. That is why we have created the necessary organisation for this kind of practical training, which will be carried out from now on. As the most effective measure, I can point to the reduction in the workload of the investigating police officers and in this regard last year in the framework of the project "Strengthening the capacity of the investigating authorities in the Ministry of Interior" and increasing the effectiveness of the investigation under the Operational Programme "Administrative Capacity" 20 trainings were held. 600 police inspectors and scouts have been trained, including it has been prepared and provided to investigative bodies in the Ministry of Interior. 212, para. 2. In addition, an operative letter from the Secretary General of the Interior dated 23 March 2016 introduced monitoring of the main and regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior on the use of the police authorities in the Ministry of Interior, outside the investigative police officers, of the use of the PPC, of the possibility to carry out an investigative action. The information received from the various structures is summarised by the Directorate General "National Police" and an analysis is to be carried out by them on the specific problems and the necessary measures to be taken. In short, we monitor this process and take action in the course of the process itself, not waiting for time to pass. To the problems you mentioned, I can also point out the dual subordination of investigative police officers in the country between the Ministry of Interior and the Prosecutor's Office. On the one hand, they are employees of the Ministry of Interior. On the other hand, they are functionally subordinate to the prosecution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u94	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Belemezov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u95	Thank you for your reply, Deputy Prime Minister, but in fact within three minutes in which you replied, I was able to understand that you have an additional reference that you will provide to me, for which I thank you, but all the time you talked about conducting trainings and possibly about introducing monitoring. In fact, these are the most effective measures. I took the liberty in my question to list at least eight directions that minimize the effectiveness of investigative officers. And in each of these directions we should take the appropriate measures. In view of this, I will express my dissatisfaction with the answer to your reply, but I will be particularly aware of the reference you provide me. I would like to express to you that the activities of investigative officers are obviously facing a variety of problems. We were able to hear in a sense and some statistics. What concerns me most, however, is that we have not heard the individual decisions that should be proposed by the Ministry of Interior to improve the working environment of investigative police officers. Some of the problems they face are similar and common, including for many of the other Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. I am convinced that, in order to improve overall efficiency in the different directorates, a systematic approach is needed. That is to say, a uniform approach to be put in place as a priority, in line with the priorities for internal security in the various Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. In this way, we will also have the opportunity to improve the overall situation in the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior as regards the activities of investigative police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. A hole? You won't take advantage. The next question is from the MPs Philip Popov and Georgi Svilenski on the illegal activities of the Ministry of the town of Dimovo. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u97	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! On 16 April 2016 in Dimovo there was a protest of citizens related to the poor condition of the road network in Dimovo and the road Dimovo. One of the participants in the protest wore a hat with the symbols of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. After the police authorities intervened, the protester was forced to take off the hat. Dear Minister, the members and sympathizers of any party are citizens, above all. At the protest there were representatives of various political forces and parties wearing different clothes. Only the person wearing the hat of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, however, was removed from the protesters and was instructed to take off the hat. Wearing hats with any abbreviation on it is not provocation, it is not an agitation within the meaning of our Election Code. In this regard, it is also our question to you: on the basis of what provision do the law enforcement authorities exercise control over the clothing of the Bulgarian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u98	Thank you, Mr. Filipov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u99	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear gentlemen Popov and Svilenski, your question, if I were to paraphrase it, would sound like this: on the basis of what provision do the law enforcement authorities keep public order? I assume you're aware of the circumstances of this protest on April 16th. Our inspection has been carried out and finds that there is no violation of rights or unlawful acts by our employees, but here I take the opportunity to explain to the MPs and remind you that it is a civil protest organised by the citizens of Dimovo, to which citizens from other settlements have joined, which has led to some aggravation of tensions and aggravation of the reactions of the legally protesting citizens of Dimovo. The case of the hat of the person to whom there was an insistence to be removed, first, was carried out at the request of the organizers of the protest, who did not want them to be joined by other people who had nothing to do with their demands. The fact that there was a designation of your party's abbreviation has been further heated on this occasion and therefore the organizers have addressed our employees to control the situation and not to allow tensions to rise. This is the situation and I hope on specific occasions that fair civil protests are not used for further political speculation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u100	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. For a replica, the public representative Georgi Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We cannot be satisfied with the answer, because the question was precise and clear.. based on what provision do your employees take off their hats or take off people, or anything? In this case, the hat of a citizen involved in a legal protest was taken off for asking the officer of this man's order to be taken off his hat. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, of course there is a desire of right-wing lawmakers to impose sanctions for banning any symbols, whether communist or socialist. However, such a law has not yet been passed. Still the hat with the BSP logo is not perceived as a burka to be these people forced to take off these hats. There is no law in Bulgaria that says that Bulgarian citizens cannot wear any hats with any abbreviations. Regarding the fact that they have joined the protest of other citizens, the protest is about the state of the road, civil protest and these people participate as citizens, they do not participate as representatives of the BSP there. And if BSP's hat was some kind of provocation for the employees of the Ministry of Interior, then I ask the poster, ironing the premiere, provocation to whom is it? This is not a party pep talk, because the Prime Minister is responsible for the condition of this road there. And when he trembles here, when we talk to him about the highways of Struma and Maritsa, let him go to Dimovo to see what roads he left the people there to travel, not take their hats off when they protest. So, Madam Minister, please, no longer allow your employees in any form to exert such pressure, because this is political pressure on participants in civil protests. If the Ministry of Interior doesn't have the means for hats, for belts, for equipment, we can give hats to BSP as much as you want. Put on all employees a hat, but don't take them, they need to declare their civil protests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u103	I never thought a hat could be the subject of a parliamentary debate. This is your contribution to parliamentary practice, and if there's nothing else to say, you're using the hat. [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] There's no forced removal of a hat, no forced undressing, no political repression. However, there is ten times more speculation about this case. The purpose of the presence of our employees there is to guard public order, and they are invited by the organizers. They comply with the requirements of the organizers and there is no unlawful action towards the person who was wearing this hat, and there is an insistence that he removes it so as not to provoke further aggression on himself. [[BSP LB.]] I hope in the next question we have more principled topics for debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u104	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. The next question is to Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism. She will answer a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev on the results of the summer season 2015 and measures to improve the tourism sector. You have the floor, Mr. Binev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u105	Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, honourable colleagues! Even before the official beginning of the summer season in 2015 the claim that it will be one of the weakest for the Republic of Bulgaria so far has spread. A similar statement you have said repeatedly. I understand that some of the reasons for this are related to the complicated international situation, which led to a drastic tide of certain groups of tourists, but this is also due to problems that have existed in Bulgaria for years and continue to have an adverse impact on the development of tourism. We are talking about problems such as over-development, the shortage of qualified personnel, the high share of the grey economy in the tourism sector and many others. I think it is necessary to prepare a detailed analysis of the past summer season to undergo a serious debate. We need to pay serious attention to the difficulties faced by travel workers in order to gain an overall picture of this situation. What are the results of the last summer season and what measures will the Ministry of Tourism take to address the identified problems; when are serious results expected to be seen at last? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u106	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u107	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, regarding your question about the results of the last summer season I inform you of the following. Indeed, the summer season 2015 was difficult and challenging, but the pre-defined scenarios with apocalyptic paintings did not come true. The fact is that there was a decline in the traditional market, as is Russian, due to the international situation and a significant devaluation of the value of the ruble. However, it remains in the focus of our attention as a major target market. In this regard, I inform you that the intensive and thorough dialogue that we have built and maintained with representatives of the Russian Federation is already giving its concrete results. After an intergovernmental meeting of the two countries at the end of January signed a Protocol on Cooperation in the field of tourism, a month later I received the opportunity to present Bulgaria as an attractive tourist destination to the Russian State. I would like to point out that such an opportunity has not been received by the Bulgarian minister in the last 27 years. In this context, as a clear political signal, the words of the President of the Federal Tourism Agency Mr. Oleg Safonov said that Bulgaria is first among the destinations suitable to accept the Russian tourist traffic in 2016. The specific data declared by the Chairman of the Association of Russian Tour Operators Mrs. Maya Lomidse indicate between 20 and 30% growth of the early entries to our country, as well as the newly applied accreditation of 30 new local tour operators to work with Bulgaria market. The total increase in requested charter flights to airports Varna and Burgas is 35%, with only 86% growth in Russian charters. I am saying all this to point out to you that Russia is a key market for us, in which we are making a great deal of effort to overcome last year's decline. We managed to build wonderful communication with our Russian partners and restore traditional positive attitude on their part, even more taking into account the dynamics of the international environment. As regards the Central and Eastern European markets, as well as the number one market for summer 2015 After a meeting with the management of Tui-Germany, with Mr. Oliver Durstuk, CEO, the expected estimates of the tour operator were for a 35% increase in charter flights. Currently, these data are already exceeded, with specific figures showing growth in Germany market of 49%; growth of nearly 60% on the market Poland, as well as the Czech market growth of 27%. As a result of talks with the President of the Association of French Tour Operators, I inform you that for 2016 there is a charter line of In addition to the answer to your question regarding the Black Sea tourism product, especially in its main part of maritime tourism, the government's policy prioritizes the construction of environmental infrastructure. Specific examples of addressing the problem of clean water are the construction of waste water treatment plants in the municipalities of Pomorie and Sozopol, as well as the Cleaning Station for Water of Water of the Sea, which will cover the entire region of Nessebar, Sunny Beach. "Vlass" and "Lelens" Last week, the Environmental Action Management Company (PDOOS) granted Tsarevo 746 thousand to Tsarevo Municipality. lv. for the construction of a content tank of the Purification Station. I'll keep going in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u108	Thank you. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Look, Madam Minister, it's not really just Russia. The problems with Russia are not because of the tension of the international political environment. There are, you know, orders on the garrison to enjoy the resorts of Russia. There are many things, and they are not related to whether there are problems here or not. Tourism in Bulgaria is morally outdated and is at an extremely low level. Measures must be taken for its strategic development. In some way, it must represent something new, be a new interest for those who love tourist services and those who benefit from them. Something must be done that not only removes the concrete fortresses that are built on our Black Sea coast. We need to make some strategy to be discussed on a public level. Decide after all what we do: cheap tourism that will discredit us, whether on the BBC or on some other program?! You know very well that the level of money spent on a tourist in Bulgaria and a tourist in France is dramatically great. So we have to do something to change this strategy and not just be a naughty destination that they're trying to make us, but try to do something better that will make tourists who are willing to spend a lot more money coming to the country. This happens when there is a strategy, when there is institutional support and when there are no double standards. Unfortunately, there are double standards, because some of the things are being removed, others are absolutely similar, similarly built, not removing something that creates the mood that actually solves everything in the Ministry in some way. I'll introduce you to some examples, of course. But rest assured that something needs to be done to restore people's trust and we can be a unique destination, because these are destinations in the tourist industry that they can sell. Everything else is a waste where there's no money and there's activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u110	You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u111	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Binev, I can assure you that the main goal of the Ministry of Tourism is to make Bulgaria a sustainable, year-round tourist destination. In this regard, an update of the Strategy for Sustainable Tourism Development has already been developed by 2030, which will also be presented for public discussion by the end of the year in order to be able to be voted on. Of course, the problems in tourism that you are talking about may be more than 30 years. The Ministry of Tourism has existed for a year and a half. In the course of this year and a half, compared to the difficult season we had last year, for this summer from all markets - traditional and unconventional for Bulgaria, we register growth. This shows that the trust in the Bulgarian tourist product is restored. The fact is that there is still a great deal of work to be done both in the field of personnel security and in the face of our national resorts. But agree that in a year and a half this cannot happen only by the Ministry of Tourism, there is also no way that the Ministry of Tourism has a double standard in terms of issues that have been closed down for more than 30 years. I can assure you of the desire and role of the Ministry of Tourism, in all the intensive efforts the entire team has, and the entire cabinet about making tourism a sustainable industry and making Bulgaria a recognizable year-round tourist destination in the high segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u112	Thank you. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Petar Kadiev on the assessment of the potential for tourism development in Smolyan region. Here you are, Mr. Kadyev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Tourism is one of the main livelihood activities in Smolyan region. During your last visit to the region on 14 January 2016, you explained in detail what are the opportunities for advertising cultural and historical landmarks. The potential opportunities for the development of balneology have been discussed with you, but the main focus has remained slightly sidetracked, namely the desire of the Smolyan people to become a destination competing in Bansko, Borovets, and why not the European winter resorts. For this purpose it is necessary to build a cabin lift from Smolyan to Pamporovo, but the funds for this have not been found yet. The huge investments to be made are hard to find. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following question: how do you assess the tourist potential of the town of Smolyan? Do you think the State can help promote investment in the region's infrastructure projects?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u114	Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kadiev, Smolyan District has a diverse tourist potential and natural and cultural heritage, which allows the development of different types of tourism, mountain, eco and rural, cultural, SPA and others, which fully corresponds to the policy of the Ministry of Tourism for Development not only of traditional tourism products, but also of specialized ones. With regard to Smolyan region and the Rhodope region, I personally share the thesis on the need to deploy the large-scale potential for the development of a wide range of tourist services. To achieve this goal, we are implementing a policy to form a clear diversification of our country as a tourist destination. For the Ministry of Tourism, the work and partnership with municipalities, the non-governmental and private sectors are of paramount importance and it aims to enrich the range of offered tourism products on the basis of competitive potential and to improve the quality of the services offered. In this context, targeted measures are being taken by drawing up Bulgaria's investment map in the field of tourism. Thus, in practice, we create an opportunity for targeted design of possible investment projects. The most interested and, at the same time, the most competent partner of ours in terms of making use of these local development opportunities are local authorities. In this sense, the Ministry needs feedback in order to avoid the centralised approach and achieve an optimal level of balance, following the set management principle. In this connection, investment proposals from Smolyan district came from the municipalities of Smolyan, Zlatograd, Banite, Chepelare and Madan. The investment map is part of the integrated policy for introducing a model for stimulating investment in modernisation of the material base according to the principles of sustainable development. The institutionalisation of this mechanism will be finalised through the steps to turn the Ministry of Tourism into a kind of wan stop shop for strategic tourism investors. The aim is a single communication channel for the implementation of administrative procedures in the interest of strategic investors. That's how we increate a two-way model of work. On the one hand, by more active marketing of already selected investment proposals, and on the other, by exploiting the administrative burden of already interested potential investors. As regards the development of winter tourism infrastructure, the Ministry has always declared its positive position in compliance with environmental legislation. I believe that in a dialogue mode it is possible to achieve a balanced solution to protect the environment and biodiversity by using in parallel the opportunities and competitive potential for validating Bulgaria as a modern tourist destination of the highest class. That is why I initiated the creation of a working group to discuss proposals for amendments to the Tourism Act to encourage mountain tourism, in particular ski tourism. Tourism is a horizontal sector and its successful development is directly linked to a number of parallel processes. Analogy exists with regard to a large-scale infrastructure project, as you quoted at this stage only a preliminary project for building a cabin lift that connects the town of Smolyan with the Pamporovo resort. That is why I can comment only on the principle position of the Ministry of Tourism, but not on a deeper and more detailed discussion. In the presence of specific intentions, estimates and data, I am prepared to initiate public consultation with all interested parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u116	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Kadyev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you were the first minister to step foot on Smolyan's territory and report on tourism in the Smolyan region. That made us very happy. We have discussed, together with you, the opportunities and prospects for tourism development. In fact, it's half the business in the Smolyan region. The other is farming. I don't ask that question for a reason. Two years ago, I managed to find two investors, but as a result of the fact that KTB went bankrupt, the investors backed off, they got scared. In the city we see a rapid development of the tourist destination through the creation of a cabin lift. This will give opportunities not only for the development of balneotherapy, but in general for the development of the tourism industry, for the development of the region. That's why I'm asking things to happen sooner. I have seen how ambitiously you encourage the construction of such facilities in Bansko, for which I admire you. This is the way. From now on, things depend on all of us to find a way and form, to look if we have to, investors, but to happen, because the Smolyan region is currently as the Vidin region. My request is that we take this step as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u118	Thank you. We can move on to the next question again from the National Representative Slavi Binev about a drastic decline in tourist accommodations in 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! According to the latest Eurostat data, Bulgaria ranks third in the fall of tourist nights for the European Union for 2015. This will hardly surprise anyone. The number of nights is 21 million. 500 thousand, which is more than 1% less than the previous year 2014. In comparison, in Romania, the number of overnight stays increased by 16%, which means 23 million. Six hundred thousand. The country even ranks among the leaders on growth for 2015. The data is contrary to your optimistic expectations for growth of foreign tourists and achieve much better results. The difference in data between the two countries leads me to believe that in Bulgaria there are a number of problems in the field of tourism and measures need to be taken to improve this situation. What measures will be taken by the Ministry to achieve growth in tourist accommodations and to deal with the most ill problems? What is your opinion on statistics distributed by Eurostat? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u120	Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, the quoted data from you are according to Eurostat's preliminary assessment for the whole of 2015 and are close to the final data published by the National Statistical Institute. The main reason for the decline in the total number of overnight nights realised by foreigners in 2015 is the decline in tourist traffic from Russia due to the international situation and devaluation in the value of the ruble. If we exclude the Russian market, the total number of overnights made by foreigners in Bulgaria, without including Russian tourists, has increased by 314 thousand in 2015 compared to 2014. This gives us reason to believe that Bulgaria has already achieved good results on a number of important markets for us. In 2015, the number of accommodations made by tourists from the European Union increased by 428 thousand compared to the previous 2014, which is an increase of more than 5%. It should be noted, however, that last year was very successful on the internal market, with the number of nights of Bulgarian citizens rising by 5.6% and already exceeding 8 million, with an average growth for the European Union of 3%. This is what Bulgaria ranks among the leading 10 countries in the European Union on the growth of the nights in the internal market. If we go back to the topic of the decline in the number of Russian tourists, it should be noted that it felt in all popular destinations for Russian tourists internationally. Moreover, according to data for the first nine months of 2015, Bulgaria ranked eighth in the number of trips of Russian tourists, while in the same year in 2014, we were in the tenth position. This shows that Bulgaria is performing significantly better at competitive destinations on the market Russia despite the reported decline in the number of Russian tourists. The interest remains very high this year. According to data from Russia's holiday search system, the country ranked fourth in popularity in the ranking of the most wanted holiday destinations in April 2016. By comparison, your Romania does not even fall into the leading fifty market destinations of Russia, which in itself means that the decline of Russian tourists on a global scale did not have a particular impact on the overall tourist traffic towards Romania. With regard to specific statistical trends, I can present you with preliminary results from the winter tourist season. We are reading growth in the number of tourists, and that is against the backdrop of the fact that last year we had a very strong winter season. In December 2015, Bulgaria was visited by over 1.2 million foreign nationals without transits. Their number increased by 4.5% compared to the same period last year. It is even more encouraging that the increase in vacation and vacation visits is 18.7%. I can provide you with specific data from our winter resorts such as Bansko, Borovets and Pamporovo welcomed more foreign tourists during this winter season. For example, in Borovets Resort for the period December 2015 - March 2016 the total number of accommodations held in accommodations with over 10 beds is more than 280 thousand, which is 17.3% more than the last winter season. Strong growth is also observed in the number of nights realized by Bulgarian citizens "over 108 thousand," or by 27 whole more. The number of overnighters during the current winter season is over 80 thousand, which is nearly 16.2% more than the last winter season. With regard to Bansko, again for the same period: December 2015 lv. All this shows that the measures taken for 2016 are already in operation, including today's data from the National Statistical Institute show 11% more growth of tourists in April 2016 compared to April 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u122	Thank you. Mr. Binev, come in for further arguments on the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, not only do you suspect criticism in my questions, but an attempt to draw your attention to the ill-fated problems. There are problems and this statistic is not random. We can quote individual data that will increase our mood and think that everything is wonderful, but this will not make tourism better in Bulgaria and solve the problems. One of the first things a ministry should start working with is that you say that you are already a ministry, and in fact from the moment this agency is the Ministry, the results have fallen, which basically means that whether it will be a ministry or something else, does not solve the issue. Questions are solved by people who really have vision, a strategy that know how to discuss this strategy and how to implement it. We've got to stop, enough of this Russia! She is not the only customer on the tourist market either in Bulgaria or in the world. Yes, Russian tourists are important, but there are a lot of tourists. If we see statistics around the world, we'll find that there are too many tourists outside the Russians. The Chinese are also one of the great tourists in the world, although in certain places they do not give them visas or make them pay extra in some way. I have prepared the questions one after the other, so you should actually make a remark to your assistants who apparently prepare these questions because the answers to these questions are even confronted in some way. On the first question you said that everything with the Russians has already been decided that things have happened there, for which we can only rejoice and throw our hats in the air, and in the next question it turns out that in fact the Russian market has affected so badly the overall system of counting and statistics in Bulgaria. We must do everything we can to accept criticism and remarks, not try to quote data that could sound more violent. There's no need for that. In my opinion, the first step for the decision of any question is its recognition and awareness. There is no way to solve the problems, since we explain ourselves that there are no problems and that there are no problems in the work of the Ministry. Then we're doomed to never being able to solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u124	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Here you are, Mrs. Angelkova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Binev! I think I'm clearly speaking with facts. There is no confusion because one of your questions concerns the expectations for 2016 and the other one concerns the decline of Russian tourists for 2015. In the Ministry, we deal with facts and quote facts and data. I have repeatedly stated that the main goal of the Ministry is to make us a sustainable tourist destination and work in this direction. Also, the problems in the sector, again repeatedly stated, are not from yesterday and today. They require a consistent policy such as the Ministry of Tourism leads. We do not deny that there are or no problems, we are preparing solutions for their solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u126	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Binev, your next question is about a policy for maintaining and preserving the sea beaches in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, I see you're pleased with your work. By the way, I've never asked a question to a minister who wasn't happy with his work and didn't accuse me of some misunderstanding or something and so on. Whatever we talk about, everyone can see with their own eyes what tourism is in Bulgaria and most importantly: not what it is, but that there is no vision for its transformation. That's the biggest problem. Now to the point. In fact, when I heard all this, I was wondering whether I should withdraw my other questions, because in the end, the point of asking these questions is to focus on the problems, not to give a minister or someone else the opportunity to say that everything is wonderful and I have not read things properly. In our country, unfortunately, things are not right. In recent years, our country has maintained the image of a cheap destination where only low quality tourist services and poor service are available. Should we build and present such an image of Bulgaria?! One of the measures to improve the situation is to ensure maximum maintenance and conservation of sea beaches and not allow our Black Sea coast to become a concrete jungle. You have recently stated that the ban on camping is a step towards environmentally friendly tourism and ensuring maximum protection on the beaches of Irakli, Coral and Kara dere. However, the question of the existence of a comprehensive strategy of the Ministry of Tourism for the conservation of the sea beaches comes to the fore and dealing with the problems that we are facing at the moment. Please present the measures identified by the Ministry of Tourism for the maintenance and conservation of sea beaches in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u128	Here you are, Madam Minister for Answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Binev, as you know, according to the amendments in the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, which were adopted about two months ago, the management of the sea beaches passed from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to the Ministry of Tourism. I fully agree with you that the beaches are a defining part of our summer tourism and a leading cause for thousands of tourists who choose our country for their holiday. They form over 70% of the summer tourism product and it determines the main part of the revenue in the sector. That is why, since the creation of a separate Ministry of Tourism, we have been working consistently to develop a concept of changing the way of their management. We predict that sea beaches will be grouped according to their individual characteristics. Also, when preparing the minimum concession remuneration methodologies leading not to the price but to the additional services offered. The ultimate objective is to encourage the supply of more services at more acceptable prices, while allowing the concessionaire to develop the beach according to its natural and geographical resources. As a result, we have already developed a model of the Concept for grouping, classification and categorization of sea beaches and the modification of the Methodology for determining the minimum size of the concession payment. The concept is based on the creation of four main groups of sea beaches as follows: a group of one sea beaches in urban areas; a group of two sea beaches in unurbanised areas, close to a tourist destination or campsites; a group of three sea beaches in non-urbanised areas, away from tourist destination or campsites and a group of four sea beaches with limited use and designated for the development of special type tourism. Within each of the first three groups is proposed the creation of three separate classes. The fourth group does not provide for the establishment of classes due to the specific features of sea beaches that will fall within its scope. The criteria are currently being discussed for the identification of individual classes and in the groups themselves. We are also working on setting up sea beaches according to the services offered. At this time the document is in the working version and is to be discussed in advance with the representatives of the tourism industry and concessionaires. The aim is to reflect operationally the opinions and recommendations of those employed in the sector in order to be made public for public consultation. The described process and complexity of matter require time, with the realistic deadline for implementing the new management model is Summer season 2017. That is why we have focused our efforts on the smooth running of Summer season 2016 under the current regulations. For the first time, the order to determine the list of unguarded beaches was issued by me until 31 March. So far, the deadline was May 31st, which greatly reduced the time of district governors and mayors to provide water rescue and cleaning of these beaches. Parallelly we started a series of procedures for renting on beaches. I can inform you that we have currently conducted 41 procedures for renting on sea beaches. As a result, we already have selected tenants on 20 beaches, where no candidates appear, we are conducting new procedures at 30% lower price, and with a second round and 50% lower, in the third round, according to the Rules for Implementation of the State Property Act. I have personally held meetings in places with regional governors and mayors of Black Sea municipalities and with concessionaires, and I have the assurance that no visited beach will be left without water saving and cleaning during the active summer season. I am sure that with joint efforts we will welcome a good season and we will lay the basis for improving the quality of our summer tourist product through more and more affordable services on Bulgarian beaches. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u130	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Binev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, as Minister, you have funds that are allocated to a communication strategy. Even if you don't, you, as the Ministry, can always use the means by which they can be presented to the public as transparently, transperently as possible all your actions and strategies that you need to implement. I particularly think that these things should be explained to the public, to put out the whole strategy of how our Black Sea coast will look like, which beaches will remain virgin; who will remain with opportunities to use more limited; how will be done to really return these pristine beaches and the pristine nature that are already blurry in most places; which places will actually be urbanized and how will return the way these Lilanic blocks to some of the most beautiful places in Bulgaria to be no longer allowed and to find a way from here on to be built appropriate or by some standards that will enable urbanization to be in relation to ecology. This is decided in many places around the world.. almost all hotels have the right to build at the height of palm trees, do not have the right to them, except for very few places that have made a mistake, at least waiting to be able at some point to deal with them for example. Here you need to find the option to really have places where you feel not that you have gone to your own neighborhood, only that the sun and the sea, but that you have really gone on vacation where you feel and touch nature something that, unfortunately, is currently missing in many of the beaches of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u132	Thank you. Here you go. These were complementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u133	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Binev, I agree with you and therefore I assure you that the overall concept, which is already ready in the working version, is discussed with all interested parties and will be presented for the broadest public discussion. The idea is really to have a working concept for managing sea beaches and to comply with their individual characteristics so that we can attract more and more solvent tourists and raise the level of our tourist product. I can assure you of these commitments by the Ministry of Tourism that all interested parties will also be kept informed and heard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u134	Thank you. You have the opportunity to express your attitude to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u135	In fact, we've finally come to the right step. It was something that had to be done and had to be done, in my opinion, much earlier. You've been a minister for a year and a half. I think that this year and a half, let's say three or four months to gather the puzzle, to gather the information, to sort things out, but it really had to start with some strategy much more dedicated and much earlier, so that those who are currently involved in this market can say their remarks, so that it can really already have a second, third reading, can be revised and, accordingly, when absolutely all countries are satisfied and welcome it with applause, to start being implemented. Something that, sadly, your four-year mandate to be alive and well to get it through will not be enough for such a strategy to be adopted. Thank you and have a good weekend!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u136	Thank you. The last question to Minister Angelkova is from the National Representative Chavdar Peychev on the upcoming summer 2016 tourist season, so the preparation begins from the 2015 talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, this year for the summer season, thanks to the international political conjuncture, an increase in the tourist flow is expected by more than 20%. The promotion of foreign tourists creates prerequisites for some of the hoteliers to use unregulated primos to increase their profits, as has happened in past years. This year will come many foreign tourists for the first time in our country and the incorrect behavior of few hoteliers would reflect on the overall appearance of Bulgarian tourism and the desire of tourists to rest next time on our resorts. In this regard, I ask you to answer what statistics do you have for the previous three summer seasons concerning double reservations in hotels on our Black Sea coast, and what measures have you taken to reduce this negative for the image of Bulgarian tourism phenomenon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u138	Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Peychev, first of all I would like to inform you that we, as an administration, have done our best to encourage early recordings. We took concrete steps in all major tourist markets and participated in all major international tourist exhibitions and made direct contact with major tour operators. Currently all data show an increase in summer 2016. According to information from leading tour operators and hoteliers, the number of reservations significantly exceeds last year's level to date. The growth of reservations from Poland, the Czech Republic, Germany, Russia, England, France, Israel, Romania, Greece and other major markets is significant. It is a fact that for the current situation there is also a geopolitical situation, but it is important to emphasise what the country has done for advertising and established contacts at political level. I also use your question as another opportunity to call on the tourism industry for maximum mobilisation to provide the necessary quality of the tourist product. Because I would like to point out that if those tourists, for whom we are already a preferred destination during the upcoming tourist season, and especially if those who choose us for the first time, encounter an insufficiently high level of service, unqualified staff or inappropriate treatment, they will not return in 2017 and we will not be able to do anything. I therefore call for responsibility on the part of the business that we have declared. We have a unique chance, and it's up to us to use it in the best possible way. That is why, in recent weeks, I have initiated local meetings in all Black Sea municipalities to talk on the spot with representatives of the local authorities and tourism industry. Meetings were initiated with both concessionaires and hoteliers, restaurants, including at the regional level in Varna and Burgas and representatives of all control bodies to coordinate the efforts of the state and to guarantee the rights of consumers and the quality of the tourist product. Regarding your specific question about statistics and duplication of bookings, on official information from the Commission for Consumer Protection, as a responsible institution for consumer rights protection and control of compliance with the requirements of the Tourism Act, I inform you that no complaints and alerts for duplicate reservations have been registered within the previous three seasons. The lack of complaints could also be interpreted as an expression of a sufficient level of self-regulation in the sector to neutralize such phenomena. Judging by the lack of official signals, it appears that the industries are able to use enough internal composite resources in the form of a bed base and services without reducing the quality of the product offered, thus not reaching the wishes for intervention by the state authorities for violated consumer rights. In addition, in contract terms with major tour operators... [[the President signals that time has run out]] , although private-commercial relations are a strong guarantor for prevention of such events. To conclude, I assure you that we are working extremely closely with the Commission for Consumer Protection in order to carry out maximum control and guarantee the rights of all consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u140	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Peichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u141	Dear Minister, we at the Bulgarian Democratic Center have repeatedly stated that the development of tourism in Bulgaria is a top priority. We follow your work and do not deny your positive role in improving the situation in tourism. You really bring to the industry all the desires and needs they have, you try to react and administratively ease their work. We do not deny your countless meetings and visits to tourist fairs in other countries. The point is that Bulgarian tourism needs standardization, which I am not sure can be done only through self-regulation. What we appeal to you is to increase administrative pressure, to have more regulation on the part of the state and control the processes that take place in the tourism industry. We also appeal for the neutralization of green racketeering, which is on tourism in Bulgaria. As summer tourism suffers from uncontrolled beach camping, winter tourism needs to build many more ski slopes and lifts. In this regard, I asked this question because, in our opinion, it is not just the Ministry, which is a guarantor of the level of the tourist product in Bulgaria, to appeal, but to actually regulate, administer and exert pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u142	Thank you, Mr. Peichev. Mrs. Minister, you have the possibility of closing the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Peychev! I can assure you that the desire and direction in which the Ministry of Tourism is working is precisely for improving the tourism product and making it sustainable in order to ensure Bulgaria as an attractive, sustainable destination. Everything that is necessary with the supply of different regulations and in general changes related to the Tourism Act is to be discussed with you as well as with all interested ones. You know that the public discussion under the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Tourism is ongoing and there are a large part of the proposals you are making are reflected. We are going to discuss them thoroughly so that we can find a balanced and working solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u144	Thank you. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions to which Lilyana Pavlova will answer " Minister of Regional Development and Public Works." We start with a triple combination of asking by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov about the financing of sites from the road infrastructure by regions, along with his question about financing sites from the road infrastructure in Northern Bulgaria, and a question from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov on the completion of the highway "Hemus" to Veliko Tarnovo. Mr. Veselinov, you will have five minutes to ask your questions and questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u145	Mr. Chairman, I will try to be shorter as they are united, but the subject is sufficiently similar. First of all, we are talking about a trend lasting decades for less attention and less allocated financial resources for Northern Bulgaria, which is evident from all possible statistics. At the same time, after the cancellation of the auctions for the motorway "Hemus" and after another of my inquiries to another minister, in connection with the Operational Programme "Transport" it became clear that for large infrastructure projects under this programme north of the Balkan region are foreseen by the order of 30 million. BGN, while over 2 billion will be invested south of the Balkan. As is known, the funds from the European funds must be used to eliminate the difference in the development of the regions, something that does not happen in our case. Moreover, in the Law on Regional Development, we also have such a goal... the absorption of differences in the development of the regions. It is obvious that this goal does not have the tools it is implemented with. There have been proposals from our group on legislative changes to regulate the fair use of public resources by regions, which unfortunately did not receive support. The fact is that Northern Bulgaria is economically lagging behind, stagnating, the population is declining. By 14% has decreased in less than a decade, while the rate of decline in population to the south of the Balkan is more than three times lower. There should be an organised, targeted policy for building infrastructure to attract investment north of the Balkan, which, again, I say, unfortunately, I do not at least see this happening. There are short-term stocks that have no serious effect. In this regard, I would like to ask the following questions: 1. Since Bulgaria's entry into the European Union, how many sites of road infrastructure and of what value have they been realized with European funds in Northern Bulgaria, and how much and how much value in Southern Bulgaria? 2. The same question I would ask about funding with national funds. 3. The third question I would like to ask is: by the end of this planning period, according to the Ministry's predictions, how many sites of road infrastructure and how much will they be financed with European and national funds in Northern Bulgaria, and how much and at what value in southern Bulgaria? In view of the dramatic differences in the development of the regions, I would like to ask the Minister whether she considers it appropriate to create a special mechanism to ensure the priority financing of the infrastructure in the forgotten for two decades Northern Bulgaria and whether there is a concept of such a mechanism. I also have a few specific questions that are related to the change of the project for the highway "Struma" and the dropping of this expensive tunnel, which is in the Kresna Gorge. There have been numerous presentations that about 300 million will be saved, they will be headed to the highway of Hemus. I would like to know whether this will happen and what will be the sources of funding for the sign infrastructure projects in Northern Bulgaria as the highway of the city of Hemus, the road of Ruse, Veliko Tarnovo, which is also intended to be a highway, as well as the road of speed Vidin...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u146	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Please, Mr. Ivanov, ask Minister Pavlova your question as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is related to the highway from Yablanitsa to Veliko Tarnovo or to the connection with the road or highway from Ruse to Svilengrad. I would say that this is an extremely important issue for the region and is almost as old as the fortress Tsarevets. Several consecutive management mandates refer to the construction of the highway "Hemus" and in particular in the part around Veliko Tarnovo. Either way, things are being promised, commitments are being made, and the moment a certain management mandate starts, it happens that the construction of the highway is falling behind. My question is related to this: First of all, is the public procurement shut down for the construction of this particular part? We know that the Prime Minister has announced such a thing. Secondly, at what stage is the design of this section? The third part of my question is related to this.. has an idea and commitment the highway to go closer to Veliko Tarnovo itself, because on the previous project, which I know that you said was cheaper, now it will become more expensive in some way, but the idea is to pass closer to Veliko Tarnovo, because, you know, this is an area quite developed agglomeration, tourist area, and the continuation of the highway to Veliko Tarnovo will actually give a much greater and better chance to the region for economic development. This is my question, and I am asking you for a specific answer, including deadlines related to planning, designing and undertaking that the highway will be built in the version that is closer to the city itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Minister Pavlova, you have the floor to answer Mr. Veselinov's question and Mr. Ivanov's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u149	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Veselinov, Mr. Ivanov! We summarized the answer to the question because it concerns mainly both Northern Bulgaria and the construction of the highway "Hemus" and investments in general in Northern Bulgaria, so I proposed its unification, but I hope that I will be able to give a comprehensive answer to all three questions raised. Unfortunately, if we look back at the statistics and the period of 2007. From Bulgaria's accession to the European Union so far, we can really recognise an unpleasant trend that we see from the implemented projects, namely that in the projects implemented for rehabilitation, reconstruction or construction of road infrastructure, there is a predominance in southern Bulgaria, which is mainly due to the built-up full-time highway "Trakiya" and "Maritsa" highway, with which in fact the main share, as you said, of the funding available in the 2007-2013 programming period under the Operational Programme "Transport" was invested there. However, if we deepen this analysis, I can say that this has not been done for the reason or with the desire of each of the governments, I would say to finance only southern Bulgaria at the expense of North and one of the main reasons I find this is the good project readiness that was present at that time, namely for projects for the completion of both the highway and the highway of Maritsa and the other road sections, so yes. I can answer the first question with the right answer. We have a serious difference in the ratio of investment from both European funds and the budget within the framework of the construction of rehabilitation of road infrastructure in southern Bulgaria compared to Northern, which somewhere one in four, and may be more depending on how we think sources. What I can say, however, is that in spite of everything, there are not very few invested funds in Northern Bulgaria. If we look at the period you ask me about from the accession 2007 to 2016, let's do this as a dividing strip, then the programming period is over, 180 projects worth 1 billion have been implemented in Northern Bulgaria. 300 million.. a little over 1 billion. 300 million. So the investment in Northern Bulgaria can also be said that it is not small - 180 projects - 1 billion. 300 million. The most important of them, I would say, are under the Operational Programme "Regional Development"... about 50% of the resource........................................................................................... So from the general budget that we had of over 500 million. BGN, about half of them are invested in Northern Bulgaria. So here is also a sought attempt to balance the North and the South, if I may say so. On the cross-border cooperation programmes we have implemented three projects with a total value of about 20 million and under the Operational Programme "Transport" outside the highways I mentioned, in Northern Bulgaria three projects have been implemented. The tour of Montana, the tour of Vratsa and the tour of Gabrovo, which are an investment, with its European part representing about 90 million and adding European funding, is also a serious resource. We have a small investment in the roads in Northern Bulgaria under the Programme "Transit Roads 5" co-financed by the European Investment Bank. There the investment in roads in Northern Bulgaria is worth more than 340 million, with over 813 kilometers of roads in Northern Bulgaria as main directions Shumen And under the New Construction Program we realized with an investment of over 100 million the completion of the section of the highway of Hemus. The whole section of Shumen in Shoumen is 12 kilometers away. The road node of Belokopitovo is also an investment of over 100 million. I do not mention here, of course, the number of investments being made in the current renovation. But, again, the fact is that the imbalance exists and that is why I can confirm our not only intention and will, it is already visible in the adopted decrees of the Council of Ministers, from now on 2016 and forward by 2020 the main focus of investments to be Northern Bulgaria in several key directions. First with regard to the Programme "Regions in growth" which we have with European funding for the period 2014 - 2020. 15 funding projects have already been approved, 12 of which are precisely in Northern Bulgaria. So this is precisely the focus of the projects, which were primarily provided for rehabilitation with European funding. The total value of the budget that we have for the entire programming period of the "Regions in growth" is 380 million, so I hope that at least half of it will be invested in Northern Bulgaria and 12 projects for Northern Bulgaria, such as Varna, Dobrich, Kardam, Razgrad, Kubrat, Tutrakan, Pleven, Lovech, Troyan, Kurnare, Petrohan Pass projects that are already included for funding, as well as other projects....................................................... These are all projects that have been approved for funding under the Programme. As I said, we are finishing the Programme "Transit Roads" with co-financing from the European Investment Bank, finishing 12 sites this year in Northern Bulgaria. Their value is over 66 million as an investment, so these are also important road directions. And the most important thing is the decrees of the Council of Ministers. As you know, since the beginning of the year several regulations have been adopted for targeted road financing, their total value is 150 million, of which 120 million are directly targeted funding from the budget for roads in Northern Bulgaria with a special focus on Northwestern Bulgaria, the direction not only through Dimovo "Vidin," as well as the roads in Vidin and Vratsa as targeted financing of the repairs and viaducts of highways "Hemus" which are in emergency and critical condition, as well as road repairs in the North Central Region and in the Razgrad region and Isperih also district and region with third-class roads in unsatisfactory condition. I hope that with this targeted investment of 120 million in the budget, about 250 kilometers of roads in Northern Bulgaria can be repaired. This is a significant contribution, I would say, of course, relative to the needs is insufficient, but this is one step in this long-term program of investment and will each year to continue our efforts precisely in improving the state of the roads in Northern Bulgaria. With regard to the second question, perhaps even the third, a few words about the highway. But to go further to the highway, to say a few words about Struma Motorway. Operational Programme "Transport 2014" "2020" has a general budget for absolutely all road projects that we would like to finance at least 670 million. EUR, this is European and national co-financing, which we have for the entire programming period under the Operational Programme. That's not enough. You remember, in the previous programming period, there was a European funding of almost 2 billion. lv. Unfortunately, Europe no longer spends money on roads and basic infrastructure, and the reduction is clearly drastic at almost 50%. The budget available is the only thing we can complete is the construction of the Struma Highway. We can't help but finish it because it is a commitment, it is a European corridor. Its construction was started in the previous programming period and we are obliged to complete the investment of this motorway. What we're doing, you know, we have an elected contractor for the first precinct, this is the lottery from Blagoevgrad to Krupnik, as well as the last stretch from Kresna to Sandanski, we are currently in an alienation procedure, and I hope that in the coming weeks and months we will be able to actually start construction. The value of these two lots is about 730 million, so the investment that we are going to make there is significant. The most important effort at the moment is aimed at the toughest, most complex and most critical section of the Kresna Gorge. Because the initially chosen one in 2008, but to date analyzed as an ineligible and risky tunnel, it costs 1 billion and would be built seven years, and we don't have that much. We have about 350 million. euros with which we can build the precinct, and we are looking for the best draft solution. We have an idea project. At the moment, in the framework of the EIA procedure, an environmental impact assessment, another four alternatives are being analysed, outside the eight initially analysed for going through the gorge, in search of the best project solution to make the most of the existing path with minimal intervention and risk to nature, which we must undoubtedly protect, but also our human life is even more valuable. We need to find this project solution, hopefully by the end of the year, and if we get support from the European Commission and approval of the EIA and we choose a maximum optimal option both from a financial and technical point of view, this is what we want, and then we will have a real idea of how much money could be saved from this direction. With regard to the highway, it remains our undisputed priority. For it, European funding cannot be obtained. Apart from the lack of funds, except the reduced financial resources for this motorway anyway, the European Commission cannot support us, as I say again, the resource is limited. The efforts will be from the budget. If we must in the future, at the expense of the future increased incomes from toltaxi, we can invest in the completion of this motorway and in the other sections of which you mention: both Ruse "Turnovo," and Vidin "Sofia," as we must note that for these sections the necessary financial resource is huge. The Ruse direction is 110 km, its estimated value is 1 billion. 100 million. The Vidin management Sofia is about 105 km, its estimated value is about 1 billion. $100 million. $ 1 billion. 200 million. Only for these two directions around 2.5 billion are needed by adding 2 billion for the highway. "Hemus" highway, this is almost a 5-billion-dollar investment only for these three undoubtedly important, key roads and transit corridors that need to be built. That is why we will also rely on the revenue from toltaxi, and already on the revenue from the budget, along with the increase and introduction of this mixed tol system. What do we do about the highway of Hemus in particular? We're redesigning the precinct, and for the first 10 kilometers we have to announce the auction, hopefully in June. As we still have an appeal, which we are waiting for the Supreme Administrative Court's decision on and will announce the tender procedure for the construction of the first kilometers from Jablanica to Boaz in June, and for all other sections of the highway, we will announce a procedure for selecting designers for a technical project with options, namely to make and approach Tarnovo, to make a choice of new routes so that we can avoid tunnel construction, which would lead to a drastic reduction in the value of the investment. Only if we can reduce the three tunnels, that's at least 150 million down from the indicative value. In reducing the project value for 120 kilometers, which means driving at 140 km, I want to specify, but remains a highway with the gauge G-29 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u150	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Veselinov, first let's run out of the questioning procedure. You have the floor for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u151	Dear Minister, I have one specific and one common question. This is about the Ruse road, which many in our region call the Death Road, because there has been a car accident there literally every week with victims or a severe car accident with injured people, 500 people are within the last three years, if memory serves me right. Does the Ministry foresee repair of the existing route, which was last repaired in 1999? It is in terrible technical condition and it itself is a prerequisite for this risk of road accidents. At the same time, speaking of the roads, for example in Northeastern Bulgaria, they are in the same tragic situation as those in Northwestern Bulgaria. I am, of course, familiar with the decrees of the Council of Ministers, but I think that their scope should be extended, because, for example, at the moment, the main movement in the Ruse direction Varna, including international traffic, heavy cars and so on, is aimed at a second-class road Ruse That's my question. It is also related to the main question that you have not answered? Do you think a compensation mechanism is necessary to align these historically accumulated disproportions between the North and the South over the past decade?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u152	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Minister Pavlova, first of all let's finish the questioning.. You have 3 minutes to answer the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u153	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vesselinoff, I'll start backwards. I think I clearly and categorically stated yes, of course, that targeted efforts are needed. That is why, when we developed and adopted the Strategy for the Development of the Road Sector at the Council of Ministers, in its update, we have highlighted the need for priority road directions to be completed. So we have this vision and it is part of the Strategy by 2025. "Which road directions must be constructed. There are also prioritized highways of Hemus, and Ruse of Tarnovo, and Sofia of Vidin, as a direction, and Sofia of Kalotina, along with the tunnel under the tunnel of Shipka. Targeted programme. Yes, there must be one and we have proposed such a. It is called.. European transit corridors................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Its value is 5 billion, so for such a programme very difficult at the same time we could direct funding. We therefore prioritize the projects and their implementation in stages. With this in mind, apart from the highway, which remains a priority and for which I definitely hope to start the procedure from June, with regard to the Ruse section, the project is ready and it is currently subject to a procedure for discussion, presentation, you know, for approval of these directions and settlements that it is going through as part of the overall environmental impact assessment. This assessment must be made by the end of the year, after which the section will probably be divided into four lots, into four sections. One of them will be Ruse's tour through the industrial zone, a southwestern tour, from there downhill, already the section from Ruse to Byala, a tour of Byala, hence the connection of Byala in Veliko Tarnovo, the connection with the future highway "Hemus" with a common road node. This is our most critical point because for the two design teams, those who are redesigning the approach to Tarnovo and those who are designing the section of Ruse "Turnovo," we need to find the best solution for this approach and the road node and how to combine the two routes. It is now the last stretch to make the connection with Heinboise, the Passage of the Republic, so that this transit destination can be taken out. Of course, like I said, it's a huge investment. We have arranged the investment as a priority for these subdivisions, the first is precisely the tour of Byala. Whatever we do, indeed White's approach, as well as several more critical directions, including the Kresna Gorge, are the most critical areas with daily traffic accidents and the most number of victims of these road sections. Therefore, the tour of Byala and the tour of Dimovo and Kresna Gorge, as the most critical, are the most prioritized in these directions I have told you about. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] With regard to transit traffic, the answer is................................................................................................ Wherever the tours are used, when the road direction is already restored, the tours are provided for repairing those that are compromised due to the use of the lower class road as a bypass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u154	Thank you, dear Minister. You have a say in asking, Mr. Vesselinoff. After that, Mr. Ivanov wrote a reply on the questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u155	With your permission, Mr. Chairman, I will merge my two procedures without taking advantage of the total amount of time. In fact, I have received an answer that I expected to receive, as it is clear to all of us this disproportion. In fact, from what the Minister said, the difference in investments from the beginning of 2007 to 2015 between the North and the South is more than 4 billion. lv. Adding the forthcoming disproportion only under the Operational Programme "Transport" of 2 billion, there is a disproportion of 6 billion, which should be compensated, so you have calculated, in a nutshell, that these projects for Northern Bulgaria would somehow restore justice. For me, this will continue to be a cause and we will continue to insist that there is similar justice in spending public resources, as they are, after all, of all citizens, both north and south of the Balkan, they must be able to take advantage of them. Regarding the remaining fair distribution, which you say you are doing, of course, this is good, but until we find a mechanism where these 5 billion are found and repair the great injustice, obviously all of us in the north of the Balkan will not be satisfied, because this means lower chances of economic growth, for the realization of people, respectively, and a lower standard of living. So in my face, of course, and in the face of our parliamentary group, you will have support for a policy that erases regional inequalities. We hope this will be a sustainable policy for the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u156	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for a line on your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. He doesn't surprise me. These are generally the answers that you give sustainablely especially for the route Yablanitsa, the link Ruse "Svilengrad." What I didn't really fully understand, and I'm asking in your duplicate for clarification, is this. There is a tendering procedure for the implementation of the Yablanitsa section. She's currently being appealed. The expectation is that there will be a solution by June. Will the construction of this precinct eventually begin from there? That's my supplementary question. My second question is how far is the design of the route that will pass around Veliko Tarnovo? Most likely this complex system of connections around the village of Polykraishte will connect with the road Ruse Is there currently the launch of a redesign procedure there so that the highway passes not 30 km away from Veliko Tarnovo? If there is, can you commit to a specific deadline when this redesign will end? After that, a possible and specific period of time when can the tendering procedure itself begin? It is sad that this highway is not part of a European corridor and is not made by European funds. However, I would like to remind you that Northern Bulgaria is also in Europe. I would not say that this is not a European project in the broader socio-economic sense of the word. I hope that through your lobby we can find the means to build this highway out of the Republic's budget. In our face, you have supporters of the MPs from the Tarnovo region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Minister Pavlova, you have four minutes for a common duplicate on both issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u159	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, on the first question, there was an terminated public procurement on the highway. There were three complaints about the termination decision. All three complaints were ruled in favour of the State that the public procurement was terminated legally and legally. The ruling in favour of the State was at the level of the Commission for Protection of Competition. One of the three appeal parties then appealed the ruling of the KPC in the Supreme Administrative Court. The case was held a few days ago. We are waiting for this, I said with conviction, because YOU have a one-month deadline to come up with its decision, so I hope that by mid-June at the latest it will come up with its final decision on the complaint. This will give us the opportunity to announce the tender procedure again. As I mentioned, the precinct used to be in two lots. We've divided it into more lotts for several reasons. One reason is that the first precinct is indisputable because there are no tunnels and viaducts. The reduction in project speed there was much easier to realistically. It's done and ready from 140 is reduced to 120 km project speed, highway gauge G-29. It is fully ready, so immediately we have the opportunity to move directly to the choice of contractor for this section, as early as June. For the other sections of Veliko Tarnovo, excluding the move to Veliko Tarnovo, we will also announce in June a procedure for selecting a designer for a technical project plus options to find the best bypass solution for the three tunnels to be surrounded so that we can save resources, besides reducing the design speed. We're not reducing the position of the highway, but we're reducing the banquets and the distance between the sails. Most importantly, we reduce the height of the facilities, not the width, and we remove the tunnels. I hope that we can also do this by the end of June. With regard to the Veliko Tarnovo section, this is an older commitment. We're also in a redesign procedure for selecting a team to do the redesigning, but that doesn't complete everything. You know that at the moment when we do the overall redesign, including to Belokopitovo, of all these 250 km, of which only 10.12 km are ready, hence for the remaining kilometers the procedure is as follows: new plots, their announcement, EIA procedure and a change of decision, for a large part of them we have a positive EIA solution, but now we will need a new one, an EIA announcement, a procedure that lasts between 6 and 9 months, I hope to be successful, including with your help, that we can implement it in order to move towards the most severe stage of procedural point of view under the State Property Act, namely the alienation of land for these kilometers from the route. Then the builder will be able to really start his work. Once we are done with the design and it is validated, we have established parcel plans and EIA, while choosing a contractor, it is good to do alienations, because this will enable us to parallelize the processes. Specific deadlines at this stage cannot be said, but I hope that if we select the designers and they do their work for about a year, next year we will have the opportunity to take concrete action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u160	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to Minister Pavlova is from the MPs Dragomir Velkov Stoynev and Georgi Janchev Gokov regarding the Republic road II-55 Debetetz Svilengrad, the district of Svilengrad. Gurkovo village of Panicherevo. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u161	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Minister, before I ask you my question, I will make an important clarification. In a previous question of my repair of the Galabovo road, you took the liberty of hinting at some unhealthy interests on my part towards the repair of this road, so I now clearly declare: I have no interest in repairing the Galabovo road; I have no interest in repairing Gurkovo Panicherevo; I have no interest in repairing any road in Bulgaria and around the world! The only interests I pursue with my questions to you are the interests of the people in my electoral district who come to my receptions and put the problems of the broken road infrastructure in the areas where they live and work. Now I'm talking about it. You are aware of the extremely heavy, if I may say so emergency state of the road II-55 Debetetz,.................................Nova Zagora........Svilengrad, especially within the borders of the town of Gurkovo and the village of Panicherevo, as well as between the two settlements, which is the result and result of the movement of heavy vehicles on the Republican road network in this region. The condition of the road is indeed an emergency. The existing pavement and road base below it are not sized for today's heavy trucks and the road is dangerous for passing vehicles. Tracks are formed all along the road, large holes are opened, which are a prerequisite for the occurrence of heavy road accidents. The population expresses great dissatisfaction with the inactivity of the institutions. I'll take the liberty of saying there's already a victim of this precinct on the road, a child. I don't want to tie this to the current state of the road, but maybe it's part of the reason. I can go on and on to prove to you the seriousness of the problem, but I don't have time and I don't think it's necessary. The question to you is: when will be the necessary repair of road II-55 Debetetz "Gurkovo" "Nova Zagora" Svilengrad, within the borders of the town of Gurkovo and the village of Panicherevo, as well as between the two settlements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u162	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u163	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, undoubtedly the road direction of road II-55 Veliko Tarnovo "Gurkovo through the Pass of the Republic of Hainboaz" is a serious transit direction through which many heavy goods vehicles pass. Overall, the state of the road outside the sections you mentioned is satisfactory except for these two divisions. Here we should recall that in the section through Gurkovo, which is about a kilometer and a half, and through the village of Panicherevo, which is about a kilometer and 700 meters, yes, there is no doubt the condition of the road is very bad. It is bad because in 2009 the section was renovated through Gurkovo and the pavement was replaced by asphalt concrete. However, because of the poor performance, I suppose you know, then there is a implemented by the municipality Water Cycle Project, for a water cycle, which is executed poorly, without a good foundation, i.e. without a good sealing of the ground masses, which actually brings to this heavy trucks, passing through this paved asphalt concrete, to form these tracks. It is a duty for the saga and negotiations between the Road Agency, including the municipality, to refer to the company that implemented it, within the framework of the guarantee to rebut the compromised sections, but this, unfortunately, is not a fact. The analysis shows that for the repair of these two critical sections, we need about 3 million. lv. And what we're going to rely on is targeted funding so that they can be restored. What we have planned for this year is, as up to now, funds on the line of ongoing repairs within the API budget, but they are insufficient so that we can solve the whole and lasting problem. So for the time being, we're doing it under ongoing repairs and what we're planning, if we don't get it targeted this year, from next year, at the expense of tax revenue, we can also predict this section and, above all, these two settlements for repairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u164	Thank you. Mr. Gokov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I would like to say that I am satisfied with the answer, but I cannot do it because I am not, and even more dissatisfied with me will be the people of the municipality of Gurkovo, because for them the only answer that would satisfy them is: from tomorrow the repair begins. I will allow myself once again to remind you of your words, spoken as a candidate for a Member of Parliament from the twenty-seventh district of Stara Zagora, when you also said, by the way, I fully join your words, said back then: It is important that smaller settlements are stimulated to reduce migration from villages to major cities. There is only one way to think about funding for public works, health care, schools and jobs. " - I really join those words. If we are looking for meaning in what you have promised, and I think it is normal to promise, you should be aware that for the inhabitants of the municipality of Gurkovo, the decorating begins with the repair of their road, in which they break their cars and their lives are in danger to some extent, moving along this road that does not meet the criteria for their journey in the 21st century. These may be minor problems for the Ministry, but for these people are extremely important because they get on the highways you build, not it, but on these roads every day, even several times a day they travel to work and break their cars. The repairs are urgent, Madam Secretary. I understand from your answer that this year there is almost no hope to be repaired, perhaps next year it will not happen again, but there is a critical situation and it is only a matter of time for people to rise up in rebellion. Maybe mutiny is a strong word, but it is. An apology with the lack of money is no longer working. Especially against the backdrop of praises for increased revenue collection, against the background of the borrowed loans and against the background of everything that is happening in the country, this justification is not working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u166	Thank you. Madam Minister, would you like a duplicate? No. The next question is from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov Raynov on a flooded road section and limiting the movement along road II-81 Montana at the bridge of the river Burzia in the region of the village of Borovtsi. Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u167	Thank you, dear Chairman. Dear Minister, my question dates back to March 16th and is very short and very simple against the background of the other questions that colleagues have asked, and it is as follows: what are the reasons why the reconstruction of the bridge Secondly, what action will you take to ensure that the road Montana "Berkovitsa" will not be flooded again, given the upcoming period of snowmelting and the possibility of the River Bursia overflowing again? The question was about March 13th, so it was snow melting, and I am adding to this date the rains that are pouring out all the time, even at this time. Needless to declare that I have an interest in the answer to that question. After all, I represent the citizens of Berkovitsa. Needless to say, how important this is, because this is the only road that connects Berkovica to Montana, on which they travel on a daily basis both working in both settlements and ambulances with patients.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u168	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u169	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Raynov, yes, it is important this road station. It is part of a project funded under the Programme "Transit Roads 5" with one investment of 40 million. BGN, with which we repair the pass Petrohan Two sub-projects were added to this project. One, you know, is Berkovitsa's tour to get the heavy traffic out of there. And the two bridges were added to the middle bridge and the Yoncho Inn Bridge to be built as their condition was extremely bad and could not take over heavy goods vehicles. The deadline for the implementation of this site, without the added sites, shall be 13 months from the date of issue of a construction permit. Unfortunately, the construction permit was only removed on 24 June 2015. It was to be issued by 2014, but there are a number of reasons why it was not issued. Therefore, the deadline for 28 February was the initial deadline planned for the granting of the permit for construction at an earlier stage. That is why the deadline is extended and is not 28 February, but 13 months from 24 June 2015. But more importantly, what is done. What has established the on-the-spot traffic agency's verification that both bridge facilities are currently completed. On these remains to be installed the dilation joints and the finishing works on the facilities to be done and finished, such as the time period which the builder has undertaken as a commitment, by the end of June, if there are no rains earlier. These two bridge facilities and the completion works on the site will be completed. What you said back then about melting, now about rains, yes, there was a problem with built time browses during construction. Unfortunately, in this direction of the river Fastia, you know, there are two hydropower plants. The discharge of the water from these two hydropowers in heavy rains lately has contributed to an increase in the level of the river and the transmission of these fords. What we have done further has been assigned to the builder to make additional openings and to deepen the riverbed so that in the event of heavy rainfall, these situations do not occur. But, God forbid, if we have an increase in precipitation before the bridges are finally completed, as they have their good completion, we will be able to temporarily upload traffic there if there is a problem with the level of the river and if there is another leak of water from the ages, and, hopefully, the whole project will be successfully completed by the end of June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u170	Thank you, Madam Secretary. For a line, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, I quickly thought that since June 26 last year 13 months are July 26 this year. I can see that the deadline is extended, but, you know, once a week, at least twice I'm passing through there. Every week, the picture I see, and this is during working hours, is the stopped technique, ten people watching and smoking, two scratching, one holding the shovel. I have to admit, I find it hard to believe that things will happen on July 26th. And otherwise you know very well, 23 November last year, 13 March this year, several more times it is a ford across the river, the water comes. Far be it from me that it's the power plants that are to blame, you just have to work! This is not about what colleagues before me have said: secured projects, provided money. There's projects, there's money, there's everything, but someone won't do their job, and I think it's okay if the project completes two weeks earlier than the scheduled start-up. My request to you is a little stricter control in the implementation of these projects, in the name of the residents who to this day are annoyed by what is happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u172	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. Would you like a douche? No. The next question is from the National Representative Milen Vassilev Mihov on the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Project for a residential block with address: Veliko Tarnovo, 2 Dimitar Buynov Street. Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister! My question is asked in mid-March 2016 and may not be relevant, but I think there is something to be said about it. We are talking about the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Project of a residential block in Veliko Tarnovo on 2 Dimitar Buynov Street. The background of the application of those living in this block will miss it, it is in the written part of the issue, I will just point out that they are starting to work on this project as early as April 2013. They are preparing all the necessary documents, permits, research of the building for energy efficiency. At this stage, co-financing by residents is required. They provide the necessary funds and import them. In 2014 the conditions were changed, the money was returned to them and on 1 September 2015. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works elected the company PST GROUP. Sofia, to carry out the construction activities of the block in question, setting a deadline for implementation of 55 calendar days. On 23 September 2015 the municipality of Veliko Tarnovo issued a building permit and on 12 November 2015 the company "Krasi Business" Ltd. started construction activities of the block, the same being the sub-contractor of the company "PST GROUP" EAD. The initial plans provide for the construction activities of the bloc to continue until 25 December 2015, and according to the documentation the entire project is to be completed by 9 February 2016. At present, the site is not finished and, Madam Minister, I allow myself to ask you the following questions: when will the repairs of the bloc be completed? How is the quality of construction controlled? Why did the company that won the order, the company that has signed a contract with the company Krassi Business and the company that has won the order, have no experience in the implementation of this type of activities? How will you compensate the owners for the moral and material damage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u174	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Mihov, the project you are referring to, the building in Veliko Tarnovo on the street of Dimitar Buynosov Initially started with co-financing, but with the announcement of the National Programme we decided to provide 100%, co-financing from the state budget the renovation of these buildings. The programme, you know, was stopped in 2014 and we resumed it in 2015, so the selected contractor started its activities with the opening of the construction site only on 23 October 2015, with a deadline of 55 days, which was due to end in December. The builder was late in the performance of some of the works, and for some of his activities this delay was accepted as the placing of insulation and other types of activities were prohibited at temperatures below 5°C. This is the reason why the deadline was extended in the first months of 2016. I can say that we do have a poor performance of some of the activities performed by this performer on the one hand. We have, and we need to be objective, and incorrect implementation of some of the building owners, namely each of the building owners who applied for this project, has signed the investment project and the way the building will look and how it will be renovated. Once they have adopted this project, it includes certain activities: where there are glazed balconies, respectively replacement of windows on the glazed balcony and insulation of the balcony; where there is no, only painting and insulation of the balcony is made. However, after having signed and accepted the project, some of the owners, meanwhile, have glazed the balcony which has already been financed under the Programme, isolated and sanitized, and then asked for additional "something' to be included, which is unacceptable. This is about being clean and looking at things objectively. To date, I can say that the construction of the building is complete. We have activated, however, and have mastered the bank guarantee from this contractor, as we have a delay. We also have a poor performance of some of the activities, so we have acquired a bank guarantee of 183 thousand. BGN, with which we can also sanction the performer for his delay, and ensure that if there is any poor performance, it can be removed. What I am aware of is that we have an input request from the contractor for the award and structuring of the admission commission for the completion and adoption of the construction, and in the meantime he has to finish and remove two poor performances of a covered space and of a wall, if I am not mistaken. He must carry out this and the admission committee will, of course, examine and verify the activities carried out. You asked me who was in control. Control is under the Law of Structure of the Territory and our contract is entrusted to Oversight. If the Supervisory has not fulfilled its commitments or allowed the entity to have a sub-contractor, which does not have the right to have a contractor under contract, it will also be sanctioned in accordance with the Law on Construction in the Area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u176	Thank you. Mr. Mihov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u177	Madam Minister, I am almost satisfied with your answer, especially in its part, that you officially state that there is and are informed of a poor performance, which I am convinced with my eyes. And now the contractor has not yet completed certain activities related to the completion of some of the elements. During the renovation itself, as you mentioned, we have damage to the roof construction by the builders themselves, and I hope that upon completion of the project you will engage in serious control in order to protect the interests of both the owners and the state in the implementation of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u178	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Before I present you with the next question, I would like to inform you that according to art. 92, para. 7 of the Parliamentary Control Rules today will be extended by seven minutes. The next question is from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on the establishment of a sanitary zone around the dam. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u179	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question today is about setting up a sanitary zone around Ticha Dam. On 22 December 2015, an order was issued by the Minister of Environment and Water, which established a sanitary zone around Ticha Dam. During parliamentary control on 11 March 2016, the Minister of Environment and Water replied that, in respect of the fulfilment of the requirements of Regulation No 3, the water operator, in the case of Water and Water, entrusted the preparation of a draft sanitary zone to which he applied an application to the Minister of Environment and Water for the establishment of a sanitary zone around the Ticha Dam. The project annexed to the request of the Water and Water Community is accompanied by the re-appliance of the quantitative accounts for the construction of these areas, as well as the recognition and reimbursement of the so-called declared costs and costs by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. In relation to the above, please reply to the following: what is the source of the recovery of the so-called What is the amount of these funds and whose commitment is the construction of the necessary infrastructure in the surrounding settlements to prevent water pollution, and the answer to the question of whose expense these costs will be, is of particular importance, and who will recover the so-called Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u180	Minister Lilyana Pavlova has the opportunity to answer the question asked by Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u181	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ivanov, it is a very important issue concerning the establishment and approval of sanitary zones around all dams and all sources of drinking water. Before I answer specifically for the Ticha Dam, I can say that in most cases or almost in any case, with the exception of the Ticha Dam, where the water companies own the drinking dams, they already have separate sanitary zones. That question is solved. It was done by the water companies and the sanitary zones are separate. What's the problem with the Ticha Dam? There are several specific cases there to solve which we are still looking for the best solution. First, the Ticha dam is not owned by the water supply, in the sense of the company that manages it, for the reason that this dam was recently used for irrigation. Its owner is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and its owner is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. However, the dam is already used for drinking needs and is operated by the Water and Water. This is the reason under the Law of the Water and Water Transport Act Shumen, to assign the identification and outline of the sanitary zone. It's a big dam. The outlined sanitary zone includes a large size territory. A fence and other types of equipment must be built in this territory in the zones 1, 2 and 3. This also provides for the very high price to be invested in order for this sanitary zone to be implemented. The value of the sanitary zone is 18.9 million. lv. of which 4 million lv. are the mandatory events for the establishment of belts 1, 2 and 3. Why is the price so high? First of all, because we're talking about private property that needs to be alienated. The majority of this resource must be invested in this. After that, all accompanying activities related to belt identification activities 1, 2 and 3. From now on, we have to resolve in the best way the question of how to invest these funds. The Ticha dam is an exception because it costs a lot of money. For the other dams and water dams, we've solved this matter. If only the water company does so, it should include it in its business plan. This will affect the cost of water. Something we don't want to do. Even if the VK did, the price would pass the threshold of tolerance. We have a tolerance threshold we can't get out of. So even if he tried to make this investment, it would be up to the tolerability threshold as pricing. Therefore, we will look for opportunities and negotiate to be able to provide at least partially under the Water Association, through the municipalities in the region, through the district and the state to support this funding in order to find the best balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u182	The line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u183	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! You partially outlined the problem. The dam is owned by the water systems and is used by the water operator. That's where the problems with the exploitation of this dam come from. One clamp of water for irrigation is not only used by the citizens of Shumen municipality, but by several other municipalities: Veliki Preslav and Targovishte. The issue is extremely complex. We did not receive a clear answer on whose account these costs would be due, because the amount is extremely colossal. lv. Do your Ministry and the State make a general commitment to finding these funds as realised costs? The ten municipalities in Shumen region hardly have the capacity and the opportunity to remove such a amount from their budgets. They are municipalities that, for the most part, have obligations and could hardly cope with such a task. My wish was to hear from you the commitment of the state to enter into its functions and carry out the activities of building the sanitary security zone because the inclusion in the business plan of the water company of such activities will increase the high cost of water in Shumen, which does not correspond in any way to its quality. During most of the seasons of the year, especially during the autumn-winter season, when there are snowfalls and when the snow melts in the spring, the quality of the water is extremely disturbed. You know that so far there have been many protests regarding the activity of the water operator, quality and cost of water. The matter remains open. I am expressing not only my own, but also the concern of the inhabitants of three municipalities. What are we going to do from now on? In what way will it be acted? Let's hear some definite answer. We ask you to find a solution to this issue because it concerns not only the municipality of Shumen but two areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u184	A hole, Madam Secretary. You won't use it. Next is a question by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev concerning wine and tolls for vehicles for crossing the Republican road network. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, as little as you are in the Chamber I see five people! Dear Minister, it is good to see you, as my question is literally getting old for the time it comes to it. My question is about a statement by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for wine and tolls for cars, according to which they will be due 17 thousand kilometers from the common Republican road network of 19 thousand 728 kilometers. Your announced expected growth in revenue from wineries by nearly 60 million. lv. on an annual basis after raising their price, with the introduction of the new toll system, the amount is expected to be doubled or tripled to 120 million respectively. lv. Or 180 million. lv. Annually. In addition, tolls are introduced for heavy goods vehicles above 3,5 tonnes and a mixed payment model for crossing cars on the road. A public contract is expected to be announced for the selection of a contractor for software and hardware for the implementation of the new tol payment system when crossing Republican roads for cars over 3,5 tonnes. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: Is a new increase in the price of the wineries and tolls for vehicles to cross the Republican road network to reach the expected revenue growth? How will the mixed model system be determined to pay for the passage of cars on the road? What is the expected indicative value of the above-mentioned procurement for software development and hardware for the toll system? How is the introduction of tol fees for heavy goods cars expected to affect the final consumer price of goods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u186	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. For an answer, Minister Lilyana Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u187	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kadiev, with an amendment to the Roads Act last year in connection with an Infridgement procedure, because the possibility and the ways in which future operators of the Tol system are being treated have not yet been introduced in the Bulgarian legislation, within the framework of this legislative initiative the possibility was also provided for in the Roads Act, besides wine stickers to be introduced subsequently and tol system. All this is also as a result of analyses, actions, and road development strategy and the decision adopted by the Council of Ministers to develop a model for the introduction of a mixed type system to remain the wine system for cars, for light-duty vehicles up to 3.5 tonnes, but to be an electronic wine system. Over 3,5 tonnes of toll toll to be paid to implement and collect on the basis of a GPS based system to be built on the roads of the Republican road network. As a result, an interdepartmental working group has developed documentation, system and scope requirements, the content of this type of system in terms of both software and hardware. In April, we announced a tender procedure for selecting a contractor to implement this system in several stages. The total deadline for the implementation of the future selected contractor is 19 months, the indicative value of the contract is 200 million excluding VAT. This procurement is a little more specific so that we do not have to pay from the budget from now on, on the one hand, and, above all, to ensure that such a truly complex and specific system does not pay for it until it is operational and really functioning. Payment under this contract is provided for on the principle of deferred payment. First, the performer must develop the software, purchase and install the hardware, the frames and cameras that will monitor traffic, as well as the devices from which carriers will be able to buy boarding cards if they do not have an onboard device that takes account of the GPS distance travelled. Once this system has been implemented at the expense of the contractor and has become operational, we will start to collect revenue from the introduced system, only then on the principle of deferred payment to make the payment of this investment. Unfortunately, I can say that we have an appeal against the public procurement by a firm, which also concerns a special request for suspension of the procedure itself. This request has been rejected by the KPC and the examination of the action is to be carried out in substance. Currently, the procedure has been temporarily suspended, as the requirements of the law provide. What I can say is that after we have completed all the appeals and resumed the procedure, I hope that we will complete it, we will select a contractor and he will implement and implement the system in 19 months, which includes building a total of 420 frames with cameras - 320 - we have already built with European funding, so that really 100 are frames and cameras, plus 55 mobile groups to actually implement the control of the introduction of this system. The rates and charges for the different vehicles are not yet fixed. This is yet to come, again with the interdepartmental group, I hope, by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u188	The line, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Pavlova, you haven't answered two of the most important questions. When I listen to you, there will be another screaming coming. Last year you increased the price of the wine by 30 leva. Do you know how much motherhood increased in Bulgaria? From 35 leva. £37. With two leva per month, at the same time the wine jumped by 30 leva. [[Reply.]] I give it to you as a comparison to see what is the social policy of the government and what is the policy of collecting more revenue. My first question was were we expecting to raise the price of the wine again? We're talking about the cars' tarts. I didn't hear an answer and I would like a commitment from you will there be a new increase or not? My next question, which you answered, that you still could not answer, was what revenue do you expect from the new system? Because, notice, the new toll system for heavy goods vehicles will cover 17,000 kilometers from 19 728. These are 86% of Bulgaria's first class roads, second grade, third grade. The only ones left without a toll system are the fourth grade. If all these heavy goods vehicles in order to avoid the toll are stuck in the fourth grade, what will happen? I do not know another European country in which 86% of the roads are covered by tolls. Normal is in the order of 20%. I don't know what this task force is, who invented it, who invented it. I understand that you want to raise money, but is this the way, and what are the consequences of this thing? Indeed, people will try to escape it and will go to the rural roads in the fourth grade, heavy goods vehicles. That's what's gonna happen eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u190	A line, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u191	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman and dear Mr. Kadyev! First of all, there is no answer, because within one question you ask me four. If you ask me four separate questions and we have the time, I'd be happy to answer all four questions. I wrote you a letter and appealed within the framework of parliamentary control to ask this question in a few consecutive times and you will have a comprehensive answer. I can't answer four questions in two minutes. If I try specifically in the little time I have...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u192	You come every three months once. This question has been in the month of March.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u193	Madam President?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u194	Please, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u195	In the short time, I can say that the analysis shows that when introducing a tolling toll system for heavy goods vehicles, we can expect a double to triple increase in toll revenues for heavy goods vehicles over 3.5 tonnes, which will use Republican roads. Please, let's not stress people out. I appeal because it is not political, which is stressing people, misleading them that the introduced toll will bring the trucks to them. No, you won't! A ban on the use of the twenty thousand kilometers of municipal roads, plus these nearly 4,000 Republican roads, which will not be charged and will be free, not as now paid, means that 24 thousand kilometers of roads are not paid, and the vehicles will be regulated in such a way as to make the priority use of Republican paid roads as a means of transiting heavy goods traffic across the country. This is also the goal of the system.. to increase revenue and to upload heavy traffic on highways, first-class and second-class roads or where there are none, partly on third-class roads precisely so that we do not find ourselves in the situation we are talking about. I can tell you that from 20,000. Miles, 16,000. km are intended for toll charges. The rest is almost 4,000. kilometers to be free and from the point of view of light cars such as wine stickers or electronic winemaker, as well as other vehicles, but they will be prohibited from moving trucks. That's the idea of those 4,000 kilometers. They will be free of charge for light cars and they will be prohibited from moving heavy goods vehicles, as these are cross-country roads on which no standard heavy cargo and transit traffic is generated. That's all I can say. For pricing, as I told you, by the end of the year we will determine it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u196	There is a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov concerning a targeted investment programme in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha "Sakar," the border, mountain and semi-mountain regions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u197	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is related to the so-called "Support for the Northwest." I'll remind you of a few facts. In 2015, when a group of MPs tried to propose the budget to provide for the financing of a series of projects for the revival of the Northwest, it was answered and we accepted this response that they were logically not included in the budget because a special programme was to be developed in 2015 to be fully bound for support of the Northwest. After its adoption, these projects will be financed from the 2016 budget. In 2015, a specialized group of the Ministry of Regional Development started to prepare such a programme. Many discussions were held with mayors, regional governors, even MPs took part in its development and in November this programme was submitted to the Council of Ministers. Since then, the Council of Ministers has not accepted the programme or, more precisely, until I have submitted my question to you, Madam Minister. It so happened that in 2016 we did not foresee funding in the budget specifically for the implementation of this programme. Moreover, this programme so prepared and submitted to the Council of Ministers provides for a series of legislative changes to promote the development of the Northwestern region. My impression is that we are fatally behind with her reception. If this programme and the corresponding package of legislative changes do not enter into the National Assembly as soon as possible, we risk not being able to secure its funding in 2017 and thus one of the priorities of the government, which is stated in the Programme for Sustainable Development of Bulgaria 2014 - 2018 will be incomplete, and this is due to the citizens of the Northwestern region, of course, and by the Strandzha region of Sakar and the other mountain and semi-mountain regions. In this sense, my question is: what are you going to do to speed up the adoption of this programme and ensure its financial security for 2017 in order to really start its implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u198	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u199	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Lilkov, you know, our efforts during the past 2015 were undoubtedly to develop a program not only for the Northwestern, as you said, but the program includes actually three more sub-programmes for Northwestern Bulgaria, Rhodopes, Strandzha Sakar and semi-mountain, mountain and border regions. The programme was developed and coordinated through all relevant planning areas, through all the councils that confirmed it, including the Development Council, was established in February 2016, after which the programme was launched for interdepartmental coordination through all the ministries from which we received coordination. We are still awaiting the position of the Ministry of Finance, including the approval of the financial justification. That's why we can't bring her in for her final adoption of the Council of Ministers. Otherwise, what we will do after her approval and acceptance will be able and will have to do are two important things. From a procedural point of view, we have already developed the draft ticket with which municipalities can apply with their projects. The total amount of projects provided for in this programme by 2025 amounted to 565 million. BGN 240 million is for Northwestern Bulgaria; 132 million is for Rhodopes; 45 million is for Strandzha-Sakar, and 148 million is for mountain, semi-mountain and border regions, of course, distributed in the period until 2025 in one financial plan. So I will also rely on the support of you, the MPs, within the framework of the budgetary procedure and the approval of the Ministry's budget for next year to confirm the necessary funds by estimate, respectively for 2017 and the three-year budget framework for the Ministry, so that we can implement concrete projects. Until then, we have developed the project ticket. We will enable municipalities, regional governments or project promoters to submit their projects, to invest the time within the coming months in preparing these projects, their assembly, technical and any readiness, so that their implementation and funding, when approved, can begin almost immediately. I would like to reassure you that the proposed legislative changes do not concern the possibility of implementing these projects. They were rather complementary activities that could alleviate, encourage investment, so that one does not interfere and is not at the expense of the other. There are no binding legislative changes in the programme itself that would block its implementation once it has been validated and funding is secured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u200	The line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u201	Thank you, Madam President. I argue that legislative changes are needed due to the simple fact that tax and financial relief are provided for both businesses and citizens in these regions. Indeed, with regard to your part, as it is said, are not necessary, but in terms of overall policy are necessary. I also note to Mrs Tsacheva that the National Assembly will also have to deal with this issue, because these reliefs, which are provided for in the programme, must be legally secured. By the way, you say that the responsibility is currently in the Finance Ministry for Coordination. It is obvious that my next question will be addressed to the finance minister because I went up the ladder: I asked the Prime Minister, the answer was diverted to you; I asked the blitz control and Mr. Tomislav Donchev, who is the deputy prime minister, he could not answer me what the situation with this programme was. I have a feeling that we will be really fatally late if the Council of Ministers does not accept it in the shortest possible time and the parliamentary vacation does not go through approval if this is the procedure of the National Assembly, because it is also about serious finances. In conclusion, I would like to remind you of one more thing. On blitzcontrol, when Mr. Borisov was asked a question about this particular programme and about the measures for the Northwest that we are fatally late, he said from this tribune: I am ready to devote 150 million to support the Northwest. I really expect him to fulfill this promise and ask the finance minister to coordinate as quickly as possible, because clearly the money is there to launch this programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u202	A hole, Madam Secretary? You won't use it. Mr. Lilkov, as the MP, since you believe there is a need for a legislative initiative, I am waiting for one. You can implement it together with other colleagues. A question from the National Representative Atanas Zafirov concerning restrictions imposed by the Republic of Turkey on the participation of Bulgarian municipalities in the implementation of projects under the Programme "INTERREG" for cross-border cooperation Bulgaria - Turkey 2014 - 2020 We're listening, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, Bulgaria - Turkey cross-border co-operation programme 2014 - 2020 has a budget of nearly 30 million. EUR and approved by the European Commission in July 2015. The programme is co-financed by the European Union through the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance 2, as well as by both partner countries, Bulgaria and Turkey. Its eligible beneficiaries are institutions and organizations from three Bulgarian districts, namely Burgas, Yambol and Haskovo, as well as two provinces of the Republic of Turkey. The projects under the programme are implemented on the basis of partnership agreements between participants from both countries, the managing body of the programme is your ministry................................. the Bulgarian Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Last year it became known that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Turkey was forbidden for Turkish municipalities to participate in partner projects with a number of Bulgarian municipalities, including Burgas, Haskovo and Svilengrad. The reason for this ban is the recognition by the respective Bulgarian municipalities of the genocide against Armenians in the Ottoman Empire. The information about such a ban has been confirmed by the mayor of the town of Adrianople, as well as by yourself. The introduction of such restrictions represents a rough attempt to interfere with the Turkish state in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and, in particular, the freedom of local self-government. This shows, of course, a profound misunderstanding and failure to accept fundamental values of the European Union, including freedom of thought and expression. In his actions, the Turkish side grossly ignored the European Parliament's Resolution on Genocide over the Armenians at a time when Turkey claims to meet its EU membership criteria. The existence of such criteria, whether formally set out by the Turkish side or not, is in direct violation of the management rights of the pre-accession assistance instrument, insofar as it limits the possibility to participate with projects of eligible beneficiaries identified in the programme. Moreover, in this case the two largest municipalities involved in Bulgaria-Turkey cross-border cooperation are affected. The situation thus created on the Turkish side's fault puts at risk both the legality of the first call for proposals and projects implemented at the moment... [[the President signals that time has run out]] whose deadline was 16 March 2016 as well as the entire programme. In view of the above, please provide me with an answer to the following questions: 1. What actions were taken by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to remove the restrictions imposed by the Turkish country? 2. Is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria approved? 3. Has the European Commission been referred to at the moment, and what is its official position on the case? Is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works able, as managing body of the programme, to ensure that, given the illegal restrictions on the participation of eligible applicants and on subsequent audit by the European Commission, financial corrections will not be imposed on future grant agreements and, in the end, is there a risk, Madam Minister, the INTERREG Programme for cross-border cooperation Bulgaria-Turkey 2014 " 2020" to be suspended by the European Commission pending a solution to the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u204	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. For an answer, Minister Pavlova, who is willing, if here are the MPs who have questions, to extend the time so as to respond to the colleagues who are waiting. I don't mind, as long as there are MPs in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u205	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Zafirov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, the implementation of the Bulgaria Cross-border Cooperation Programme is an important programme, part of the 12 such programs, which the Ministry and Bulgaria is a beneficiary or managed. With regard to the Programme of Bulgaria, what I can say is that we do have, I would say, tensions in the relations and preparation for applications of projects between some municipalities. From the point of view of formal requirements, what I can assure you is that, at present, neither in diplomatic order through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor to me as Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and Head of this programme, there is no formal inquiry, prohibition or restriction on certain municipalities being beneficiaries of this programme because they have accepted the declarations in question condemning Armenian genocide. From a formal point of view, there is no such prohibition. The fact is, however, that the Monitoring Committee, which is the body of the Programme where we validate the application guidelines, the representatives of the Turkish partner body have tried to offer such a type of requirements, criteria for the non-appliance of candidates who have accepted declarations against the interests of another country. We strongly objected, refused and rejected this proposal, so that this type of requirements and criteria did not fall into the application criteria. We also informed the Foreign Ministry and asked in diplomatic order, even though they were not part of the programme, once again to pay attention to the Turkish country that it is unacceptable to restrict beneficiaries. To date, what I can say is that three municipalities have accepted this type of declaration from the Bulgarian side. These are Burgas, Haskovo and Svilengrad. These are municipalities that have difficulty preparing their projects to find a partner from a Turkish country when it is a representative of a state institution, as far as we are concerned, informally, also with an informal one, there is no official document with which they are advised not to partner with these three municipalities. On the other hand, since there are no formal restrictions....they are only oral and informal, the European Commission has also informed it. She participates with us at the committees, we have discussed this issue with her, but at this stage due to lack of formal restrictions, there is no reason to suspend the programme. The program had announced guidelines for applying. In the direction of application, whose deadline was 16 March, we have received 195 project proposals, so the interest in the programme is enormous. With the budget we have, we will be able to approve only 30 of them, so the interest is great. It is not limited the possibility to apply both from municipalities and from non-governmental organizations for this programme, but unfortunately the issue remains, albeit in informal order, for this informal ban on these three municipalities and they are indeed the three that have not submitted projects because they have not found partners to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u206	The line, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u207	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. You practically retold what I said and I didn't say anything different. I have asked you, and I was very hoping that you would not answer me clerically, but give me a little emotion and tell me how you would really protect the interests of those municipalities that you ended up with, whose interest is hurt. How, specifically? That's the answer I didn't hear. You have retold something that is known, which I have also put in my question. I also said it wasn't formal, but it's a fact. I can boldly conclude from your reply that your government is not able to protect the interests of the Bulgarian municipalities, but rather, as if it is willing to accept the impeccable whims of a regime which is increasingly large in the democratic world beginning to define as authoritarian and dictatorial. The other conclusion is that you have not put the issue firmly enough before the European Commission. It turns out that you cannot protect the interests of these municipalities, including municipalities governed by GERB, which is ultimately a function of your ministry. To ask you, the Prime Minister was only in Turkey a few days ago: was this question raised besides hugs and first-name talks? This issue is serious, this issue we will continue to raise, including in the European Parliament. The interests of people in these municipalities must be protected, and a country, when it allows itself in an absolutely unprecedented way to interfere in the internal affairs of a neighbouring country, must be given a dignified response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u208	A hole? You won't use it. There is a question from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov about the risk of bridge facility over the valley of the Ruseski Lom River near the town of Ruse.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u209	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! As Mrs. President said, it is about the Rainbow Bridge, one of the emblems of modern Moscow in Bulgaria. It was built about 60 years ago. Unfortunately, from that moment, to this day, it has not been undergoing major repairs. Such major repairs were planned and started within the framework of the Transit Roads 4. Unfortunately, in view of the financial situation of According to road specialists, the condition of the bridge is extremely problematic from the point of view that the facility is designed under some conditions that are not up to date, the construction at 8 tons of axle load is considered, and now the requirements are for 13 and a half tons. At the same time there are visible damage to the concrete structure, there are problems on the fugues as well, and overall the facility according to specialists is problematic. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following questions: has the Road Infrastructure Agency been conducting a recent investigation of the facility in question and are we guaranteeing its unattended operation? My second question is: do you also foresee when the major renovation of this bridge facility, which is extremely responsible, given that not just a first-class European road, but the main international traffic is currently passing along it and, accordingly, its removal would make it extremely difficult for transit traffic across the Republic of Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u210	Mrs. Pavlova, we are listening to your answer to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Veselinov! It's a long saga of the Doug Bridge in Ruse. Starting from 2006, when the Transit Roads project, within which the construction of this bridge is envisaged, the selected contractor is working to a certain point, but does not finish its work, and in June 2009, we have a report prepared that says that the repair cannot be carried out and accepted, as it has been completed incompletely, with significant deficiencies related to the drainage of the canvas and others which have been submitted within the meaning of the FIDIK contract concluded to the contractor. The selected contractor is a Holding Company " Roads" which, if you remember, was subsequently renamed into Holding "Source" which went bankrupt or rather was declared bankrupt, so not only did it not comply with the mandatory regulations issued by us to do the repair of this bridge, the company was liquidated and no longer appears in the Commercial Register and despite the commitments made to it, it just failed completely. What I can say is that we have outstanding liabilities to the company.. 2 million, but given its insolvency, that for the company was obviously not relevant. What's his condition now? His condition is satisfactory from the point of view of the passage. From the point of view of the requirements and analyses of the Institute of Roads and Bridges of the Agency, it requires serious activities, if we want to bring it into the conditions of the updated regulations for the design and construction of such equipment, including this facility, that the columns must be repaired, serious additional activities must be carried out. This bridge is monitored annually by the Institute of Roads and Bridges to API. We are expecting another annual report, which is being made by the end of May, which will once again give us a description of what the necessary activities are. According to preliminary estimates, they are similar to last year's and their value for realization is about 8 million. lv. A really serious investment if we want to bring it fully in line with our increased requirements under a regulation. That's the kind of resource we don't have right now. We will continue activities for the moment along the line of ongoing repair and maintenance of the bridge so that it can be able to be able to safely pass the serious traffic through it. I hope that in the coming years we will look for opportunities for its overall repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u212	The line, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u213	Dear Minister! What I can say as a comment from what I have heard is that indeed the specialists who have signaled us have been right, and obviously we need to find the means to repair this responsible facility. So when setting your Ministry's priorities for next year, I would be happy if the Doug Bridge was included and I myself, as the MP, would make a similar proposal in the formation of the budget, if you didn't see it coming.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u214	A hole? You won't use it. Next, a question of the MP Grozdan Karadzhov regarding the construction of Irakli Beach.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u215	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! My question to you is related to a report that was broadcast on the day of this question being made to you, showing amateur footage taken with an unmanned aircraft that shows construction on the dunes of Irakli Beach. Although then a few days later it became clear that this beach was not exactly the beach of Irakli, but a neighbor to it, however, what was impressed by these footage was that it was being built on the dunes and that sand was being plucked from the beach itself, as well as the growing plants on the dunes, in which we could not know, but there might have been such protected plant species. In addition, you know that in the Supplements to the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, the sea beach of Irakli, along with Coral and Byala Karadere, were found on the list of sea beaches for natural tourism and that in fact in the spirit of the Law it was on such beaches not to allow any construction. So I would like to ask you if, after this report, you as a minister were interested in whether the construction of the Irakli beach was legal or, if this is not the Iraqli beach on the neighboring beach, and on what grounds is construction allowed on part of the beach itself, and rather on the dunes? What action will you also take in relation to this case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u216	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u217	Mr. Karadjov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Not only am I interested in the report, we've been working on this case for several years now. I would like to point out first that on the territory of Irakli beach, which is located in the land of the village of Emona, the municipality of Nessebar, there are six properties for which there are data of the presence of dunes. For these six properties there are no approved PSUs and no procedures have been initiated either by authorisation or approval by one or for construction, which is reassuring that specifically for Irakli beach and dunes in it there is no risk of being built. At least to date, we don't have a record of the PSU or a building permit. However, that is not the case on the neighboring beach. It is also located in the same locality of the village of Emona, the locality of Klaviri, where it is close to the beach of Irakli. There's the river Vaya beach. On the Vaya River near the beach there is a local treatment plant which was put into operation in 2012 and which serves the holiday settlements that are located near the beach. For these two land properties located near the beach of the Vaya River, there was a change of purpose, namely agricultural land in 2006 and then in 2007 around the beach of the Vaya River was changed and is now for non-agricultural needs with the possibility of building. As a result, in 2011 RIEW "Burgas" agreed investment intentions for construction of holiday sites in the two properties located next to the beach. In 2011 and 2012 the mayor of Nessebar Municipality issued orders to amend the detailed planning plan and these two properties The authorities of the MRB and the DNC do not have powers and cannot refer to the verification of approval of such orders, as they are controlled only by judicial procedure and have entered into force after judicial review. Then again the municipality of Nessebar, the main architect of the municipality, on the basis of these accepted and entered into force PUPs for holiday village, there were granted building permits: in 2012 for five houses in one property in March, in May for nine more houses, reception, restaurant, spa center and pool, and subsequently in September 2012 there was a permit for a holiday village with 14 bungalows, three warehouses and pools. All these permits are issued in the name of two companies: They have entered into force under the law. However, following verification by the authorities of the RDNC, Burgas, it was found that the construction started with these building permits was in violation of the coordination issued and the EIA decision, as the number and size of the buildings being built on the territory of these holiday settlements were increased. There are orders issued by the RDNC Burgas for stopping these constructions in 2013. These orders are appealed by the owners of the two properties and the Administrative Court in Burgas has stated that the construction of these two holiday complexes should be resumed. Very interestingly, the position I do not interpret, I just want to read it: The Administrative Court in Burgas cancels the orders for the suspension of the construction works on the ground that although approved investment building permits suffer from vices, the same are not insignificant. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Similarly, we have yet another appeal against the other bans that we have imposed, since there is no time to say them, and again the Administrative Court in Burgas has issued and rejected our orders to stop the construction, so from now on we have no authority to refer to the actions. Only the municipality of Nessebar as a contracting entity and as an authority that has authorised this construction, if there is a possibility, a desire and intention, could take any action.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u218	The line, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, with great concern, somewhat and with satisfaction that the authorities under your leadership have acted precisely in the direction of protecting the beach, but with great concern I see that in law enforcement again, as people say, there is always some loophole with which to concrete the last remnants of the beach in Bulgaria. As far as this is about an absolutely similar case, do you think by your ministry or agencies that are under your authority to come up with an amendment to the Law, which clearly and precisely regulates these issues, so that it becomes clear to the judicial authorities that construction, which covers the beach area, is something that was seen on the report, how the dungs themselves are scooped out, is unacceptable, no matter what authority, by what order or through what legal loopholes it has managed to penetrate? I mean, do you intend to update the legislation so that this thing becomes clearer in the Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u220	A hole? You won't use it. There is a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev about a public invitation to supply a car for the needs of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u221	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, we will now talk about corruption at the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency. On 17 March 2016, a public tender was published through a public invitation with a subject of delivery, by purchase, of a new car for the needs of the Agency with a contracting entity Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre. The conditions set out are so set that they meet only one model of the car, which legally leads to the entry of only one single offer by an official importer of Skoda and the selected contractor for delivery of the car Skoda Superb with 5 doors worth 72 790 лв. This is not the only order through a public invitation from the Agency. On 20 November 2015, a similar procurement was awarded, carried out in the same way by means of a public invitation, subject to delivery, by purchase of a new car for the needs of the Agency. The exact same subject-matter as the current contract, with an estimated value of 79 200 BGN. with VAT. Once again, so detailed conditions have been put in place to refer to the choice of a particular model of car.Volvo SH60, which is why a single offer has been received from an official importer company and has therefore been purchased by the Agency. In this regard, please answer the following questions: First, what requires publication of a public invitation to a new car in March 2016, which is a luxury car, apparently for the Director of the Agency, after only 4 months before that an even more luxurious car was bought? Secondly, what is the need to publish two public contracts with close parameters in such a short period of time? Thirdly, why are such detailed criteria set out to eliminate other car importers and to target a specific vehicle? And the last question that I will add from my own personal name is that you can not even answer the last two questions, how long will you hold this Director of the Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u222	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u223	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kadiev, thank you for your question, and thank you for the signal you signaled me to check these procedures. First of all, to look from a general point of view at the announcement of procedures with a public invitation, as long as they meet the requirements for a public invitation is not prohibited, it is not unlawful. Thus, in terms of legality, the procedures as such have been carried out under the Public Procurement Act. And whether they are appropriate, whether they are correct, this is a question, and here you are right, I must agree with you, that is the reason, after I have given a check on your question and on your signal, to really ban the Cadastral Agency, as well as the other authorising officers, of course, and to change the order in which they, you know, as independent agencies and independent bodies which award public procurement under the Cadastral Act, have the opportunity and the order in which they award such types of contracts and awards. What I can say, of course, I have commissioned an examination, an additional examination and the conditions that you are quoting. I've also requested explanations from the director of the Cadastral Agency for the reasons why this was done. Of course, what I received in a fast and oral manner is a hurry, an urgent need for cars, an outdated car park and the need to renovate the car park. What I can answer your specific questions, this is what I received as an answer. The inspection is ongoing, I have a committee that will take action accordingly, the contracts are carried out, the cars are delivered, they are used by the Agency because you asked who used, used by the Agency services, one of which is also used by the Director of the Agency. So from now on, it is a matter of sanctions, including sanctions, and the Secretary-General of the Cadastral Agency, who has the responsibility and commitment to conduct, implement and control public procurement, the conclusion of contracts, the Director and the Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u224	The line, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u225	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Pavlova. I'm going to point you in the direction of a few things to show you why you need to fire this Director of the Agency. First of all, this agency doesn't need luxury cars. They don't drive sheikhs like they do forest farms. It's not just a Jeep, Volvo SH60 is a serious machine. See the estimated value of BGN 79 200. with VAT. Does that mean anything to you? $66,000. without VAT? This is the maximum threshold for public procurement by invitation. Public procurement by invitation shall not be eligible for appeal. That's why it's done this way so no one can appeal. This one, first. Secondly, such conditions have been made to win a particular company with one specific model. I received information about the winning model two days before the public procurement and published it on Facebook. You can subtract from my Facebook, see the date that is two days before the announcement of the winner for the Skoda Superb. Officials of the Agency told me that it was done on purpose for Skoda Superb and will win Skoda Superb, and I published it very deliberately so that there would be a time trail after that to know that two days before that I published it. So they're doing the public procurement at 66,000. BGN, at the maximum threshold. In 2015, when he won the first car, he won at a price of 37 BGN. below the maximum. The maximum is 79 200 BGN, a supplier appears and gives a price of 37 BGN. Down. Doesn't that smell like corruption to you? It smells like shit. More than that, say hello! The conditions made for a car, this car is sold almost to the maximum, everything is fined and four months later the same director announces a new contract, again for a luxury car that is not for employees. I don't know what to give you. It's so clear and obvious that I don't even see what there is to check out!? Now, the Secretary General was in a hurry, we didn't have time. That's not true! That's bullshit! Where were they in a hurry? Buy Volvo and Skoda? That's why they're in a hurry. Fire these people, get them out of there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u226	A hole, Madam Secretary? You won't use it. Next is a question by the MP Peter Hristov concerning a closed section of Republican road III "488, Sliven " Ichera.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u227	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Unfortunately, I have to ask the same question in a year. It is about why no measures are taken for the most direct route that connects the district town of Sliven with the municipality of Kotel and the settlements adjacent to the municipality and also a road that connects Sliven with the locality of Karandila, which is a main place for recreation of slivents and tourists from further settlements. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Sliven is a city in front of my eyes within the last 40 years has become one of the leading economic centers of Bulgaria in the center of prostitution, in the center of mutren associations, in a centre for export and drug trade. The city's going down. It is not true what has been piped recently that Plovdiv has the most Gypsies. Sliven is the city with the most Gypsies in Bulgaria compared to the entire population of the city, because a large part of the gypsies are not identified as such, but as Turks. It's very unpleasant for me to ask that question twice. I want you to tell me, as I have asked, how will the problem of the most direct link Sliven Kotel be solved? The bypass is currently 40 km. There are vans stopped that serve the settlements on the other side of the Balkan. Regardless of the value of the object, it must be brought into a operational condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u228	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u229	Thank you. Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Hristov, after the question you asked me, I can confirm that in the past months the Roads have conducted a public procurement procedure, announced in May last year, for the selection of a contractor to do research and design work to prepare a comprehensive project for the lasting solution of this decline of about 90 meters from the road section Sliven Ichera, at km 25th, which is with a depth of over 100 meters. It is indeed a very deep and very serious violation and compromising of the pavement. This project has already been drawn up, provided and is expected to be validated at a meeting of the Expert Council of the Road Agency as a project solution to strengthen the landslide and repair the road lane. The project includes a number of measures to strengthen the fallen section in depth over 100 m and its repair accordingly. The value is 2.7 million. lv. A very serious investment, albeit for such a small division, because it is highly compromised. I can assure you that we have placed these funds and they are available in the travel agency's budget. Once the project is validated and the choice of contractor will be made, the investment in the repair of the section itself will be possible. We realize how important he is. It took the Agency a while to do it, so you're right. I was critical of them, too. However, it is now important that they choose a performer as quickly as possible to make and repair this section with this very large investment - these 90 meters will cost us nearly 3 million. I agree with you that we need to fix this precinct as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u230	- What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u231	Madam Minister, I'm pleased with your answer. The only thing I can ask of you is that you insist. I'm also gonna wait two months, and then I'm gonna switch all the activity back on, because I know there's a lot of problems there. Everyone's complaining about the road falling apart. I thought the amount would be much higher, and I think that this money probably wouldn't be enough for you. Keep in mind that Sliven is going down like a city. He's dear to me because I'm from this area. My grandmother is from the village of Ichera on the other side of the interrupted road. So please insist and don't interrupt the work. I suppose you have a lot of tasks, but this is very important for one of our sinking and sinking cities, Sliven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u232	A hole? [[Calling Minister Lilyana Pavlova.]] You won't use it. And a final question from today's parliamentary control, issued by the MPs Dragomir Stoynev and Georgi Gokov about the need to rehabilitate the Republican Road III - 608, third-class road, part of the Republican Road Network of Bulgaria, passing entirely on the territory of Stara Zagora district. We are listening to the question, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u233	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Madam Minister, again a question of repairing the road and again I declare that I have no interest in who will make the way, and it just has to happen in some way. This is the third road, 608, part of the Republican road network of Bulgaria and goes through the territory of Stara Zagora district. Its overall length is 63.7 km. I assume you know of his extremely severe condition, especially in a section from kilometer 28 to kilometer 39. The holes or, rather, the craters are inaccessible and with such depth that even if you drive slowly, the front bumpers of the cars break and endanger the lives of the travelers. The vegetation around the road reduces the visibility. There are no markings or road signs. You should know all this because you have been repeatedly contacted by the mayors of the villages of Syniets, Sarnevets, Postovo, Malko Dryanovo, Naydenovo and Dolno Novo village, from the mayor of the municipality of Bratya Daskalovi, from the district governor of Stara Zagora, from the director of the district road management. They've all written to you. People have been writing since 2008, 2009 to all institutions, conducting correspondence because the road is really in an impossible state. From time to time they receive answers in which everyone generally agrees and understands the issue, but there is no solution to repair the same path. It needs at least a patching of the holes, trimming the vegetation and laying some asphalt, at least a minimum amount, but to make it possible to move on it. Madam Minister, my question is: do you foresee and when the necessary repairs will be carried out on Republican route III.608, third-class road, part of the Republican road network?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u234	For an answer, Minister Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u235	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gokov, yes, this is also one of the roads from the third-class Republican network, which is in unsatisfactory condition, especially in a stretch about 10 km from the direction of this road, which is in the worst condition. This is the section between Trovo and Unity. These 10 kilometers have really not been repaired in 25 years, and that's why they're in such a bad state. I can tell, and you're right, the holes are so deep that the patches don't work anymore. I've always said a patch on a patch opens the next, the next hole next door, and that's why patching isn't effective as repair work. In the framework of the budget we have, however, this is the maximum we can afford at the moment. From the current budget of the Road Agency, we will continue to invest, although for the moment only with partial patching, cleaning and cutting of bushes. The Roads Agency has commissioned and prepared a technical project for the major repair and rehabilitation of this area, as we are aware of its unsatisfactory state. It's made. The calculations show that, for this time and for the smaller sections to be further realised, more than 8 million are needed. lv. That's the reason why we can't commission the overall rehabilitation this year. As I answered the previous question, I hope that for the time being and for the end of the year our efforts and investments are for major rehabilitations in Northern Bulgaria, and as of next year, life and health, thanks to an increase in revenue, we will invest a little more in larger rehabilitations, at least large-scale repair and patching to have its effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u236	The line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u237	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. How can I say this? I'm getting into your situation because the road situation in the whole country is scary. However, I cannot say that I am satisfied with the answer, because I meet these people and see some despair in their eyes that they are forgotten by you, as a government, by us, as a National Assembly. There they pay their taxes, fees, wine stickers and wonder second or third quality people are that they do not take exemplary measures to repair their third-class road, which has not been repaired for more than 20 years. This time it is important, vital to the whole municipality, because for the inhabitants of these seven villages from the region it is their artery to the district town of Stara Zagora. There are also people who want to invest in some way there or buy houses in this deserted area, however strange that may be, but due to the poor condition of the road they are giving up. The bus transport to Stara Zagora will stop the only bus on the road to Stara Zagora. All companies that stock up on stores, mostly groceries and products, protest about the state of the road and it is only a matter of time before they give up this activity and even leave the people there without bread. People wholeheartedly pray that someone will pay attention to them and solve this problem. They're wondering about these government stammering reports on economic growth, about increased collection of government receivables, about these huge loans being taken, didn't they find little money to repair their infinitely bad path?! I understand, we heard about 328 million. BGN, if I'm not mistaken, for repairs to the third-class roads. People secretly hope some of that money will go to them. I don't know what else you're gonna say to me about that in the back. The question is: when will it be repaired this time? I hope strongly, as you said, that something will happen by the end of the year, at least with the precinct between the two villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-27.u238	A hole? You will not use it, Madam Secretary. With this, the questions to you about the current parliamentary control are exhausted. The next regular plenary session is next Wednesday, 1 June 2016, starting at 9.00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
