ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u1	I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, allow me to present to you the draft work programme of the National Assembly in the period 26 October 2016. In the project you have since yesterday, some shifts and changes have taken place on a decision by the Conference of Presidents, I will introduce you to the current: "1." Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. A joint draft, drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs, based on the laws adopted at the first vote on 21 October 2016, adopted on the same date; Nayden Zenogorski, Boris Yachev, Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Bajraktarov, 17 October 2016. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 1 August 2016. Adopted in first vote on 8 September 2016. 3. Project for a decision on changes in the composition of the Temporary Committee for the Verification of All Data, Facts and Circumstances for Decisions and Actions under the Project Importer "Krasimir Velchev," 25 October 2016 4. A bill ratifying the amended Agreement establishing the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 7 October 2016 5. Draft Law on the ratification of a Guarantee payable on the first request provided by the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria (garant), from 23 August 2016 in favour of the Creditant Führer Videraufbau (KfW) in connection with the Loan Treaty No 27691 amounting to EUR 100 000 000 concluded between KfW and the Bulgarian Development Bank on 16 August 2016. Importer 6. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importers supposed on 7 September 2016. We propose to be the first item for Thursday, 27 October 2016. 7. Projects for decisions amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The representatives of the National Assembly, 9 December 2014; Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, 13 March 2015; Valentin Nikolov and a group of MPs, 20 March 2015; Velizar Enchev, 7 April 2015; Volen Siderov, 8 April 2015; Velizar Enchev, 17 April 2015; Borislav Iglev, 20 November 2015; Velizar Enchev, 7 December 2015; Velizar Enchev, 19 April 2016; Valeri Simeonov, Krasimir Karakachanov and Volen Siderov, 21 September 2016; Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, 30 September 2016. We propose this to be point two for Thursday, 27 October 2016. 8. Report on the activities of the Commission on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for the period 20 December 2015. . 20 July 2016 Importer "The Commission for Disclosure of Documents and Announcement of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to the State Security and Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army, 19 July 2016. 9. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Road Transport Act. Importers of the Council of Ministers, 16 June 2016; Ivan Valkov and Stanislav Ivanov, 7 October 2016. We propose that this be the first point for Friday, 28 October 2016. 10. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 137 MPs: 114, against 7, abstention 16. Program accepted. By para. 3 of art. 50 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we have a proposal from the MPs Kornelia Ninova and Rumen Gechev, who propose on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party (BSP) as a point in the National Assembly's Programme for the period from 26 to 28 October 2016 to include the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, No 654-01-50 of 7 April 2016, with the contributors of the National Representative Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. Here you go, Professor. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In short, because we value time now. We are talking about lower VAT on children's foods and people with disabilities. This is a practice, colleagues of Europe, of France, Italy, Malta, Cyprus, Czech Republic, a number of countries where the tax rate is differentiated. Here the arguments from the first group are clear to you with the announcement of the title. Secondly, we are talking about the great demographic crisis in which Bulgaria has fallen, about the strong reduction of birth rates. It's an attempt to stimulate families who look after young children. The second group of changes concerns small and medium-sized companies. The problem is that large retail chains buy on deferred payment goods from Bulgarian suppliers. This deferred payment is for two, three or more months. At the same time, the retail chains use tax credit, draw VAT at the expense of the Bulgarian suppliers and use these funds to increase their turnover and profits. That is why we want, in case of deferred payments, buyers, i.e. large retail chains, to pay suppliers at least the amount of VAT, so that the tax credit is in favor of the Bulgarian small and medium-sized companies and not the large retail chains. That is, we have strong social and economic motives that are consistent with the practice of the European Union. Therefore, we ask you to support the changes.. will not take long, but will have a very big social and economic effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u3	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. We vote. They voted 131 MPs: 58, against 7, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Messages. Bills and draft decisions for the period 19 to 25 October 2016: On 19 October 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration was adopted. Importers - Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. The Committee on Legal Affairs is attached. On 20 October 2016, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code was adopted. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. The Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds are accompanying. On 21 October 2016, a Law supplementing the Law on Regional Development was adopted. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. On 21 October 2016, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act was adopted. Importers suppose Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. On 25 October 2016, the National Research Development Strategy was adopted. Importer of the Council of Ministers. She's about to be allocated to committees. Once again on 25 October 2016, a draft decision for a change in the composition of the Temporary Committee for the Verification of All Data, Facts and Circumstances for Decisions and Actions under the Project Importer "Krasimir Velchev."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u4	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u5	Yesterday, on 25 October 2016, he received and distributed to the Members of the National Assembly a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code adopted on the first vote on 6 October 2016. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. On 24 October 2016 in the National Assembly with IC. No 627-00-5 was requested by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov to give permission to provoke prosecution against the MP Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev. The same was done under No. 44 of 2014 of Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, file No. 3507 of 2010 of Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, for a committed crime of a general nature. 219, para. 4 in connection with para. 3 in connection with para. 2 of the Penal Code. By letter dated 24 October 2016, the Vice-President of the National Assembly Dimitar Glauchev informed the National Representative Delyan Dobrev of the request and the opportunity to meet him and the attached materials. By application dated 24 October 2016, the People's Representative Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev informed the Vice-President of the National Assembly that he agreed to arouse prosecution against him at the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. By letter the Vice-President of the National Assembly Dimitar Glavchev informed the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consent given by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev to arouse prosecution against him on the request, and a certified copy of the application was attached. On 24 October 2016, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria received an opinion on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention, No 602-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2016. The opinion was submitted by the Ombudsman as a national preventive mechanism and on the grounds of art. 19th para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman. The material is provided to the Committees on Legal Affairs and Religions and Human Rights and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 24 October 2016, the Ministry of Health at the National Assembly received an Annual Report on the state of health of citizens and the implementation of the National Health Strategy for 2015. The report was made available to the Committee on Health and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. People's representative Chavdar Georgiev has the floor for procedure. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to rearrange the points of the newly voted Programme by proposing that point one become point five and be the first point for tomorrow's sitting, Thursday, respectively, points two to five be renumbered and points one to four. The formal basis for this is, of course, art. 76, para. 1 of our Rules, which requires that there be a 24-hour period before the adoption of the relevant bill and the debates on it, the corresponding report which should be distributed to the Members of the National Assembly. Under this bill, we have no reason not to abide by this deadline because, firstly, it is a bill of utmost importance concerning elections. Making hasty laws in 12 and 10, not in 12 minus 5, as they say, since the election campaign is underway, there is no reason. And secondly, let the MPs have enough time to get acquainted with the proposed texts, as they hide the potential to confuse the electoral process significantly at least in the region of Mladost. Yesterday, at a rather turbulent meeting of the Commission, it became clear that there were created all material and organisational prerequisites for the elections to be held normally, in two different premises, and two adjacent rooms for the two types of elections, and now with this bill it is proposed that everything be reorganized again, mixed into one room, which will cause great chaos and call into question the outcome of these elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u7	You've caused the chaos!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u8	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u9	Make another procedural proposal. Therefore, I ask you, fellow Members, that we change the programme adopted in accordance with my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Chavdar Georgiev for a change in the layout of the points. It proposes the first point to become the fifth, the first for Thursday, respectively. They voted 131 MPs: 37 against 69, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Popov. Do you want a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! How can we ask the Bulgarian society to observe and comply with the law when we do not comply with our own rules? The Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly have the power of law. It explicitly states that if there is no explicit decision to change these Rules, this rule of 24 hours shall apply. I think it was on art. Art. 76 or art. 74 of our Rules. That's why I'm asking for a re-vote. I didn't get a chance to vote last time. Three consoles don't work on us. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm asking you to re-vote and follow the rules. Do not start with a false start these successive amendments to the Election Code in 12 and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u12	It's a re-vote. I didn't call the first time, but Art. 76 states that if the National Assembly does not decide otherwise, the time limit for the second vote of draft laws shall not apply and the National Assembly shall decide otherwise by adopting the Programme. Please re-vote. They voted 133 MPs: 35 against 76, abstention 22. The decision of the National Assembly not to comply with the 24-hour deadline is in place. We continue with the first item on the agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR DELEGATION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SELECTED CODEX - A General Project. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs on a joint bill. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the project, which we are now going to view as point one, is written that it enters immediately from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. In other words, there is no time limit for the public to get acquainted with these successive amendments. In this regard, I propose the debates and the vote on this point. 1 of today's agenda to be broadcast directly on BNT and BNR, so that the public may get acquainted with the amendments to the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u14	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines.]] Please order in the court! We are voting on the proposal made by MP Philip Popov. They voted 117 MPs: 33, against 57, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. Report for the second vote of the Legal Committee. It will be introduced to us by the President and MP Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On 17 October 2016, the Report on the General Draft of the bills adopted at the first vote of 21 October 2016 amending and supplementing the Election Code No. 654-01-19, submitted by Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev, Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Alexander Rumenov Nenkov, Georg Daniev Georgiev, Stanislav Stoyanov and Valentin Alexiev Nikolov on 17 October 2016; No. 654-01-123, submitted by Dimitar Andreev Delchev, Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev, Antonyev Trenchev, Borislav Lubenov Velov and Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski on 17 October 2016; and No. 654-01-124, imported by Nayden Marinov Zenogorski, Boris Jankov Yachev, Danilov Kirilov and Dimitrov Kirilov Kirirov, established on 17 October 2016, prepared on the basis of October 2016. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Name of the legal The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u16	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 119 MPs: 96, against 18, abstention 5. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u17	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal for Option I. Option II is withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev and Philip Popov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for Option I of this point. 1 and for t. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Option II of this paragraph. 1 and proposes the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 5 after the words "in one country' is added "not a member of the European Union.'
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u18	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Popov. People's representative Philip Popov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In Option II, t. 1 which has been adopted, I put a principle question and it is as follows: should the legislative limit and divide the Bulgarians living abroad, depending on where they live? Some live in Moscow, Doha, Istanbul, Washington or Vienna, say. My opinion is that it should not be legally limited to the access of every Bulgarian citizen to a sectary electoral commission in order to exercise his right to vote. Of course, in practice, all Bulgarians cannot have equal access to a sectary electoral commission, but it should not be legally differentiated and restricted. Secondly, I am pleased that the Commission has adopted this proposal of ours. Six down. What's it gonna take with her? By the decision of the Central Election Commission to set up, and note it, on the very election day, the possibility to place another N in number more than one electoral box, which means that it can both, and five, and ten electoral boxes. However, there remains the same membership of the sectary electoral commission; one room remains; one or two dark voting rooms remain! That is, the same members of the selection committee will have to exercise control over several N-number voting boxes, which will in no way speed up the voting process. Taking about one second to release the ballot into the electoral box does not affect the electoral process in general. This proposal aims to create chaos, not to have good control over the election process by the sectional committees and, naturally, to manipulate the outcome. This was done at the last moment by proposing to us in a gentle form to resolve the issue of voting abroad. That question has been asked several times. There was a presidential veto of your president, which you've overcome. When we repeated that you were making mistakes with these proposals, and about the sections abroad, no one heard us. You've overcome the veto, now less than two weeks before the respective elections, you're back at your starting position again, you're changing these rules at the last minute. This does not talk about good legislation at the very least. This speaks of the government's aspiration to create chaos in the upcoming elections and, naturally, manipulation of the outcome. We cannot in any way support all these proposals that you have so well proposed in this version of a united Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Todorova. The word has the popular representative Mariana Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The debate was essentially held on Friday, so there is not much more to add today. ABB continues to call for a common common and single criterion for all countries. This division is an unconstitutional norm outside the European Union and in the European Union. We are convinced that it is not sustainable and that in consultation with the Constitutional Court it will fall. At first glance, it sounds good to have a difference between the European Union and all the other countries, but what do we do with Switzerland, with Norway, with Britain when it leaves the European Union? We believe that another solution must be found. We've suggested 55 sections not to be too many. Arithmetic logic shows that this is a good option. We see that there are 11 more sections ready in Britain. We know that it will not be accepted, but because of the chronicles that will remain by the National Assembly, we are obliged to say that the decision that will be voted today is not good and needs to be sought another, better and sustainable solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u22	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people's representative Hamid Hamid Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Happy name day to you and to all the Mitkovs in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u24	Thank you, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u25	We will not support § 1 in the two proposed versions of the support and non-support by the Commission. We believe that this text is open and clearly unconstitutional and we will put our signatures before the future complaint to the Constitutional Court. With this text, colleagues, an unacceptable categorization of Bulgarian citizens is carried out. The first category of those living in the country; the second category of those living in the countries of the European Union and the third category of all others. For all of us are clear the motives of the importers of this text, although it is about the countries of the European Union and those outside of it. It is clear to all of us that this text is done only against the rights of Bulgarian citizens residing in the territory of the Republic of Turkey. You won't get our support. We will make sure that all Bulgarian citizens learn about your cases. Too bad for you guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u26	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kanev. People's representative Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will not share the view that limiting the number of sections outside the European Union is unconstitutional. I believe that in view of Bulgaria's membership in the European Union, the principle of free movement and the incorporation of the Lisbon Treaty into the Bulgarian Constitution similar...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u28	Stop saying such complicated words! Such complicated words are not for you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u29	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u30	...such regulation, i.e. the definition of a different regime for the creation of sections within the territory of the European Union and outside the territory of the European Union, is constitutionally permissible. Of course, this is not in our jurisdiction, but in the Constitutional Court. However, I think that it is politically extremely unreasonable, because what is the occasion at the last moment, to change the Election Code, when the time limits for establishing sections under the current law have already expired?! The occasion is something that I personally warned about from this tribune that there will be more than 35 sections in Britain, claimed by Bulgarian citizens. [[Noise and lines.]] The reason specifically for Britain is simple. Bulgarian citizens in the UK are currently very interested in Bulgarian politics. They have a law, especially great legitimate interests, which prejudge their desire to actively participate in Bulgarian politics, and it is because Bulgarian politics, including the role of the Bulgarian President during the Brexit negotiations, are very important. Bulgaria is an equal and not a small European country, and Bulgaria can seriously influence the Brexit negotiations. It could have been expected that there would be such great activity in Britain, and it is not accidental. So the reason we are currently having this conversation is that we underestimated or underestimated, to be precise, the activity of Bulgarian citizens in Britain. However, Britain will soon or not leave the European Union. When I put this question to fellow Members of the majority, they very sincerely replied: "Well, while Britain is leaving the European Union, we will change the Election Code 100 times more. I'm afraid that's true, but it's obviously legally unstable and politically incorrect. The problem with British sections will arise again if this restriction remains, and very soon. In this case, as I warned you about the British sections just over two months ago, I would like to warn about the sections in the United States: the activity of the Bulgarians to participate in the Bulgarian political life in the US will not decrease. It will increase, the process of recruiting applications for sections for these specific elections has shown it very clearly. Already in the next elections, which may be very soon, applications to create sections of the United States will be much more than 35. And then again we will have to open up the debate and again perhaps at the last moment we will accept some exceptions so that we do not push our fellow citizens, our compatriots who live on the other side of the ocean, from participating in the elections. And if in Britain it's an hour's journey and a few dozen pounds, in the United States it's a lot of hours on a plane and hundreds of dollars. So the problem is much more serious. Naturally, we all know that we are actually talking about Turkey. During the previous debate, I said that we do not have any data on the ruling political regime in Turkey to directly influence the vote of the Bulgarians with dual citizenship. At present, we have every reason to doubt that this is already valid, as Turkey is in a state of emergency and the democratic rights of all Turkish citizens, including those of dual citizenship and Bulgarian origin, Bulgarian exoduss, are suspended in the territory of the Turkish Republic. So here the decision lies not in the abstract norm of the Bulgarian law, but in the specific choice of the Bulgarian executive power whether elections are held in Turkey. This has nothing to do with the law, this has to do with the discretion of the executive, which has at the moment made one wrong decision. We must not involve him in the legislative work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Here you go, Mr. Popov. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Zablyanov, understand the order. Mr. Mestan, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kanev, you said that holding elections in a foreign country depends on the discussion of the executive power of Bulgaria. You know very well that our law has no extracurricularity, it has no action in foreign territory. And there will be elections, how many sections will be revealed, when they will reveal themselves and where they will reveal themselves is entirely within the competence of the foreign state and its government. Therefore, we, here in this Code, whatever we write, depends on the will of the other country, whether it will apply these norms or not; whether they will reveal sections or not reveal them. That's what you neglected to say in your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line, Mr. Jablyanov. [[Relations from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan.]] Mr. Mestan, I'll give you an opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kanev, I welcome your speech because, perhaps for the first time since the efforts to amend the Election Code started two weeks before the elections, there is no longer even that much, someone raised a more serious and deeper question: whether the number of sections abroad relates to the volume of the civil constitutional rights of the Bulgarian citizens, are we limiting them or not limiting them. I will repeat here the thesis, which I said before the first discussion that the number of sections has no bearing on the exercise of the rights of Bulgarian citizens abroad, provided conditions are created, i.e. Bulgarian legislation in this respect cannot be influenced by the number of citizens this year in the UK, next year in Portugal, or the movement of migrant flows, of Bulgarian gastarbyters in Europe. If this is the criterion by which we will form this policy, here we will not every month, but twice a year we will correct the number of sections and we will get to the dead end we are at right now. On that point, I fully agree. On the issue of the number of sections and voting abroad several times... [[Relations from the bottom of the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u35	Can I have some peace and quiet in the hall? Go ahead, Mr. Jablyanov, I'll give you 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u36	Mr. Kanev, I do not accept and I cannot explain my addiction to the Bulgarian citizens who are in the UK. It is perfectly normal, yes, perhaps because of some circumstances they are more politically active, but this can also not be an argument for the number of sections of the political activity of Bulgarian citizens in one country or another. A serious argument is what you said about the existence of an emergency or other situation in a country that does not allow the organisation of democratic elections, but there is a state of emergency at the moment in France, and it is going on every few months. [[Noise and lines. The Chairman gives a signal that the time has run out.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u37	Please graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u38	If we stick to these kinds of criteria, we won't find a solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u39	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u40	The issue is for a more serious and in-depth conversation, but not two weeks before the elections, what the Reformation bloc and colleagues from GERB did. This is insane. [[Noise and lines from the bottom of the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u41	Third line, the esteemed Mr. Mestan. I've given Mr. Jablyanov a little more time since he was interrupted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u42	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Kanev, your thesis that limiting the number of sections in the countries outside the European Union and dropping the restriction on the member states of the European Union is not unconstitutional, but it is politically inappropriate, it becomes down and dust at the moment when you think that with this Election Code the right of Bulgarian citizens to participate in elections becomes an obligation. You know that this obligation applies to all Bulgarian citizens?! If we, as legislator, oblige Bulgarian citizens, excuse me, these Bulgarian citizens who live abroad are Bulgarian citizens with a permanent address in Bulgaria. If they do not live abroad of their own free will, under duress, including political and economic coercion, political in historical terms, economic in today's dimensions, we must ensure that they can exercise their right to vote, because otherwise they will be deleted from the lists. That is why we have identified this restriction as an act of political expulsion from our homeland. And two, go back to the right. The idea of the Republic of Turkey as an arch enemy of Bulgaria is niche, occupied by the Patriotic Front and other extreme nationalists. It doesn't go to a right-wing politician to compete with the extreme nationalists in this niche. Finally: Turkey is too close. Go and see if there is any problem for any citizen to freely exercise his right to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u43	There, there!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u44	The other orders you to the patriots. It is not for a reason that you have the primary responsibility to attract them to the ruling coalition. Thank you. [[Relations from the bottom of the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u45	Thank you. A hole, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u46	Dear Mr. Popov, to you and part of Mr. Mestan's line, I will allow myself not to answer because they are issuing a ignorance of the Law we are discussing. I don't have time to lecture on this in three minutes. Regarding another part of Mr. Mestan's line, however, I am prepared to respond. Again: constitutional legal argument will not be argued. If one day we are constitutional judges, I think that for both of us the chance is minimal, this could happen. However, I do not accept the alignment of Mr Erdogan's regime with Bulgaria's traditional relations with the Republic of Turkey. I consider this a dangerous manipulation. I will always be a supporter of the good relations between Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey, of protecting the rights of the Bulgarian forced displaced citizens in Turkey, including their rights to participate in the Bulgarian political life, with respect for their resistance to Mr Erdogan's regime in recent years in Turkey, but irreconcilable to any form of violation of the democratic order, whether in neighbouring or in a further country. I believe that this is a mandatory biographical element of the definition of the Bulgarian right. It arises not as a reaction against the left, but against the dictatorship and must be against every dictatorship from here on out. Mr. Zablyanov, here I see two very principled differences in our positions. One is that you believe that the Constitution does not oblige us to ensure an unlimited vote in the European Union. We argue that Bulgaria, as an integral part of Europe, cannot, in view of the right to free movement, impose any restrictions there. We are Europe and the countries in Europe are not equal to the other countries around the world, as viewed by Sofia. There is therefore every reason to accept that the Bulgarian Constitution does not allow any restrictions on the territory of the European Union, but allows restrictions outside this territory! On the other issue, whether Bulgarian legislation should deal with the movement of Bulgarian citizens outside the borders of the country. The Bulgarian legislation should primarily address the protection of the Bulgarian national interest. In the current demographic situation, the unity of the Bulgarian nation within and outside the national territory is primary national interest, and yes, the Bulgarian legislation must at any moment comply with the movement of Bulgarian citizens and with the parameters of this national unity. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. To speak, the people representative Dimitar Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The dispute that is currently under way, the dispute about how many sections and where there should be abroad and which country would leave or enter the European Union, is pointless and meaningless in light of the fact that in a few years we should have an electronic vote already in place. You remember that there was a referendum on this issue and that the National Assembly decided. After all, we have all agreed to implement in the legislation texts that provide for the real introduction of the electronic vote. With him in every home, whether he is in Bulgaria or abroad, the voter will practically have a selective urn and will not have to travel a hundred, five hundred or a thousand kilometers to vote. Commenting on today's texts, however, we must clearly say that the proposal to fall the limit on the sections in the European Union is good and correct, because at the moment, for all countries outside Bulgaria there is a limit of 35 sections. Colleagues, the European Union is our community, our society. In the European Union, we travel without having to draw visas. This is not the situation with Russia, Turkey and all the other countries. The European Union is something rather special than all other countries, and it is normal for legislation to distinguish between Member States of the European Union, as we have proposed, and all other countries. After all, it has already made the difference with regard to the elections to the European Parliament, where the law at the moment, and has been saying for a long time that the elections to the European Parliament are taking place only in the territory of Member States of the European Union. Until now, no one was worried about this and claimed it was unconstitutional. Suddenly everyone started waving the map of unconstitutionality. There is another text that is being proposed and we are currently discussing, this is the text with regard to the two urns. I agree that the intention of colleagues from GERB to propose to have more than one urn in a section is well-meaning, but ultimately also from the debates in the Commission, and from those in society it becomes clear that such a solution can be abused much more than to solve the problem, because not one urn is the problem and it does not lead to queues in the sections. Next to the queues in the sections lead one dark room and the single list on which the voter must sign. That's where the real waste of time is. Whether there's one, two, three or five urns doesn't matter much. The ballot in the urn takes one second, but if there are two urns, then we can allow anything! We can assume that hop in the middle of election day suddenly comes another urn with unknown where voices came from. In order to avoid this, I suggest that we reject these texts, as we did to the Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Hamid. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Delchev, I do not know how many years you have not travelled to Turkey, but no one will ask you for a visa there! Long ago Turkey canceled the visas for Bulgarian citizens more than 12 years ago this thing happened! You must live in those days, Mr. Delchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u51	Mr. Ademov, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Delchev, I will ask you to read art. 10 of the Constitution, where the principle of direct, general and equal legislative law is proclaimed. If you understand the meaning of this text, you will stop practicing on the subject of constitutional texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Delchev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u54	Thank you. On Mr Hamid's first line, yes, if you go to Turkey for three months, you won't have to take out a visa, but if you go there for six months in a year?! Don't you see the difference between going to Belgium and going to Turkey? The difference is very obvious, and I think it makes no sense here to discuss what it means to be a member of the European Union and to have other diplomatic relations with neighbouring countries that are not members of the European Union. That's what I meant when I said the difference was obvious. Mr. Ademov, I understand your line, but I still want to stress the following: these texts do not restrict the rights of Bulgarians. They don't limit themselves! [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Any Bulgarian, no matter where he is, can vote if he wants to. The question is where are we talking about possibilities here? I say again: the electronic vote is the solution of both your problem and the problem of the Bulgarians in the United States and the problem of all Bulgarians. With the electronic vote we introduce equal unlimited opportunities of the Bulgarians to vote and participate in the democratic process, because this should ultimately be the goal of all of us, the MPs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u55	We're talking about this election now, aren't we?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I'm voting on it. 1 of option I not supported by the Commission. I put to the vote the text of the importer, option I, item I. 1 unsupported by the Commission. They voted 92 MPs: 3 against 68, abstention 21. Point one of option I not accepted, rejected. I'm voting on it. 2 of § 1 by importer, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: for 7, against 76, abstention 21. Point two of the importer is rejected. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote for option II of this paragraph. 1 in the version of the Commission report. Please vote § 1 in the version of the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 81, against 21, abstention 9. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted. Mr. Kirilov, come in for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to § 2 the proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and does not support it by t. 2, and it has the following text: "2." A new § 2 shall be created: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 297, para. 3 after the words "complaining candidates" the union is placed and the text is added and the vote is not supported by anyone under art. 279, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u58	Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you are. "The People's Representative Metodi Andreev gave a first request. METHODS ANDREEV (GERB): Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Although the Commission has not supported our proposal to create a new § 2, I believe that it is my principal duty as an importer to speak, because the question we are putting is deeply principled. If it is not voted now, there will come a time when this issue will again be put and it will probably then be voted on. In principle, the question of the possibility that was given in these elections in this Election Code to have a box "I do not support anyone" has also created a lot of confusion in the people's representation itself. This was, in my opinion, a slight play with people's feelings outside of this room, because this way of thinking. to create an opportunity explicitly in the ballot to point out that it does not support anyone was completely unnecessary. The one who didn't support anyone could have released the white ballot, and then there wouldn't have been a lot of these disputes that got heated here, as a result of this box in question. He's got it anyway. And from here on, unprincipled agreements begin again, because once there is, once we have accepted that it should be reported in majoritys, it should also be taken into account in proportional ones. Otherwise, you can see the different political interests here now. My personal deep impression and opinion is that this box shouldn't have been there. Once we accepted that there would be a mandatory vote, we had to encourage the voter to take responsibility by voting for specific parties and candidates, and not to give him an opportunity that he could very easily accept. And tomorrow, when the proper government comes, he starts criticizing this one, the one, and he himself has not taken responsibility during the vote. Once again, my deep vision was that this box shouldn't have been there. Now that it is there, we have taken absolutely precisely and correctly that during the majority elections its influence on the electoral process must be taken into account as a completely regular voice. That's normal! Since the ballot provides for such an opportunity for this box to be crossed out, it is a legitimate vote. It is a normal vote, not, let's say, invalid vote. However, you see, if the elections are proportional, then things become very political and unprincipled. Once we have accepted to have it in proportionate elections, honourable Members, it should be noted that against one part of the Bulgarian citizens all parties could not convince them that they were the best and that they should be supported, and some of the Bulgarian citizens gave a penalty vote for all party entities, for the whole political spectrum. And then we should be able to account for this penal vote in a very simple and principled way that corresponds to the meaning of having this box. If, for example, before elections, this box preferred it, for example, 500 thousand or 600 thousand Bulgarian citizens, these votes should be distributed proportionately among the parties entering the National Assembly and for these votes from the parties to take out their really won parliamentary seats. That is to say, the 240 is maintained, but the really represented MPs in this House will be less than 240 due to the reporting of this criminal political vote. Of course this National Assembly will not accept it now, but I am convinced that sooner or later, if this box remains, this principle will be adopted, because otherwise everything else is agreement and play with different political interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u59	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? Mr. Kirilov, here's the first line. Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, dear colleague Andreev! I take the following line to highlight the following. Alas, a very modern, very advanced understanding of the importers of the colleagues Slavov and Andreev. In the previous debate at first reading, I even had the opportunity to explain some debates by the French Parliament in this regard with regard to the weight of the box and the consequence of the white vote, which is a negative vote leading to a lack of mandate. But this understanding is not supported by the Constitution. It is unconstitutional because of the fact that the Constitution determines the exact number of mandates, indicating MPs. The Constitution does not use the term "manandati" but it uses the Members of the National Assembly. So I accept the thesis of fellow importers as a topic of a future debate, and a future constitutional debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? People's representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Andreev, I agree with you in principle with regard to your opinion that this box was absolutely unnecessary entirely, but his philosophy is mistaken and from here you draw some misconceptions at all about the meaning of this box. What are the elections, Comrade Andreev? Elections are giving a positive vote to choose from what there is, figuratively speaking, on the table. This is a positive vote, support for the respective authority. Elections are made to reformate power, any power. You can't have the so-called "protest vote" in a positive election! I said it. Even in the very sentence, there is no logic: I am voting for the fact that I am not supporting anyone! There is a denial in this sentence, not a positive vote. It's absurd as logic, as opportunity. You are right that those who do not want to support these candidates who are represented by the appropriate kind of choice... But they have many other options - they can broadcast their candidates, committee committees, a party to make or simply release the white ballot, or stay home, or nullify them all. There are a number of ways and ways, but then the voice itself counts as invalid. I'm coming out of the debate at all. Obviously, it's unconstitutional! I address my colleague Kirilov and you, but that is not the point. The question is in the whole wrong philosophy of this box and the mandatory vote, which is a pretext for the introduction of this box. That's why we come to these absurdities that we're currently looking at here. There will be no... Well, if they vote 99%, I don't support anyone, how many people will this National Assembly be? By two people! This is where the understanding of power and the management of a society and of a state with these proposals is sabotaged. But we've come this far anyway. And you are right, but we have come this far precisely because of these insane proposals in the first adoption of this Election Code and now its continuing action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Is there a third line? Mr. Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Andreev, in fact, the only truth in the lines said it by colleague Danail Kirilov. However, I take a line on a completely different subject, which seems to be missing out on you, and many of my colleagues are missing it. Somehow, it's very easy to neglect and turn the square in question into a super serious problem. I will express my personal opinion by saying to you that this is not the case. Why not? How is it that suddenly, somehow very strange, all present MPs have forgotten the problem called "dead souls"? In fact, according to the Election Code, one voter has the right to vote only once. What was the situation until this box was missing? The one who does not recognize any of the candidates made his choice by turning the ballot into invalid. One big part, and here's the big problem, they just didn't go to vote. Then, I ask, who and how did he take advantage of these people's personal data? We have an example now that the personal data of Bulgarian citizens are distributed as halva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u65	The flash drive, the flash drive!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u66	That's the truth. You know how to make signatures on initiative committees, you know how many people have filed complaints about theft of personal data. But there is another bigger problem to which you do not pay attention to the elections abroad until now began on a white sheet. In fact, the Bulgarian citizen here is much more discriminated against than the resident abroad. Because if the Bulgarian citizen wants Burgas to come to the vote in Sofia, he had to go to the office by October 22nd, to take a person to declare that he gave him the right to register at the current address, and only then to get the right to vote. For those living abroad, these obstacles are gone. But it remains the possibility, through the mandatory vote and this square, to minimize the effect called the dead souls. See, that's the point of this box that I support in that sense. There's a lot to talk about from there.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. A hole, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u68	I accept all the arguments that have been put forward by the previous one, because in the end it is evident that the issue is neither resolved now nor perhaps will be resolved even after one term. The problem is that after all the elections we are touching the Election Code, which means that there is a lot of policy in it, not objective, necessary for the state and its stability texts. That's the problem. And whether the square has it or not.. it is a matter of very serious disputes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u69	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev in his unsupported part, namely that. 2. They voted 100 MPs: for 3, against 46, abstention 51. The proposal by the MPs Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreyev in this part of the proposal. Two, not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 2 by importer. Vote 104 MPs: 90 against 5, abstention 9. The Commission's proposal to reject § 2 by importer has been accepted. The same is the proposal, which was supported, the proposal of Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u70	By § 3, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u71	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which is fully supported by the Commission and becomes § 2 in its report. They voted 106 MPs: 81 against 11, 14 abstentions. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u72	Proposal by Petar Slavov and Methodie Andreyev. Under § 4, there is a proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreyev, § 4 is deleted. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u73	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 4 by importer. Voted 103 MPs: 93 against 5, abstention 5. The Commission's proposal to reject § 4 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u74	Under § 5, there is a proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreyev, § 5 is deleted. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u75	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 5 by importer. Vote 108 MPs: 94 against 2, abstention 12. Paragraph 5 by importer on a proposal from the Commission is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u76	Under § 6 the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u77	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6 fully supported by the Commission and becoming § 3 in its report. Vote 104 MPs: 83 against 16, abstention 5. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I voted against § 6, which becomes § 3. This is about the distribution of the box. I do not support anyone in terms of the presidential elections. We are voting against all variations to count this box, based on the principle position that this box and its implication in our legislation in the Election Code is an absolutely wrong philosophy and misconception of elections as such. Therefore, we did not support the other proposals. We support those who are for dropping the relevant paragraphs. We will thus also vote on the other proposals of the Commission or of the respective Members of Parliament. This box we had proposed was not accepted and had to be dropped at all by the Election Code, because no matter how you count it, it will give distortions in the results. It can't count for presidential elections. It can't count for parliamentary elections. It can't count for parliamentary elections. What's the logic?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Kirilov, § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreyev, paragraph 7 is deleted. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u81	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 7 by importer. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 86 against 6, abstention 7. The Commission's proposal to reject § 7 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u82	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u83	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8 fully supported by the Commission and becoming § 4 in its report. We are voting § 4 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 75 against 6, abstention 14. The Commission's proposal to reject § 7 has been accepted. This was § 4 on the Commission report which was adopted. Moving on to § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u84	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 9 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u85	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 9 by importer. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 87, Against 7, abstention 2. Paragraph 9 by importer on a proposal from the Commission is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u86	'Concluding provision'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following wording of the name
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u87	We are voting on the Commission's version of the name "Transitional and final provisions." Vote 95 MPs: 87, Against 6, abstention 2. The term "Transitional and Final Provisions" has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u88	Proposal from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev and Filip Popov: The following amendments and additions shall be made to the section: 1. The title of the division shall be changed to "Concluding provisions'. 2. Paragraph 11 shall be inserted: ..................................................... (1) For the elections for the President and Vice-President of the Republic in 2016, voters who are posted on the day of the elections and fulfil their employment obligations or service in a border region may vote in a selection section at the locality of their secondment if it is different from the locality at a permanent address. (2) 3a exercise of the law under para. 1 The voter shall submit to the relevant selection panel: 1. ID; 2. the order for the business trip and 3. a statement by model that he has not voted and will not vote elsewhere. (3) The voter shall be included in the additional page of the electoral list. The entry shall contain all personal data of the voter, as well as the particulars of the order for secondment (number, date and poster), and the declaration of the appointment. 3 of the preceding subparagraph shall apply to the electoral list. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u89	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will make just one clarification: yesterday the Legal Committee supported our proposal in principle, but then, when trying to edit the same, no agreement was reached and the Commission rejected a decision already voted on and adopted by it. We have proposed the possibility of practically thousands of Bulgarian citizens working in the structures of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, to our security services, those who guard the Bulgarian border and are engaged in countering migration pressure, not only being obliged to properly carry out their services and to protect the national interest and sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria and to be able to exercise their right to vote. That's what our offer is for. In case you don't like it, because there were voices that were quite extended, I am making an editorial proposal that sounds like this: the election for President and Vice President of the Republic in 2016 and the referendum, the voters who were posted on election day...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u91	Are you proposing for the new paragraphs 5 and 6 already?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u92	On our proposal. ..from the respective state offices to protect the Bulgarian border and to counter the migration pressure....................................... can remain the same............................................................................................................................................................................................................. With this proposal we will give the opportunity, I repeat, to thousands of Bulgarians who are tasked with guarding the Bulgarian border, to ultimately be able to exercise their right to vote in respect of the referendum, because there were obstructions in the Legal Commission and in relation to the upcoming presidential elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's editorial proposal. They voted 98 MPs: 27, against 27, abstention 44. I put to the vote the proposal itself as it has been made, without the newly unaccepted editorial proposal. We are voting for a proposal which is not supported by the Commission, made by the MPs Chavdar Georgiev and Philip Popov. They voted 92 MPs: 21, against 47, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal by the MPs Georgi Kadiev and Danail Kirilov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 5 and 6: .................................................................................. In producing the election for president and vice president of the Republic in 2016, at the same time as partial elections for the mayor, the sectional election committees appointed by the regional election committees shall exercise the powers of the sectional election committees and for the partial election. The members of the selection committees of the municipal electoral committees appointed until the entry into force of this Act shall be released. The number of members of the selection committees by sentence first, including a chairman, Vice-President and Secretary, shall be for sections with up to 500 voters, including 7 members, and for sections with more than 500 voters, 9 members. The remuneration of the members of the selection committees by sentence shall be twice the remuneration under art. 97, para. 2. The sectional election committees by sentence shall first transmit the minutes of the respective type of election to the district, respectively the municipal electoral commission. § 6. Within two days of the entry into force of this Act, the Central Election Commission shall determine, in accordance with it, places in the Member States of the European Union in which electoral stations will be formed and their number in each place. On the basis of the decision of the Central Election Commission, the heads of diplomatic or consular missions shall immediately form the polling stations. The Central Election Commission shall immediately appoint the selection committees according to the order of art. 102-105.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u95	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once we have seen that the government is afraid of the Bulgarian army and police, now we are again offered a casework and Adhok legislation. This is being done for the purpose of the partial local elections in Mladost, honourable Members, if you do not know, you already know. What are we offered here? The three types of elections for president, referendum and partial elections should be in a sectional committee. In practice, there should be three urns there, with the Commission's membership almost not being increased, but its remuneration increased. Dear Members of the National Assembly, if it will be fivefold the remuneration, the people of this sectary election commission are the same. Their utility rate cannot be increased by raising their remuneration because they have to process three types of elections. They must have several lists, at least two.. those that are for the partial elections, because you know that there are on the principle of sedentary, and those for the President. Which of these members of the sectional committee who will accompany the ballots? There will be queues in front of the sectary election committee itself. This will, of course, lead to chaos that is intended by the rulers and, accordingly, greater, good opportunities for manipulating the election result in. That's what's gonna happen in this election. That is why we were and now we will be against this proposal because, in a well-meaning form of economy, although Sofia Municipality has stated that there are enough sectional election committees, which for the respective types of elections are next to each other, this will not be difficult in any way for the voter. On the contrary, it will be easier because the vote itself will become faster because it will be processed, noticed, by a double composition of the sectary electoral committee in practice, one for president and referendum, and a second composition for the partial local elections. Naturally, the possibility of voting, the duration will be much less, and I do not share in any way the argument that it made it easier for the voter. Yes, he is. He's having a hard time. In a decent form of economics, understand, there is virtually no legality and transparency of these elections, but perhaps this is aimed at a rule of law as we claim to be. Next, representatives of the Central Election Commission attended the Legal Commission yesterday. This is the authority in Bulgaria to which all the powers in connection with the production of any elections in Bulgaria have been replaced. These are people who are professionals. The unanimous opinion of the Central Election Commission is not to do this for those reasons that I have explained to you and for a number of other reasons that have been set out in the Legal Commission. We are absolutely intent on the government creating chaos in these elections. You gave up an extra box and urn abroad in your proposal here, but you are doing the same thing in practice in the elections in sectional committees in Bulgaria and this under the ugliness of compulsory voting and possible sanction for both national elections and local ones. This is absolutely arrogant behavior in order to create chaos in the upcoming elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, it was just yesterday that the debate in the Legal Committee showed the value of the planned problems for the political propaganda and demagogy of the BSP. I took the liberty of saying it then, and I will repeat it: Yes, you look at "Mladost" as of Stalingrad. The President of the Sofia City Organization was also present in the Legal Commission yesterday. We gave him the opportunity to make a big deal out of it. I told the Legal Committee and I will repeat here: before we sign with my colleague Kadiev this proposal, we have volunteered, at our request, to hear from us the Central Election Commission, because it so far intentionally or intentionally, as a collective body, I will not comment on the will, but so far the Central Election Commission has created only obstacles, especially for this partial choice. The problems in every single element in the organisation of the vote for "Mladost" are huge. There is nothing that has been undisputed by the Central Election Commission so far. To overcome your fear, I say again: in Bulgarian selective law, not only by the Maya Manolova Code, § 5, and before that, the principle has more than one choice, they are held jointly, acting universally. These are the meaning and optimism of the electoral process. Don't create unnecessary obstacles! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line: Svilen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want you to meet the other side that was deliberately dropped. The interpretation of the Central Election Commission, which we think is not very correct, has actually given instructions for creating two sections, which means that people will line up in two queues to vote twice. At least I've never heard of it anywhere in the world. Yesterday I asked the CEC and they evasively did not answer me because this is some practice which is being introduced in Bulgaria and I think it is unheard of to make voters line up in two queues for two separate choices. Always the principle, as Mr. Kirilov said, is when there are elections to be voted in one place. At the moment, BSP's attempts to manipulate us should not be able to provoke us. The vote must take place in one place, with this change giving this opportunity. As mentioned, our goal is to increase voter turnout and facilitate the vote, because this is the idea of the lawmaker. The CEC must comply with this when it interprets the laws and not speak from parties that want the activity to be small to increase their percentage, to demagogize the parliamentary tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kirilov, we are not afraid and we are not making these last-minute changes to create chaos in the upcoming elections. You're scared, and that's why you're making these changes. Yes, for us not only "Mladost" but every municipality where there is a risk of distortion of election result where there is no transparency [[SIGHS]] It will become a city, yes, we fight everywhere so that the elections can be transparent, legal and the vote of the Bulgarian citizen will be as reflected in the relevant protocols as he has voted. That's what you're afraid of. You are afraid that they will not support you in both the presidential and the local elections, so you are doing these last-minute distortions -- not in twelve minutes without five, twelve and a half -- you are doing them in twelve-and-a-half -- in the case of already appointed sectional committees for the local elections, in the case of already trained composition of the sectional committees for the local elections. Now you will make a new membership of the sectional election committees so there will be a queue. One queue or two queues of colleagues, this queue in front of one sectary election committee will be not as much as for two, but for five committees will be this queue and people will not be able to exercise their right to vote on either or the other type of election. You don't want voter turnout so your manipulations can catch Decish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. For a statement there is the national representative Georgi Kadiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u104	My fellow Members, I am the co-ordinator of this bill. It was a modified form of the Bill which I had introduced a week ago and was rejected at first reading, which included the exact same text. The aim, as was correctly described, is when on the same day presidential and partial local elections and referendum are produced, the vote should be in a section. In this case, this concerns the region of Sofia and two other villages, if I am not mistaken. Absolutely wasn't about some butlerizing and saving money. So far, you have two sections: one out of seven, the other out of five people. Under the new Law, it will be one of nine people, that is, three less. 125 sections in each of them are 375, 50 BGN each. $18,000. lv. We all understand that the cost of the election is not 18,000. Lev?! The aim was not to introduce some kind of chaos, much less to make people line up in bigger queues, and even less so to reduce turnout. On the contrary, the purpose of this Law is quite logical. You go to the elections, you enter a room, you take all the ballots, you vote if you don't want to, you don't vote, but you line up and you have three urns, you drop in, you go out and leave. I don't know a normal person who would want to go through a room, line up to vote. I myself vote in the region and I know what I want, and every person expects this thing. I don't see anything political here, I don't see anything that somehow prejudges the course of the election. Yeah, manipulations are possible, problems are possible, but they've always been there. At the meeting of the CEC, which we attended with colleague Kirilov and the presence yesterday of the colleague Mussorlieva from the CEC of the Committee on Legal Affairs, clearly and explicitly the CEC said the following thing: "Yes, we have our remarks, yes, we disagree, but the CEC will deal with it. If they can't handle it, it's their problem. Our problem as legislator is to make it easy for the voter and not easy for the administration. That's what you do in normal countries. What we're doing right now is right for the voter to be easy. The administration after she said she could handle it, so we expect her to handle it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u106	Thank you. Dear Mr. Kadyev, it will not be easy for the voter, and that is what these changes you are taking will lead to. I told you that. There will be huge tails in front of the Section Committee itself. When the election day is over, they will not be able to vote all the people they wanted, because this is a single composition of the selection election committee, which should control the elections in terms of their legality. You'll have two types of lists, you'll have two sacks. How are they going to process? How will they control the legality of these elections? In fact, people going, seeing this huge tail, a lot of them will give up voting, and they won't go to the next room to vote for the other kind of choice. Understand, it's simple. More administration are two section committees, easier access to the sectary committee, faster voting. You put them in one room all the voters there on different lists, with different stamps. If one seal is wrong, you heard yesterday and the representative of the CEC, the ballots become null and void. That's what's gonna happen! There is no way that this small administration, in this case, is guarding the proceedings during elections. That's not gonna happen! On the contrary, there will be, as I said, a chaos and neither the voter will win, nor the relevant selection committee will be able to do its job as follows due to its workload and commitment to various types of activities on the day of the elections and then.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u107	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Kadiev, you will have to try to explain why it is easier to vote in one cubicle than in two different rooms in two different sections, as Mr. Popov is obviously trying to explain to us that it is easier in two different rooms. Again, the attempt to manipulate the BSP is not going to happen. There are additional ways, e.g. through a stamp, so that you can not make the votes invalid, to solve these problems internally in the CEC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Is there a third line? No. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u110	Dear colleagues, I do not understand this unkind fear of election in a room. The current Election Code explicitly states that two booths can be made. The colleague Petar Slavov made a proposal yesterday to oblige them to make two booths, but in my opinion, the section committees themselves will make it possible for citizens to vote in two booths inside one section. As for whether the seal would be confused is their business, it is not my job to look at their seals. There can be no justification for the CEC's election being the more complicated way to be that someone would have confused the press.....................then it wasn't for this job..... simple and clear! My goal really is, first of all, to facilitate voters, second of all, to have a higher turnout. Who's afraid of higher turnout? Isn't it clear that they're going to vote for a president who is undoubtedly the most important choice, and then they're just going to leave when they see the other line in the second room?! Why are we doing this thing? We do it in one room, they get the three ballots, they don't have to vote for all three elections, they vote for the one they want, they go out and they go away simple and clear!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u111	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. To speak the word has the popular representative Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! For us from the Patriotic Front, these texts carry very serious risks. I mean the texts that the Legal Committee adopted yesterday. First of all, I tried to imagine the situation in a polling section, how the vote would develop at a time when they piled up, like after ten hours, what would happen. I see how we have three different lists, on these three different lists there is one individual from the members of the Commission who are directly involved with the review of the ID card, with the corresponding tracking of the name, the signature and so on. These three people can't deal with anything else all day. The rest of them are always part of the expenditure, there should be people watching the entry, exit, respectively the entry into the room and the possible non-compliance in the vote itself. In other words, it is quite gravely burdened by this committee and there is a risk that it may not be able to carry out its duties as it is legally imposed on it. Just imagine the first voter enters, goes to the first list, presents his ID card, respectively gives him the newsletter, goes to the second list, gives him the newsletter, turns and enters the first room, then comes out, signs, returns his ID card or transmits it to the other member of the committee, who follows the appointment lists for the mayor of After exit, there is a detection of streams and a accumulation of people can occur and, consequently, a confusion in both the voting and the tracking of the identity of the people who are voting. This is quite serious and tense activity of the Selection Election Commission, and any more intense and busy activity poses a risk of error. This would in any case cause, especially in the hours after 9:30, a rather serious crowd of people waiting for their turn. We remember the long tails in 2011. The local elections and the presidential elections. You remember the mass discontent and the mass rejection of people who, when they went and lined up and saw the huge tails, came back, came back a second time and finally gave up and didn't vote at all. This would work if we accepted the text for the vote in a united section for the election of mayor and president. The other which is an unpleasant and aggravating consequence of the adoption of such a text is the presence of a double number of advocates, observers, party representatives. Do not underestimate this moment, because in the end we are talking about a restriction as an area in the premises. In these rooms there will be a large cluster, which leads to greater chaos. Not to say chaos, but a higher level of tension in the presence of a larger number of people. From there on, the risk of errors at the end of the election day should not be underestimated here in other speeches. Wrongly placed stamp makes the choice completely invalid, whether it is for mayor or not, whether it is for the presidential elections. So all those who voted all day, all of a sudden their votes are being cancelled because I don't know if there will be a court on which, presenting it as evidence of a vicious election, a list of misprints, not to judge that these are actually corrupted elections. That's not gonna happen. The other thing is, let's leave and break our fingers, and wait for the court not to make such a decision, since the circumstances are so. [[Reply by National Representative Danail Kirilov: "The stamp is one. "]] So far, there are two seals, Mr. Kirilov. You will speak. So far, there's two seals, maybe one, but then pay attention to the other arguments I'm putting out right now. There is also the risk of confusion of voting in different urns, confusion of the urns too. The next period, very difficult to engage with the electoral process, is the period of reporting the ballots. They're accounted for in the RIK and the OIC. They are in one place, whether they will not be in one place, but it is about carrying three bags, which are reported in different places. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This also leads to the relevant risks of confusion. Finally, as an example, I can give you, if you allow a little extension...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u113	One sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u114	One will not be able, but I can tell you, we will appear as united patriots - these are the formations of Patriotic Front Coalition, Ataka, and United Farmers. We'll show up everywhere we'll have three, and maybe somewhere we'll have more in eight without five guides of the three structures we'll order: come on, now mess up the seals. And at eight o'clock, when they hit 15 places, they mess up the seals, you'll see elections fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u115	There are lines to Mr. Simeonov's statement. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Nikolov, a line? [[Reply by National Representative Valentin Nikolov.]] Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Simeonov, I understand your concern in general, but the greater concern for me is what the Code of Elections used to say should be in separate premises. At every school in "Mladost" this could have happened, but at 131 school in "Mladost" 4 this could not have happened because the rooms for the different sections were strictly limited, that is, at one point Sofia Municipality had in some way to build premises in the gymnasium, in any other common premises, separating them with some sort of screens and other facilities in order to create these different rooms. Can you imagine the voter going into one room, lining up, voting, and then going to the second line to vote in the second room? How is he gonna look when he's used to being on the second floor by now, like his room, and now all of a sudden he's got to look somewhere in the gym? All this, in my opinion, will damage the electoral process and the voter's motivation to vote for any choice. I think that some of your concerns about whether the committee, which is of 9 members, repeat 9 members, will not be able to handle it, but, in fact, before the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, the two committees were together, two by five, i.e. I do not see much difference in the distribution of functions, only that they would be in separate premises. The seal, as you understand, will be one. On top of that, the ballots are too different to be confused and put in separate urns. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I say again that we should motivate the voter to vote, not demotivate him. This is the main motive on which it is being worked, namely to change the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u117	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Second line - Mr. Alexander Nenkov, third line - Philip Popov. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Nenkov, is your speech going to be dropped, or is it staying? [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Simeonov, with all due respect, that in any case one and the other have their risks, and given that there is no policy here in this proposal, but we are actually looking for and perhaps I am excluding the left side, there are always looking for other motives, but in this case we need to find the most reasonable option for voters. Not for election committees that finally determine the results and carry them to a regional electoral commission or to the OIC or to the Central Election Commission. They will be obliged to comply with the decision of the National Assembly. What I don't like about your speech is that you kind of tilt the scales for seeing, eventually someone will replace stamps, make forgery and so on. Please, let's stop talking about this. On the left, I understand that they are in a lot of pain, and it has always been their theme to justify their hardships, but it is you, with all due respect, that we should not go into this because we are scaring citizens that almost everything is being done for the purpose of any manipulation. No, on the contrary, both options have their pros and cons, but I think that the option in which there is a committee, although perhaps organizational will be more difficult.. this should not frighten us, on the contrary, we should rather help these committees to do their job and whatever it takes to finally prevent people from being pushed away from lining up in different queues, but to end up in one room with their civic duty and nothing more. Please don't make such suggestions that someone will beat different seals on different protocols. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u119	Thank you. Third line? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u120	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Simeonov, you expressed a principled position. The concerns you have shared from this tribune are perfectly justified. However, I hope that the Patriotic Front will wholeheartedly support this position that you expressed from this platform and vote against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u121	Thank you. A hole, Mr. Simeonov. While he's coming, let you know who signed up for speeches, I guess there won't be anyone else. Alexander Nenkov, Nikolay Alexandrov, Daniel Kirilov, Georgi Bozhinov. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Once again, I stress: I do not put any policy into it! No politics, and I don't blame anyone. Regarding Mr. Nikolov's lines. The second tail very often can be a more relaxed solution than a long, large tail. Either way, the time you have to wait will be the same. On the argument that in some schools the sections are in other places, perhaps there is, but my information is that in most places there are selected adjacent rooms. So whoever wants to vote and wants to do it wisely and responsibly, he will. If he has to go down to the basement and find his section. Once he's gone to vote, he'll find her. But in any case, there will be choices. If, for example, he sees that there are different tails in both places, he will go to the smaller tail and then to the other, purely pragmatic. Mr. Nenkov, the criminal scenario, Mr. Nenkov, is possible. I didn't blame anyone, on the contrary, I even said we could do it, but we won't. But theoretically, it's possible. I don't want to bother anyone. Once again, with one command at 5 to 8 you can corrupt the elections, especially if there are two seals, but this will be explained if you can. Finally, I, after all, would like to think whether or not to support such a grouping of sections if it would bring less costs to the state. However, when I realized that the members of the sections that will be united will receive double remuneration, there is no financial argument. We'll give the same money. Why don't they split up, take each other to two different places and do their job more responsibly and infallibly? In conclusion, allow me to request that § 5 and § 6 be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u122	Okay, Mr. Simeonov. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u123	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will allow myself to take the time back when I begin the debate on the issue will there be a problem with partial elections in Mladost or there will not be. This issue was discussed probably at least four meetings, but in fact much more, of the Central Election Commission. Here I would like to highlight the role of the Mayor of Sofia Municipality Yordanka Fandakova and her efforts and the diligent election process for I will not go back to the arguments I have already put forward in relation to other speeches, and I will not describe in detail the position of the CEC. The colleague Valeri Simeonov, who now has his back to me, actually launched you the big package of arguments of the CEC why not. Again, he won't say whether or not they want the CEC to optimize this process, but you heard the arguments. These are the arguments of the Central Election Commission presented by Mr. Valeri Simeonov. He was not told just one more manipulative method which was developed by those speaking in the Central Election Commission itself. This is to have a scandal on the third list, as the first are for president and for a referendum. The third list is really special. This is the voting list for the mayor of the population and there is the principle of seclusion, that is, there may be a voter who will receive the two ballots because it is listed on both lists, but for the third one will not receive and then a reaction will occur. Yeah, then there might be an explanation on the spot, there might be a delay on the spot. However, honourable Members, this is the view of how to damage themselves, this is not the view of how to resolve the electoral process in................................ I won't repeat for the fifth time what I said in front of the CEC, and in the Legal Committee, I said it before. Alas, in Bulgaria we often vote for more than one kind of choice at the same time. It's practice. This isn't drama. Drama, however, is for "Mladost" and now it will be a drama instead of 125 SICs to make 250. Yeah, that'd be drama. It will not be a drama for Sofia Municipality, it will be a drama for the citizens, because for the first time citizens are counting on it, to confuse citizens, to complain about having to line up in two different places with a vague prognosis, if there is a line, when they will actually be able to vote for the mayor of the region and leave. If we follow the principle of defending the voter's rights, we must give him the opportunity to vote in one place. Mr. Simeonov was absolutely wrong about what he described on one list taking the ballot, voting, coming back for the other list. Not at all. The list of 3, there is no problem in all three to check the legitimization and the voter to receive as many ballots as he has the right to vote. If it's just the two of them, he'll get the two of them. If he's right about three, he'll get all three. He'll go into the room alone and vote. And that's not a precedent for Sofia. For Sofia often, we regularly vote with more than three ballots for more than three types of elections. I would like to highlight this. In this work Sofia Municipality is extremely conscientious. The mayor and the city did the impossible. There are 250 rooms, there is an organization to perform even the clumsy version, as the CEC suggested. You decide whether we will act in favour of the voter or in favour of electoral bureaucracy!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u124	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u125	Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I will disagree with your doubts and I would like to turn you to the following. I will turn to the fact that you are currently challenging a rarely observed single position of the Central Election Position. 22 members are of the opinion that they should be separate sections. Such a unified position has rarely been observed so far. If we think that we are better specialists than the people who have been appointed and have been doing their job for years, this is more of an overestimate of our opportunities as MPs. We can't be specialists in every field. Let's pay tribute to the people who are professionals. I'm here to respect that principle. What does the opposite mean? In the case that we don't trust their decisions, their professional experience, but we turn to a community or to our own view of the matter, then give these 22 to change them, so they're not doing their job. I cannot accept one categorical rejection of the opinion of the entire Central Election Commission. She has her argumentation. So I disagree with you, and with the fact that on the move, we are already in a phase literally 2 weeks before the elections, we need to change all the rules, lists, appeal deadlines and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u126	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Popov. Mr. Ivanov, if you insist on a third line, I will give you the floor so that there are all groups. Thank you. The third line remains, then Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, we didn't hear here, and we didn't hear any meaningful argument in the Legal Committee in support of this proposal. Yes, it's true, you went to the Central Election Commission in order to make it clear to you, to hear their opinion, but obviously you didn't hear it. And I repeat the whole body, the whole CEC, including your representatives there at GERB, are against this proposal with the arguments you heard from both this tribune and yesterday in the Legal Commission. I can't understand this stubbornness. Actually, I can, and I explained it to you, creating chaos and manipulation of elections. That's what you're after! Run away from this proposal, withdraw it or do not support it. It will result precisely in this, because there is no meaningful argument in your argument for creating a single SIC for three types of elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u128	Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Kirilov! What Mr. Simeonov said, as if he were quoting me in relation to the decisions of the Central Election Commission and the authority that is practically conducting the elections and is best aware of their technique and technology. The other thing I would like to stress is that when elections are held with different legal requirements and when you have training of the sectary electoral commission for two hours of its members, no one is convinced that these people will be sufficiently prepared or mentally or physically sustainable enough by the end of the day not to start making mistakes. Among other things, I'd like to remind you of another technology you're forgetting. This is the countdown of the ballots after that. Imagine a section of 900 people in Mladost, in which, for example, 450 went to vote, which is our desire. After the election is over, nine people will count 21 times the ballots that have been cast for president; 3 times the ballots that have been put for referendum, because each reply counts separately; and 13 times the ballots for mayor of the Municipality are counted for the number of candidates. Can you imagine the countdown of nine people? To what extent will they be able to do this thing? And the last thing I want to say to you: I'm very worried that a big tail of which will be formed because of the slower vote of three times at once will be much more repulsive than the possibility of rushing through two sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u130	Thank you. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Members, replicating! Look, colleague Simeonov, it's not right to argue with the CEC. It is not right to argue from this tribune with the CEC because of the following: we are obliged to give the rules, and the CEC, as repeatedly and in good faith, have highlighted the rules as you give them. In this good faith of the CEC, we have no doubt. However, I would like to remind you here: it is absolutely false that with some complete, absolute majority these decisions have been made! Check them out! They have no valid full decision because they cannot achieve a two-thirds majority. We also went to the Supreme Administrative Court on some of the decisions. [[Heckling]] Please. I'm begging you for this! I'm going to tell you an argument that sounded wrong, and they didn't give it to you right, which sounded right from a guy I didn't expect to support this thesis. This was Svetozar Tomov, who said to his colleagues: "Colegi, why have you so far convinced me that we cannot do this because there was no legal basis? These guys came here to ask you to tell you they're gonna make a plea. But you still don't want to. Why don't you want to? This was unexpected support in this debate or hearing or working meeting, for which I thank you. I use the case to say the following for the press. This is absolute, let's say, rude logical manipulation. If the S.I.C. is one, Mr. Simeonov, and the seal will be one. So these stories about how to confuse stamps, will make the ballots invalid, please! If that's what the CEC is planning to do now, that would be a very rude violation of the law. My colleague Popov won't answer because we've been talking the same thing since yesterday with him, so today is probably the third time. I will say to my colleague Ermenkov the following: Mr. Ermenkov, § 5, I am convinced that in the 40th and second National Assembly you voted for the Maya Manolova Code. There is the possibility of joint, common elections. You then voted for. Most probably, and I was necessarily against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u132	Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, let us mobilize in the next few minutes to complete the discussion and vote. So far, there is a record of Nikolay Alexandrov, Mr. Bozhanov gave up the speech, and Mr. Nenkov, and I think that this discussion is over. Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues, you are looking for the problem, and the problem is the President, and the problem is us. First of all, why is the President the problem? Because the president has scheduled the elections and, if the president hadn't scheduled them this way, we wouldn't be debating and wasting parliamentary time all day. An example of the elections took place in Balchik, which did not coincide with the national elections. Separately, I will return you to May, when you made this Code, then you explained in a long and wide manner how the Venice Commission had decreed at least six months before the elections did not change the Code. [[Reply.]] Even a year, thanks for fixing it. Now it turns out that a week you will make changes. Then there is no policy. There's politics! Because if two weeks ago you refused Georgi Kadiev's proposal, now suddenly you recognize him and turn him on. There is also a problem with the proposal itself. There he writes: "Nine-member committee will carry newsletters in two places in the RIK and the OIC, and according to the Election Code in the OIC or in the RIK mandatory ballots are carried by a chairman and secretary. Are you going to appoint two presidents and two secretaries to the House of Youth? The other statement. The Central Election Commission had no problem making the elections. But the CEC doesn't go to the stamps. This is as valid a statement as the claim that the Bulgarian people have no problems paying their electricity because the Bulgarian MP pays it. You realize that, don't you? And let me tell you something from a practical point of view. I also vote in 125 schools in the region of Mladost. In my section, when I vote, the electoral list is divided into two parts. Now six people will be in charge of the lists? The other one. Yes, we voted with more than one ballot, we voted with two ballots, with three ballots, but we voted for one kind of election. What happens, fellow Members, if one of the ballots from the local elections falls into the ballot box for the presidential election? The ballot is invalid. He doesn't meet the conditions. The record says that in order for it to be valid... It would be very interesting to follow them later if there were such confusion if someone deliberately made that confusion. Why? What's the problem with making the election on another date? In "Mladost" the deadlines were shorter, much shorter, and not now to do a particular text because of a kind of election. You see, from here on out, we're dealing with these guys. It's not an exception. It's as big as Dobrich. There are so many voters, Mr. Ivanov, in Mladost. Because I see you both MPs from GERB as much as in Dobrich, there are also in "Mladost." We can't make fun of these people right now. It's perfectly reasonable to have two committees. Elections in "Mladost" are held in schools, if you do not know, for the most part "90%." These schools do not have one student room, as you know. Accordingly, it can be made to the classroom next to the urn, which can reproduce only for one type of election. Explain to me practically how the Commission will happen to take the ballots to the OIC and to the RIK at the same time? Because at the end of the selection it becomes such a commotion, such chaos and everyone has to leave first. It's absolutely pointless. Nor will we save from democracy, let alone talk about funds. In national terms, 18,000. BGN, if you think it's a very big save, let's do it! Then you will see a song from what was last year in the local elections. In order to avoid this thing, it means that you have to unite both the RIK and the OIC in the Arena Armeec. The other option is to catch the vans of Sofia Municipality, which will ensure that Mayor Fandakova travels as routers, first, will stop at the OIC to leave the ballots there and to leave the three-way to carry the bag, and then you will go to the RIK. There's no way this thing's gonna happen. This thing isn't working! Well, you've thought, sounds good, something you're told purely politically to be able to reproduce it in the text, you've reproduced it, okay, I get it, you've clearly politically done your job, but practically this whole story is lame. Understand this thing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u134	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Popov, a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u135	Dear colleagues Alexandrov, you are right that in cloudy water is the easiest to fish. That is exactly what will happen in "Mladost" because from last week, if memory serves, there is one solution of the Central Election Commission, of course, it is in line with the Election Code, which says that all security cameras in the relevant schools are excluded. Everywhere. And with no one to record this chaos and what happens in front of the sections, in the sections and so on, I guess what will be there and the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u136	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u137	Mr. Alexandrov, you also neglected to say that when the route passes and one bag must be carried to the Commission, they must carry the other with them, because there is no way they can leave it in the route uncontrollably. I mean, they'll walk with the two bags, then they'll come back with one bag. Something can happen along the way with the bags, but we know we have such photos, we have seen such footage, how certain people from GERB carry bags up and down. Maybe this is a new exercise that they're trying to introduce us to.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u138	Mr. Ivanov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Alexandrov, don't fall for the BSP pad. Their idea today is to tell how the elections will be faked and once they lose the elections, to come out and start saying that they are faked. This is the same thing in all elections, including the President's are the same attempts, including the percentages they give to their candidate and then when there is a difference, they will say: yes, the elections have been manipulated. Don't give in! Don't convince me it's easier to vote in two places than one. Even if you convince me, I don't know which voter will believe you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u140	Thank you. Mr. Alexandrov, is it the back? Here you go. The last statement is Mr. Nenkov's, and then the vote will be cast. Here you go for the doppelganger, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I do not fall for anyone's talk, because we have the ambition to win the elections, so I cannot be concerned whether or not they will be manipulated. I'm telling you the factual error you made in the test because the text was signed by Kadyev and Kirilov. It is very clearly written there: Including Chairman, Vice-President and Secretary. Colleagues, in the Election Code, open the Election Code and read: The newsletters must, and the bag, together with the protocols, are carried by a chairman, secretary and one member of choice. It's really the right thing to do here. In the route, what? Everyone gets on board, brings the ballots to the OIC, and then they have to carry the other bag, because they can't leave it unattended, as these people are in charge of the bag. They bring the ballots to the OIC, they go to the RIK, or you collect them at the same place so they have the same address so they don't leave the ballots unattended. Understand it! This is both the wolf and the lamb and the hay are whole. That's what you're trying to do. Understand that the text thus inserted, and at the last moment, given that this House has already rejected a similar proposal, you understand yourself that it motivates and leads to the fact that this text is not sufficiently clean. Maybe that's what you should have thought of in advance. Once you rejected it, it was similar. He was similar! The confession itself belonged to one of the importers. You have to think very carefully about the texts. I call on you, let us really, when you speak one thing in May, one year to have a period of change, to be one year. We can't make any changes in the 90th minute. Do you agree, colleagues? Because absolutely all those who are lawyers in GERB then went out and defended this thesis. I call on you, return to your same thesis! And Mr. Chairman, I ask that you submit the appropriate procedural proposal: § 5 be dismissed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u142	Thank you. Mr. Nenkov for a statement. Then you want a procedure, Mr. Popov? Is it procedure now? No. Mr. Nenkov, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] No, I think we should vote before we take a break. I think that's better. Would you like a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I dare say we've put a lot of politics into this text and this amendment. I mean, there's no politics here. For people who have made choices so many times, knowing the subtlety of what the workload is in a committee, about what the psychology of a voter is like when he goes to vote, taking into account really that both options, all the options that have ranked, each of them has its own pros and disadvantages. Here it is very important to take account of something that we must carry out as MPs, regardless of what the Central Election Commission is saying, because I dare say that, especially in these elections, the CEC, and for the past elections, have a great deal of guilt for what has happened in the Arena Armeets, have a great deal of guilt, and that at the moment, with no decision of their own, they are not trying to ease the process, given the elections in the "Mladost" in particular, as this is indeed a huge city, literally as Dobrich, and more securely as 125 sections, and it is very important that voters are not pushed away. And here we must decide whether we want to comply with bureaucracy, that the Central Election Commission does not like or like. And me, to tell you the truth, I don't really care what the Central Election Commission likes. It's what the voters think that matters to me. And as for this decision of ours, we must choose whether we will comply with the Central Election Commission, or whether we will comply with the citizens having easier access and not pushing them away when they go to vote. Indeed, if we are responsible MPs, we should look for this option and not take into account one committee or another, because I am not very convinced that these people in the Central Election Commission or the larger percentage of them have ever made on the spot elections and know what this is about. As far as I am concerned, and that is what I want to end, to the people who are in the sectional committees on the ground, I apologize, but the state, first, provides them with funding for this thing, they are paid. They are officials within the meaning of the law, and although it may be a more difficult process, although they may wait a little longer, they have ultimately chosen to be there on a voluntary basis, they are paid for it and, within the meaning of the law, they are obliged to fulfil their obligations under Law. And the voters are the ones that we need to support to go, to get in, to wait for a queue, to vote for the three kinds of elections and get out, not to drive them from one line to another, to divide gymnasiums into I don't know what your quarters are and so on. I really suggest we look here for the rational way to get people to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of a parliamentary group, I request a name check. Let us see how the ruling majority will make a majority in the National Assembly to pass these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u146	Thank you. Please, name-check lists. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - here Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Volen Nikolov Siderov - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov - absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lyubenova Sokolova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - absent Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manoil Minchev Manev - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - absent Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - absent Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - absent Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - absent Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Additionally recorded: Ana Barakova, Atanas Atanasov, Atanas Tashkov, Georgi Andonov, Georgi Kovachev, Grozdan Karadzhov, Nastimir Ananiev, Emil Dimitrov. We have a quorum. [[Applause.]] I shall put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 5 in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 113 MPs: 80 against 17, abstention 16. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 with the relevant content in accordance with the Commission report. They voted 115 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 14. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u147	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u148	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 10, fully supported by the Commission and becoming § 7 in its report. Vote 109 MPs: 95 against 2, abstention 12. The paragraph has been adopted and the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code has thus been adopted in the second vote. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u149	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against it because the height of one person's thinking is measured and shown in his attitude towards others. The status itself in society is not a factor. Today we have witnessed the political immatureness, the democratic immatureness of the ruling majority. [[Strong noise in the hall. A large part of the MPs are leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u150	Mr. Ibryamov, excuse me for a moment, wait. Colleagues, please, either move out of the room faster, or if anyone wants to talk, let them be outside the room, or take your seats. Have a little more respect for the colleague who's on the stand. I'm sorry again, Mr. Ibryamov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u151	Today the ruling majority together with the political party GERB enjoy their success. I'll even call it a political orgasm, colleagues, because you have created another untruth, a lie to Bulgarian citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u152	Why are you speaking now that you're not on the roll call?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u153	...Bulgarian citizens who have equal rights like all of us. You trampled the Constitution, you trampled human rights! It is clear to everyone that in countries outside the European Union there is a large diaspora of Bulgarian citizens in both the US and Canada and in the Republic of Turkey and in Ukraine and in Macedonia and in Russia. I ask myself: how are Bulgarian citizens, ethnic Turks, who have a large diaspora in Spain, who have a large diaspora in the Netherlands, in Belgium different from those in the Republic of Turkey? It is very easy to point out the fact that more than 7,000 applications have been collected in Britain and to find a number of sections of goodwill. There are over 8,000 in Turkey, colleagues! And I don't share the opinion of MPs who say there's almost a dictatorship there. You're wrong, colleagues! It is a democratic state because it allows all Bulgarian citizens to vote. However, the Bulgarian state with this legislation stops and does not give them the right to exercise their vote. [[The President said that the time had run out.]] I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. And since it has been fashionable lately to point out Bible quotations, I will add: all of you have sinned together and all of you have become useless! Colleagues, you have humiliated Bulgarian citizens even more than refugees! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u154	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Are there any other negative votes? I won't. I'm calling a recess for 30 minutes. We continue at 12.20 pm with the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Act. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u155	Dear Members of Parliament, the time has come for the continuation of the sitting........................................................................................... Mr. Ademov is ready to begin with the report on: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR EMPLOYING EMPLOYMENT. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016, adopted at the first vote on 8 September 2016. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before that, allow me to make a procedural proposal to be admitted to the Chamber the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov, and the Director of Directorate at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Elka Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u157	Proposal for admission to the Chamber. I suggest we wait a little while for you to start with the report. If we don't get enough MPs by then, we'll move on to a roll call. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the amendment and supplement of the Employment Promotion Act, No 602-01-47, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016, adopted on the first vote on 8 September 2016. A second vote project. The Law on the Promotion of Employment is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Promotion of Employment. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u159	Report the next § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u160	The next paragraph, Mr President, you see that there is an additional report to the main report. Paragraph 3 supposed by the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Galya Zaharieva, Dimitar Gechev, Venka Stoyanova and Claudia Gancheva. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u161	That is to say, you are essentially suggesting that the Additional Report be dropped. Mr. Gokov has the floor to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My notes are by § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u163	Your notes are editorial, are they?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u164	I'll have an editorial amendment at the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u165	I mean, you're going to justify it, because others are not going to be able to do it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u166	It's an attitude of the paragraph. In general, § 1 introduces new obligations of the Permanent Employment Commission to the regional governors. The permanent employment commission of the district governor is a permanent active body that assists the district governor in defining, organising and controlling the state policy on promoting employment and training of adults at regional level. It was established on the basis of the Employment Promotion Act, its Implementation Rules. The inclusion of a new obligation, of a new activity of the regional employment committees, twice a year to recruit, process and provide information in the Employment Agency on the needs of employers of a workforce in the field itself, is a good solution even, I would call, an excellent hit, which can lead to the identification of the needs of local employers of a particular workforce with a certain qualification. I stress, as long as these committees do not formally refer to this obligation. I don't know if the MPs are aware of how these committees are formed? This is done by order of the district governor on the basis of the Law on Administration, the Law on Employment Promotion and the Rules for its Implementation. So far so good, but you are aware that the local governors are politically appointed, political persons and are rarely experts in something, and even less in employment matters. For this reason, in the formation of these committees are people who are far from the problems or problems of employment. My reservations in this case are that it is likely that the recruitment and processing of information about the employment needs of employers in the field will be an obligation solely and solely for employees of the Bureau of Labour, who are members of this committee. Once the information has been collected by the employees of the employment bureaus, the information will be summarised and sent to the Employment Agency, which, in turn, will return them to the Employment Agency, to return them to the Labour Offices to use this information. It's becoming a closed circle, and I don't know what the use is. However, I will support the proposal because it is essentially well designed. I hope that the order of recruitment, processing and provision of this information will work under the Rules of Law so as not to have the effect I have indicated. In conclusion, I will make an editorial proposal that does not change the meaning of the text: The creation of para. 2: The Employment Committee of the District Development Council shall permanently recruit, process and twice a year provide the Employment Agency with information on the employment needs of employers in the field, taking into account the priorities set out in the documents under para. 1. The order of recruitment, processing and provision of information shall be laid down in the Rules for Law Enforcement..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The difference in my editorial proposal is that I do not know whether it is appropriate for the word "permanently" to be present in the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u167	We'll replace it with a constant one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u168	Perhaps it should be said that it should constantly collect this information and only twice a year send it to the Employment Agency. Campanial gathering of such information will hardly lead to good results. Think about my editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u169	Mr. Gokov, while you're in the stands, I'll see if I've covered it. The Employment Officer of the District Development Council constantly recruits, processes and transmits twice a year...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u170	Mr. Chairman, I'll give you my offer. To see this proposal and not to be formally rejected because it is proposed in the Chamber. It makes sense, and I don't think in any way it changes the meaning of the idea of the Bill, the idea of the importers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u171	Thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Gyokov, it is good that you pay attention to § 1 and to the proposed change. You asked if your colleagues knew what a district employment commission was and did not explain. I'm taking a line so you can find out what an untenable editorial proposal you're making. Firstly, you propose that this committee constantly collect information. From whom will this permanent committee gather information? Of course, it can only collect it from the employment bureaus and the employment agency, as well as possibly request employers to provide information on how much they need to work. However, honourable Members, this proposal sounds to make it clearer for you, and in general, the amendment proposed in the Law in the following style: the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy of the National Assembly to constantly collect information to provide. Now tell me, is this in the functions of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy? In addition, these committees to the district councils are not permanent. Another point is that there you can basically see representatives in the style of the municipal council - one prominent representative of the Committee on Education, who just recently had the honor of taking the exam with 3.29 in Bulgarian language. That's pretty much the situation. I'm explaining it to you figuratively to make it clear to you what this is all about. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, I'm done. Even your proposal, which I know you are doing with good intentions, the amendments themselves are untenable. They're doomed to failure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u173	Come in for a second line, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gokov, I understand your good intentions. You yourself said that you agree with this text and with the provision of this information. I do not agree with what you said about adding and extending this text to importers, namely this regional employment commission, to collect constantly information. There is no way to collect constantly what Mr. Bajraktarov said, because they are not permanent committees. The district employment commission includes all deputy mayors, directorates of Directorates, Labour Offices, all directors of the Social Assistance and Labour Inspectorate in the area concerned, all representatives of the trade unions, the nationally represented employers' organisations. This is a composition of 20-30 people and there is no one to constantly collect this information. So your proposal is absolutely not applicable and incompatible. If we accept the texts you are proposing, they are de facto worthless and not working. I propose that all MPs support the text of the importer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Third line, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, under the Law on Administration, the composition and structure of these committees we are talking about are regulated. It is not about the employment commission of the district governor, but about a committee of the district development commission, which is slightly different. From then on, this gathering of information and providing it twice a year is said in the importers' proposal that it will take place in order and manner laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. So in these Rules, there will be an additional opportunity in which the district councils of employment to collect this information, to process it. A few moments ago, it was said by colleagues that representatives of employers, trade unions, all representatives of the state structures of the administration at regional level are entering this employment commission, so they will have the competence to make these proposals. I therefore believe that it is not necessary to further aggravate the text, because if we propose that they should constantly collect such information, someone should control it, what it means to constantly collect this information. All these details can't fit into the importers' proposal. I consider the importer's proposal correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u177	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think that in your lines to me you have shifted the focus of what I said, but I agree with you very much. My main criticism was the formal work of these employment committees, although social partners are involved in them, in the face of employers' organizations, nationally represented at the regional level, and trade unions. I believe that they must firmly commit to this gathering of information. Otherwise, it is pointless for the directorates and the labor bureaus and the employees who see these things to gather this information, to provide it to the committee, to no one else to work on it. To summarize a kind of information from all settlements in the area, send it to the Agency and return to the employment bureaus to use it. This is of no use, because the Employment Agency and the Labour Offices are aware of what they will put into the committee and there is no point in getting back at them. Indeed, the district employment committees, as Dr. Ademov said, are part of another committee. I don't know what you mean by not being permanent committees? These committees are of permanent composition, although the governor may change their composition, but they are, in a way, permanent in this regard. I do not accept that they cannot continuously, permanently gather this information and focus twice a year, summarize and send it. I will agree, moreover, that I see that there is no way to pass my proposal. So I'm going to withdraw it so it doesn't come to a vote. Now, someone took a 3.25 exam there. I don't know what the line is about. There may be such people in the district employment committees, but there are a lot of people in them who have no bearing on many of the employment issues, but this is the job of the district governor. The last sentence I'm saying is that the campaign data collection is not going to give good results. If that's what the importers think, let's keep it that way. I very much hope that the order and manner of collecting this information and providing it will be very correctly determined by the Rules for Implementation of the Employment Promotion Act in order to enable this good idea to take place and have some effect from it. Once again, I say I'll support the idea, even as it is. I withdraw my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u179	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Bayraktarov, would you like to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, it is good that my colleague Gokov raised the question, because I actually think that from the correct lines that were addressed to him, you should be aware of several things, I suppose, of Mr. Gokov himself, that this committee does not have a permanent character. Mrs. Angelova explained correctly to you who are part of this committee. From now on, I hope you understand what the futility of creating this para is. 2. We currently have special structures and institutions, as is the first priority of the Employment Agency. If any of you have bothered to see what the functions of the Employment Agency are, that is exactly what they are. It is precisely the Employment Agency that needs to collect information, to be an initiator to employers, to keep in constant contact with what my colleague Gokov rightly pointed out. Now the question arises: where is it that some committee, which has no permanent character and which basically gathers for quite other reasons, because I have been involved in such a committee, and discussing quite other problems, will have to become one moment, notice, an administrator? I ask you: how will this committee collect this information? How much is it going to cost her for this information, because she's going to have to start sending letters, getting answers, playing some kind of unqualified role for herself, which, notice, at some point, she's going to have to present to the Employment Agency, and she's going to have to provide the Labor Bureau? Now, to understand what this is all about, I'm going to give you a very simple description. This model, for example, operates in the National Health Insurance Fund. So that you can understand it, I'll give it to you visually to see what madness is in. If you change your permanent address to living, you are entitled at any time to choose a new personal doctor. Now notice what the procedure is. You are going to the central office of the National Health Insurance Fund to submit this application and from there they say: "Dear lady or sir, you will go to the other side of Sofia because the National Insurance Fund has an office there where these applications are accepted, and then they will send them to us with a courier company we will validate them and return them to them again with a courier company to come to you. "This is the text that is being applied to you today. Some data, some information that I am convinced from now on that the services of courier companies will be used to reach the institutions created anyway, will have to circulate in this way. I hope you have understood this because this once burdened the system with a great deal of expense, making it more ineffective, for the simple reason that by taking over the functions of the Employment Agency and the employment bureaus, that is, they no longer have motive and incentive to do this work. Dear Mr. Chairman, I am proposing that § 1 be dropped.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u181	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u182	It is pointless, it turns the system into a non-working and worst, load this same system with some additional costs for which we don't even have financial justification in the proposals from the importer Bill. I hope you understand what kind of insanity you'll be in if we support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u183	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, first of all, I would like to take this opportunity to wish you a happy name day from the stands and then to express a disagreement with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u185	Because of this happy Mr. Bayraktarov there will be three more minutes after that. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u186	Essentially, the difference between you and me is that I do not question the usefulness of collecting this information. It will from everywhere be useful to the Employment Agency and to the people who work at the Labour Offices, as long as it does not formalise this collection of information and is limited only to the representatives of the Labour Offices in this Commission. This Employment Commission is a small National Council for Tripartite Cooperation at local level and there social partners can tell each other their employment pains. In the case of recruitment, it will be extremely useful to the Employment Agency, because best known needs are employers' organisations followed by trade unions and only then comes the Employment Agency. There is nothing wrong with gathering such information, generalising it in order to benefit from the Employment Agency. Once again, as long as this is not formal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u187	I am, in principle, opposed to dropping out of § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u188	Yeah. Thank you. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov, does he need the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, colleague Gokov, for your congratulations. By the way, a happy name day of all the first names here in parliament is not small, and at all all all the names of the Bulgarian people. Dear colleague Gokov, I have given an example of the change of personal physician for a reason. Whoever wants it, I can show it to him in a visual way, and I've even kept my piece of paper from the central office on Street. ..of whom a very kind servant, as her wife has already had enough, she has prepared a list with the address of the street. "Enos" 12, where you have to go, and from there, as I told you, with a courier they send them to Street. "Crichim" where the NHIF headquarters are located, and then with a courier they return them to send them to you. You do understand what kind of madness this is about, don't you? The same insanity is proposed in this text for the simple reason that the Employment Agency as a function of an agency is obliged to collect this information and provide it to the employment bureaus and that is why employers... You, because I highly doubt that you have been in the real sector, but those we have been in the real sector, will hardly go looking for the District Employment Council. People know there's a... Since the district employment council doesn't even have a permanent address, you can't find anyone there at this district address. That's why I said that Mrs. Angelova specifically explained to you who came in. For example, if you take the district of Burgas, it has 13 municipalities - these are the 13 mayors. From there began various NGOs, some of which people do not even know them, start organizations in Burgas region in the field of tourism, as a Union of owners in Sunny Beach and not to mention them. Do you think that the Union of Owners will leave there some people who run a business for millions and billions, to deal, to gather information on you? It would be easier for the businessman to arrange his own operator to collect this information if he had to, instead of waiting for someone there to collect that information. It's not serious at all. Separately, I say again that it will load the system with an additional cost, which will come when I have to take a picture of it to show it what stupidity we have adopted today. If anyone can protect her, order her to protect her and explain how she's going to act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u190	I just wanted to let you know that there were students from elementary school in Burgas. [[Applause.]] They're only the fourth grade, but they're already in government, let's see how things go. We are now going to vote. Please vote on Mr. Ademov's procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of Representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, read by him. Vote 78 MPs: 76, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal to drop § 1. They voted 81 MPs: for 7, against 31, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the title of § 1, § 2 and § 3 by importer, after the Additional Report has been withdrawn and with this the proposals contained therein. We vote on the title of the Bill, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 by importer. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. The paragraphs have been adopted. Mr. Ademov, report to the next paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, no proposals have been made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, § 5, § 6, § 7, § 8, § 9 and § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u192	Madam Minister, come in for a statement. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] I'll give you the word. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] There's no such order, so... [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Here you go, Mrs. Rusinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I'd like to wish the mansion a happy day to all the estates, including Mr. Bayraktarov. [[(Laughter) Awesome.)]] I would like to mention to you, in a few words, what is the spirit of the changes to the Employment Promotion Act. For the first time in eleven years in Bulgaria there is a constant trend of decline in unemployment. At the moment, at the end of September, October, unemployment is 7.7% at an average level of 8.2%, and this is a constant trend, despite the fact that the summer season is over and we really have all the prerequisites to believe that the economic activity of the population, as a result of the overcome economic crisis, is slowly beginning to recover on the labour market. There are several changes that we have set in the Employment Promotion Act. First of all, the aim of the changes is to load the regional employment committees with regular provision twice a year of information about the needs of the business, will improve and to a large extent the investments that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy manages through the national budget and through the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." The mid-term and long-term forecasting of labour needs is done centrally by the Ministry of Labour. We believe that the joint participation of employers, trade unions, local authorities, employment services will have the opportunity to take into account much more clearly the needs of each particular region, of each particular sector, of each sector, so that investments in the qualification of the workforce are far more effective than have been made so far. The other main change is related to promoting the geographical mobility of people in Bulgaria. Usually people move towards economically stronger regions, towards the big city, so that they can find better jobs and higher incomes. With the proposed changes, we aim to encourage people who have the opportunity to find employment in other settlements, which are more than 50 km from where they live, in constant work during the first one year to be supported by an additional package with their cost of housing, overheads, kindergarten and food, so that we can give people a better opportunity to find their realization in the labour market. Currently, there are 19,000 announced jobs in the labour offices across the country - 60% of them are jobs in the private sector, and I believe that this is a measure of great interest. Thank you very much for the support and I believe that with these amendments to the Law, we will indeed be able to take into account even more positive trends in the labour market next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u194	Thank you. Mr. Bayraktarov, would you like to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Minister, for congratulating the mansion day. This does not mean, however, that I will be so flattered with regard to this Bill. [[Radio.]] It was no accident that Mr. Ademov rushed a few members... [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u196	No, no, you have no grounds for reproach. These were texts on which there were no proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, if you please don't interrupt me, at least you'll learn something right now. [[Laughter]] Even during the first reading of this Bill here, from this tribune, I warned that the Bill is preparing the spending of hundreds of millions of aimless levs of Bulgarian and European money. Even during first reading! It is for this reason that the Patriotic Front did not support this bill. As it was his turn, as unlike some people, long before taking these exercises, I was informed of what was being cooked. It's good of you to come, Madam Secretary. I would like to ask you if you have proposed to the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Galya Zaharieva, Dimitar Gechev, Venka Stoyanova and Claudia Gancheva by name, if they want to take a personal explanation and explain to the National Assembly and to the Bulgarian media, did you provide these texts under § 3, later in § 10 and § 11 and § 12? These texts, honourable Members, aimed at creating a monopoly and buying presidential elections by creating this monopoly. Interestingly, they were strangely supported by the BSP group. Strangely supported! In other words, there was some pre-negotiation that I can't know about and guess what it is, but in these texts it was given the right to employers' organizations and trade unions to be the only ones, note the only ones to conduct training for the unemployed in qualification, requalification, and it was given by the government to assign these activities to them through this Law. That is, in order to make it clear to you, according to the National Employment Action Plan, there are about 73 million, multiplied over time, becoming several hundred million each year. However, there is now also an Operational Program for Human Resources Development....you can also check this as an application of the Minister, 600 million only for qualification and requalification. Six hundred million! That's the price. If they have the valor, they'll tell you why they withdrew the lyrics because I made a huge scandal. An extraordinary Commission was challenged by them, to which these lobbyists withdrew, not to mention the raptors' texts. Once again, they've withdrawn these lobbyists, not to mention looting texts! Now they can explain why they did it. Why did the Commission vote for the European Commission and after I showed up, because I was absent from this Commission and they were in a hurry and they thought that things would go like this, suddenly this extraordinary Commission was called and they withdrew the texts? This is based on these texts, which wishes to be read here is the report, officially submitted, adopted by the Commission... I will not comment that it is unacceptable to do such things with an additional extraordinary Commission. The Rules of the National Assembly do not provide for such forms. That's a rude violation of regulations. You should have had valor, honourable colleagues, and here from this tribune you should stand up and say I withdraw my text because it is lobbyist and robs the Bulgarian people. Let's move on. Paragraph 5 provides for the subparagraph... Dear Mr. President, since I have the right for each paragraph to speak separately, such is the Rules, I have something to say, and I have editorial proposals...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u198	I mean, you're offering 35 minutes to talk, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u199	Not 35, just to finish this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u200	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u201	No, if you want, I'll say: I finished my speech under § 3 and then I'll take the floor under the next paragraph. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u202	So you'd rather finish in a minute or two, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u203	Less, even.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u204	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u205	Now I want to note that on t. 3 in § 3 it really doesn't belong in this law. But here I would like to note that GERB has made a commitment that this text will find a place in the relevant Tax Act, and before the expiry of the calendar year. If this thing doesn't happen again, I'm going to accuse you of lobbying, which is already about serving the big alcoholic bosses. Let me tell you this. [[Laughter on the right.]] It's not funny, because I know what this is about. Finally, in § 9, honourable Mr President, I would like to propose an editorial amendment, as this is the other madness that I have commented on as early as 2015, and now it is done in 2016. 3 after the words of the word "more" to be deleted, because it is insane to move unemployed to 300, 400, 500 km and to pay them the oil. I'm sorry, but thanks for all the work. Thanks for such employment! Not to tell you that, in my personal question in parliamentary control, the Minister said precisely and clearly that 300 people were affected by this amendment in 2015. Those are your words, and I suppose you won't give up on them. There are 200 more faces being repaired right now. I'm sorry, if you're making a law for 200 people, it's really not serious anymore. So if the goal really is to activate this procedure, let's keep it up to 50 kilometers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u206	Thank you. Are you suggesting that the words fall more than the words?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u208	Okay. You have the floor for lines. Are there any lines? Personal explanations? Here's your speech, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u209	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! The speaker created unnecessary tension with his incompetence of speaking once again. There's talk of lobbying texts and all sorts of other things that have nothing to do with the words he said. These texts, which were withdrawn by the MPs, were made on a proposal from all nationally represented employers' and trade unions' organisations. Each draft in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy necessarily requires opinions from the national representative organisations of employers and trade unions. The five nationally represented employers' organisations, both trade unions and the National Council on Tripartite Cooperation have stated these proposals. We have recognised them from the Parliamentary Group of GERB, and that is why we brought them in. Having understood that they did not meet proposals from the MPs from the other parliamentary groups and will create tensions here in the Chamber, an additional meeting of the Social Committee was held and these texts were rejected. At the moment they find no place in the report. So there is absolutely no drama, Mr. Bayraktarov, regarding these texts. Regarding what was said about the annulment of para. In Article 10, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 20 for persons who worked under Art. 114a of the Labour Code, i.e. working on day-to-day employment contracts, I believe that this paragraph should actually be dropped because it is not working. What's this about? Those persons working on day-to-day contracts with para. In Article 10, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 20 undertake to notify the labor centres and to declare the amount of remuneration received by the 5th of the following month in which they received that remuneration by working on day-to-day contracts. This text is absolutely not working because, first of all, the Labour Bureau is not the institution to which persons must declare their income. There is another such institution, and it is defined.. this is the NRA. I think it is quite right that this text should be rejected, as the importer suggested, and we should, and what my colleague Bajraktarov said, we can submit texts for greater control regarding the income received in relation to the day-to-day contracts and the remuneration received under them in the Law on the taxation of personal incomes. But I can't agree with the pre-spokesmanship of this high tribune to give baseless insults. I think we should refer to expertise, arguments, not idle talk and pointless talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines? Here's a personal explanation. [[GERB lines.]] No, first you mentioned it by name, then referring to his speech in a context which he had perceived as being affected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u211	Then I'll ask for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u212	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u213	Dear Mrs. Angelova, unlike you, I do not use insulting qualifications, as is your habit, because in your speech you used at least four offensive qualifications. Once again, I will keep the chivalrous tone of conduct, and from then on, you make your conclusions. You said I almost lied to the MPs. My fellow Members, I am reading you the text that has been submitted and I would remind you that I have deliberately read all the importers by name in order to give them the right to explain in person why they have imported and why they have withdrawn. We didn't get that kind of explanation. But here you are, for example, creating a new art. 60b: The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall each year assign to representatives at national level organisations of workers and employees, and to employers, organizing and conducting training under art. 58a, paragraphs 2 and 3. " I have explained to you what this is about. What do you think this is? Is it the creation of a monopoly? By the way, I'm going to tell you a secret now. There's another colleague here, just looking at him, if he has the valor, he can confirm it. As early as June, parliament was circling a person who carried the same texts. Those are the same lyrics! Now I'll tell you something else. This face promised some very tempting incentives. And since I was called incompetent, unknowing, misunderstanding, I have nevertheless completed this.. economy and organization of labor, Department of Trud and Social Protection............................. with a scientific supervisor Prof............ Lalko Dulevsky. My graduate work is in a special place at the University of National and World Economy, but it doesn't matter at all. [[Arrival in GERB.]] That doesn't matter. So who's the competent one? I just ask: Mrs. Angelova, what incentive did you take on the commitment to submit these lobbying texts?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u214	That was a personal explanation. Now you continue with the procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u215	Dear Mr. President, when I spoke, I did not make any offensive remarks and any qualifications to any of the present and non-existent Members of the National Assembly. At the same time Mrs. Angelova took the liberty of making insulting remarks and qualifications several times, and you kept silent all the time, and did not even mention to her that this was an unacceptable tone in the National Assembly. Obviously GERB likes it this way, they seem to like to hear only their opinion, only them to listen. No, we won't listen to you! Because we have our own opinion. That's the truth. And when you try to pass through your lobbying colleagues, we won't allow it. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You see, that screaming lady can't even contain her emotions! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u216	Yeah, I get it. Your remark to me is that I have not reacted to part of Mrs. Angelova's statement. Mr. Bayraktarov, I listened to both your speech and her speech. In no way am I limiting the possibility to place the questions in the Chamber harshly in the discussion. That is exactly what you have done, but in your speech there have also been reproaches to the MPs that they acted as lobbyists that they have carried out certain interests. Even I expected that one of them would take a replica or a duplicate, and they used another procedure to take statements and express their position, in which there were also some reproaches made to your argument, with which I believe that this side of the issue is over. If you on both sides do not deepen it, I do not have to make any remarks or other sanctions. If the question is so serious, let him continue in substance with what you said, who has or does not have any interest in these proposals, without leading to any qualifications that will replace exactly the most important side of this discussion. With that, I think we can close the discussion on these paragraphs. Mr. Gokov wants the floor of speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u217	Mr. Chairman, I first apologize that it will not be essentially the paragraph, but I cannot leave Mr. Bayraktarov's statement that we in our group have supported lobbying texts and so on. So, in our group, we have discussed the proposals, we have seen how we vote, and the only thing we have supported is this § 3 on State aid, because in it we have seen some rationality and settlement of matters with State aid, which are a complete mess in terms of employment programmes and European funds in them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u218	You're talking about §9, aren't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u219	Yes, from the other paragraphs we have not supported any of them, and this can be checked in the minutes of the Commission meeting, so such relations from the stands that we in the parliamentary group support lobbying texts, at least are not collegiate and correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u220	Does this mean that you want § 9 to vote separately, because otherwise we would have voted in general because there were no proposals?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u221	No, I don't have any special requests for the vote, but I would like to support...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u222	No, it's about how to support § 9, if you don't support the others? You need to back them up, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u223	No, we subsequently have a position and will express it with the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u224	After the vote. Okay. Any other speeches or lines? I won't. There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. An editorial proposal was made by Mr. Bajraktarov in § 9 to drop the words more than he did. They voted 75 MPs: 11 against 41, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on paragraphs 4 to 10 inclusive. Please vote. Vote 76 MPs: 71 against 1, abstention 4. Paragraphs 4 to 10 have been adopted. We are now moving on to the next proposals on the report. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u225	The next proposals are on the Additional Report. Proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Galya Zaharieva, Dimitar Gechev, Angel Stoyanov and Claudia Gancheva. The motion has been withdrawn. [[Replications by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u226	Then there's nothing to do. Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u227	Next proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Galya Zaharieva, Dimitar Gechev, Venka Stoyanova and Claudia Gancheva. The motion has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u228	And you continue with the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u229	Paragraph 11, actually a new paragraph. Proposal from the MPs Galya Zaharieva, Venka Stoyanova, Dimitar Gechev, Claudia Gancheva and Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to set up a new § 11 after the others have dropped out: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74o, para. 2, p. 2 words. 2 and 3 and 3 are replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u230	Are there any speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u231	There are no speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u232	I just looked at the main report that another is the contents of § 11 here. All proposals have been withdrawn in the Additional Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u233	Now we're looking at the next paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u234	Yeah, and here's § 11 in art. 60. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u235	No, no. The importer is 13, but because they dropped the previous two, it's 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u236	The content of § 11, in this report, proposes an amendment and an addition to the creation of a point. 4...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u237	Mr. Chairman, please be careful! [[Noise and laughter.]] Proposal from the MPs Galya Zaharieva, Venka Stoyanova, Dimitar Gechev, Claudia Gancheva and Svetlana Angelova: a new paragraph is being created. It is not mentioned in their proposal because it is not clear whether the previous ones will be accepted or not. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 13. Since the two paragraphs of the Additional Report have been dropped, the number of this paragraph is 11: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 74o, para. 2, p. 2 words. 2 and 3 and 3 are replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u238	What page is that you're reading? On page 1, page 1, 6, yes, because, as I look closely, the report continues to contain paragraphs 11 and 12 which...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u239	Which are withdrawn from the Additional Report. We just looked at them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u240	Procedure? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u241	They have been withdrawn in the Additional Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u242	The proposals have been withdrawn and there are still proposals from the Commission, which I now understand have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u243	Dear Mr. Chairman, as you can see, it's practically coming out of what I was talking about. You are currently guided by an official report by No 653-08-36 of 29 September 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u244	I'm only led by official reports, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u245	Only now, let me explain to you what you've done, if you want, we can do a background check on the stenogram. At the moment, honourable Members, anbloc has been voted on, according to this official report, up to § 10 including all texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u246	Four to ten.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u247	Four to ten anblocks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u248	There's no disagreement about that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u249	However, as I explained earlier, these texts include the texts that colleagues from GERB withdrew with an additional report of an extraordinary committee. I mean, right now...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u250	There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u251	How are they plugged in... No, let's get this straight. I'm sorry I'm going into a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u252	That's what I'm trying to explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u253	...because there were no additional proposals in these paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u254	That's right. That is why I am trying to explain to you that at the moment the National Assembly and the MPs, especially from the GERB group, voted on these texts on the main report of 29 September, only a few days later, if memory serves me on 4 October, there is an extraordinary committee that prepares an additional report, in which an additional report [[submits documents to the President]] In order to make it easy for you to navigate, I have noted all the texts..................................................................................................... this text,...............................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u255	Okay. Formulate the procedure so we know what we're doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u256	The procedure is because we are currently in complete confusion, I ask that a 10-minute break be given so that things can be clarified, otherwise we are in a funny situation, and you can check through the transcript that we have currently voted on texts that have been practically withdrawn with an additional report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u257	Mrs. Angelova, or Mr. Ademov, what if someone wants to make a proposal? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm ready to rest, but if there's any disagreements, we'll proceed according to the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u258	Mr. Chairman, there is no disagreement. Both reports that have been entered are absolutely correct. We just voted to § 10 included. Until § 10 including there are no withdrawn proposals, so we have voted quite rightly. By importer. Until § 10 including, these are the import texts, and there are no withdrawn proposals. The withdrawn proposals under the Additional Report shall be after § 10 for the creation of a new paragraph. Once they're withdrawn, we move on to the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u259	The problem arises. that is why, because the main report, as it is written, contains § 11, which the Commission proposes, and § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u260	This paragraph shall be withdrawn in the Additional Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u261	The additional paragraph...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u262	However, the additional report does not contain the numbering of paragraphs. It contains texts and the main report contains texts and paragraphs. Therefore, I attach importance to them, and I would like you to specifically tell § 11 and § 12 in the main report whether in this situation you propose that we vote to drop out and then move on to the next thing Mr. Ademov reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u263	Once they have withdrawn the proposals in the Additional Report, we cannot vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u264	We are in a truly unusual procedure in which there are proposals at the same time. These proposals were adopted in the main report and subsequently withdrawn. For this reason, I will put to the vote first, the withdrawal, if no meaningful discussions arise, first, to vote on paragraphs 11 and 12 on the basic report to be dropped, and then to move on to the vote on others.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u265	They're withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u266	But how are they withdrawn when they're accepted? Because proposals have been withdrawn, which the Commission has already adopted. We can vote for the removal of texts, not for the withdrawal of something that is reflected in the report as adopted. This is the second reading procedure. I therefore think it is much cleaner so that there are no doubts, firstly, that we vote on the Commission's proposals that it is now making us so that we do not support paragraphs 11 and 12 on the basic report, and then we will move on to voting on the next paragraphs. [[Noise and lines.]] What other way is there? I'm really gonna take a break so you guys can figure this out. If the Commission's leadership believes that there is no formal procedural problem, if we vote to drop these paragraphs, then we move on to the next, which will continue the discussion in substance. I'm voting... Mr. Gokov wanted a statement before that. I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u267	Dear Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. I have no claim to the manner of conduct, only there's been a complete mix-up. I am following both reports extremely closely, and I have essential things to say under § 7 and § 9. I just didn't realize we'd gone through those paragraphs and voted them out. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u268	How did you not find out? In fact, I specifically asked you if we should vote on them separately because you said that you objected to most paragraphs and there were no proposals on them and that they had to be voted on enbloc.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u269	That was your point, but I'm still telling you, I'm following the two reports carefully, but I didn't realize it was being voted on because I think we were discussing the 3 and 4 paragraphs. I'm going through the fact that I didn't understand, and I'm not going to make my speeches, but it's become such a mess that now I don't know how we're gonna get out of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u270	Speaking, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u271	Colleagues, I ask you to calm the discussion, as there is no problem at all. Firstly, since the National Assembly has accepted the hypothesis of having an Additional Report, it is entered into the Ministry, I do not wish to comment on whether the existence of an Additional Report to texts already adopted at second reading is a proper procedure or not. However, since the Government of the National Assembly accepts the fact that there is an additional report on texts already adopted, then we must also comply with the Additional Report. What's written in the Extra Report? In the Additional Report there are written proposals of the Members of the National Assembly, which in the course of the discussion in this Additional Report have been withdrawn. Once withdrawn, they are already removed from the main report as proposals from the Commission. There are no such texts. They're out. These are proposals not of an importer, but proposals of a Member of the National Assembly. Now, if you want to be perfectly calm, you can also accept the other procedure - the Members withdraw the proposals in this House, then there is no point in an additional report and there is no point in voting. Do you understand? But once the procedure has been adopted to have an additional report, we need to walk about these three texts from the main report to the additional one. Because in the main report, which troubles you, there are adopted proposals, there is a final version of the Commission, but given that these proposals by the MPs have dropped out in the Additional Report, they naturally have to drop out in the main report as well. This is my only note to this complex discussion. It is true that it is difficult to understand this situation, but this is the situation because the Members of the National Assembly, let us be frank to the fullest of the people who submitted this proposal, after scandalizing this discussion in the Commission, did not want to repeat it in the plenary. An additional report was therefore required. However, the Additional Report has now sparked, in my opinion, a pointless discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u272	I understand, Mr. Ademov. I'm reviewing the situation. Indeed, there is an additional report dated 11 October 2016, the main report is by 29 September 2016. This problem probably would not have occurred, at least with such emphasis, if the Commission had indicated that, on the basis of the applications made by the Members of the National Assembly on whose initiative the relevant paragraphs were adopted, it had voted in the Additional Report to drop those paragraphs. With regard to the proposals, a discussion and a vote has already been held. These paragraphs continue to apply in the main report. [[Replications of the National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] The additional report cannot simply refer to the fact that the MPs have withdrawn accepted proposals. The additional report may revise the Commission's first report and say that it rejects the texts adopted and makes a second... [[Replications of the National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] I therefore propose that we really vote on the removal of paragraphs 11 and 12 in the main report and then we continue with the texts. [[Noise and lines.]] Is there any objection, because otherwise, if you do not clarify clearly what you are doing, I will suspend the sitting and give you the opportunity to hold another meeting in the Commission? [[Noise and lines.]] Do you have a procedure? First Mrs. Angelova, then Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Heckling]] This is not how further reports are made and this is what you tell your experts because you cannot withdraw texts adopted by the Commission. Only the Commission can revise these texts. [[Noise and lines.]] The administration simply registered that something was imported by MPs. It is hardly possible for the Office to review the texts in terms of content. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u273	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In order to reduce the tension, my suggestion is this: to read § 11, § 12, which we have withdrawn with the Additional Report, and in this House we, colleagues, will confirm that we are withdrawing the texts. That's my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u274	Look, your proposal doesn't change the situation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u275	Okay, if you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u276	I have told you that paragraphs 11 and 12 proposed by the Commission continue to exist in the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u277	Yes, and we will withdraw them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u278	You and withdrawing them does not change the content of the report, so I said that it is easiest to vote to drop these paragraphs and not to withdraw something that already exists here. Mr. Bayraktarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u279	However, the management of the National Assembly should have the same practice on the bills. That's in agreement with the Legal Department. Do you understand? I didn't make that up. I was against an additional report at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u280	Mr. Chairman, don't be angry with Dr. Ademov because he didn't lead this Commission. He wasn't there. Unfortunately, we warned ahead of time that this mess would happen. I think it is the right proposal, which corresponds somewhat to that of Mrs. Angelova, only we will have to come back from § 3. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u281	No, we're not going back to vote. Tell me what you're offering from now on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u282	Listen, because otherwise you've already accepted something that the coworkers have officially withdrawn. [[Heckling]] Paragraph 3 in the Additional Report shall be withdrawn by colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u283	Yes, and the text of the importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u284	No, the text of the importer has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u285	He's accepted, he's accepted! I remember what we voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u286	Now, I'm telling you! That's why I told you. You see, even you don't remember.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u287	No, I remember very well, so don't tell me things that... I speak for myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u288	I will request the transcript and you will understand that you have accepted § 3 on a report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u289	That's not true. Don't suggest. I paid very good attention and saw this contradiction.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u290	Okay. Look, I'm not suggesting anything. I'm trying to be useful to you because, as you understand, it's not your fault that I'm not blaming you because it's the way the situation is created that there's no one who's even inside of it that doesn't go wrong. And that's why I warned you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u291	However, paragraph 3 shall be voted on by importer. That's the condition.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u292	You will then see for yourself, we will return the transcript, § 3 has been voted on on the Commission's report. And he's voted on this report. I'm trying to help you, believe me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u293	Okay, but, Mr. Bayraktarov, I remember then referring to the withdrawal of the proposal of the importers and the only vote under § 3 is not on the Additional Report, but on the proposal of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u294	Let's not argue. It doesn't matter, so I asked for a break, and then you suggested that anbloc be voted on a few... [[Noise and lines.]] That's why I suggested that there be a break so that we could clarify things and avoid all this cacophony, you wouldn't listen to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u295	Okay. Now I'm adjourned. You'll have plenty of time to clear this up by tomorrow, as they remain... [[Loud noise, lines and calls.]] You think in 10 minutes you'll be able to solve this problem? Okay. [[Noise and lines.]] I'll give you 15 minutes off. Mr. Ivanov, does this contradict your procedure? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After a long effort... I mean, Mr. Chairman, you're absolutely right. Once the Commission has adopted a decision, the only way to cancel is to vote again. It cannot be downloaded in this way at second reading, so I propose that the two paragraphs of the National Assembly reject them and move forward. There's nothing to argue about.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-26.u297	Thank you for sharing that opinion. The rest offer's still on, isn't it? Holiday until 13.50, because it was requested by MPs from the Parliamentary Group of GERB. [[Noise and lines.]] And I, as I told you, since we are in the last hour of the sitting, do not force the Rules. I'm adjourned. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00. I ask the Committee on Labour and Social Policy to overcome these disagreements and to continue then with the vote. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
