ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. I offer to your attention the National Assembly's Work Programme for the period 28 September 2016: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law on the provision of assistance for payment of debts to the National Electricity Company. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. Adopted in the first vote on 21 September 2016. 2. Draft Law on the ratification of the Level of Service Agreement between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco Products and Food Safety and Xavier Pratts Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Director-General of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kusheva, of the other part, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and herbal products for smoking and the Agreement on the level of service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Food Safety and Xavier Prats Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Minister of Economy Bojidar Lukarski, of the other part, for the storage of data on electronic cigarettes and refill containers. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016. 3. Draft Law on the ratification of the Bilateral Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Secretariat of the European Union initiative for participation in the Joint Programme. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016. 4. Second vote on the bill implementing measures against market abuse of financial instruments. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 July 2016. Adopted in the first vote on 9 September 2016. 5. First vote on the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2016. 6. First vote on Bills amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importers are Anna Alexandrova, Svilen Ivanov and Danail Kirilov on 28 July 2015; Danail Kirilov, Petar Slavov, Filip Popov, Chavdar Georgiev, Emil Dimitrov, Kiril Tsochev, Mariana Todorova, Lachezar Nikiforov, Yanko Yankov and Stanislav Anastasov on 7 July 2016. We propose that this be the first item for Thursday, 29 September 2016. 7. Second vote on the Independent Financial Audit Bill. Importer was the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. He was accepted in the first vote on 14 July 2016. 8. Second vote on the Bill of Clothing, concealing or hiding the face. Importers are Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 20 April 2016. He was accepted at the first vote on 15 June 2016. We propose that this be point one for Friday, September 30, 2016. 9. Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including financial statement for the months January "December 2015. Importer is the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency on 9 June 2016. 10. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote, honourable Members. They voted 152 MPs: 113, against 12, abstention 27. The National Assembly's work programme for the period 28 September 2016 has been adopted. You have a proposal, Mr. Kardzhaliev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u2	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We propose that the item that is fixed as the first for Friday, namely the Clothing Bill, which covers or partially covers the person, be removed from the agenda. There's a few arguments about that. Firstly, in an upcoming presidential campaign, such laws, which lead to discrimination of religious nature and unhealthy ambitions of xenophobic forces in the National Assembly to use such arguments, do not seem appropriate. Secondly, we also have this in mind that Bulgaria is only the third country in the world that will adopt such a law. The first two are Belgium and France and some provinces of Germany. We do not see what it imposes, especially not having an entity for this bill, which is not using anyone, why should we be this country? Thirdly, I believe that every legislative body of a state must protect its population from possible rematchist and edifying ambitions of people who deviantly interpret this type of legislation as discrimination, as a oppression of religious freedoms and with this bill I believe that Bulgarian society will be vitiated. Please, let us vote to remove this item from the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Kardzhaliev. A reverse opinion? Here you are.. People's representative Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Kardzhaliev, if you wouldn't like this topic to be used for election purposes, you just shouldn't be putting it up right now. I can assure you that on Friday at 2:00 p.m. you will have forgotten that the point has been accepted and the matter will be over. This point shouldn't bother you so much first, because you are not expressing in any way, at least you are parading that you do not reflect or defend the religious orientations of your constituents. This is the work of the Chief Mufti, which, as far as I have information, has no objection to this matter, so do not act more righteous than the hodja?... Who's their biggest? Maybe from Allah. Yes, don't be more righteous! [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] That's it. I also recommend that you enrich your information with regard to the countries where these ferrets, burkas and all sorts of rags are already banned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u5	Please, please! More respectful of symbols of other religions. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u6	So the question is not essential at all. On Friday, I say, by noon somewhere we'll have forgotten it all, so I wish you a successful activity by Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u7	Thank you. We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Tuncher Kardzhaliev to drop the item. Eight on the agenda. They voted 137 MPs: 19 against 69, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. For procedure, please, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u8	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I am making a procedural proposal for a shift on the agenda: the first item scheduled for today to become the first item for tomorrow. The reasons for this proposal are the promise of the energy minister yesterday, which he gave after the request of some of the Reformation Bloc colleagues, the decision of the Arbitration Court to be granted so that we can get acquainted with it in detail and it is logical to read this decision before going to vote on the proposal of the Council of Ministers at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u9	I'm sorry, just to remind you that it was also available yesterday, so whoever had a wish could have met him. [[Noise and lines.]] Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Antony Trenchev. [[Noise and lines.]] People's representative Antony Trenchev made a proposal to move the first item of today for tomorrow. Vote 148 MPs: 53, against 62, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u10	Colleagues, I'm proposing a re-vote. I'm sorry, with all due respect to Mr. Chairman, yesterday's decision was not available. Colleagues can testify to that. It makes sense to read something before we support it at second reading, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u11	Okay, I'm not gonna take attitude and argue. Whatever. It's a re-vote. They voted 149 MPs: 53, against 59, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. Proposal for inclusion in the agenda in accordance with art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first proposal is from the National Representative Velizar Enchev: "On the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I submit a proposal for inclusion of a point in the Programme of a National Assembly meeting on 28 September 2016. Project for a declaration on the occasion of the 13th anniversary of the involvement of the Republic of Bulgaria in the war against Iraq. You have the floor, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am proposing for the third time to accept such a declaration with full awareness that you will reject it. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u13	Excuse me, Mr. Enchev. Can I get some order in the hall? To ask the Members of the National Assembly to take your seats and to remain silent! Excuse me, Mr. Enchev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! This is the third time I've made this proposal with full awareness that you're going to reject it. The specific reason to do so is the open letter to the Bulgarian Parliament of four worthy MPs from the 39th National Assembly, who were the only ones in this Chamber voted on 29 May 2003 against sending a Bulgarian military contingent to Iraq. They're prof. Andrey Pantev, Alexander Paunov, Luben Petrov and Ognian Saparev. In their open letter to the parliament, they insist that this declaration be accepted and not rejected, I quote, with such striking ease, such as striking ease and overwhelming unanimity before 13 years. The 39th National Assembly adopted an act that disgraced Bulgaria, overstepped international law and entered into a colony with the morals of the world community. This declaration is very brief. I propose that the National Assembly condemn the decision of the 39th National Assembly for sending a military contingent to Iraq, because this act of legislative and executive power is a serious political mistake that overthrew international law and dragged our country into an unjust war and which is most important.... this intervention in 2003, in which Bulgaria is actively involved, thanks to the 39th Parliament, has triggered destructive processes in Iraq and Syria, led to the creation of an Islamic state, against which today the civilized world is fighting with an extraordinary success and because of which the Islamic State of Europe was immersed in blood. Therefore, I propose that the 43rd National Assembly declare that, in its foreign policy actions, it will strictly respect the principles of international law and will not allow the executive power to act as the then government of Simeon Saxe-Coburg, who overrun the sovereignty of the independent states and led to these cataclysms in the Middle East. Thank you for your attention. I rely on your conscience, but not this conscience, which in the 39th National Assembly led to this criminal act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Please vote on a proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev for inclusion as a item on the agenda. They voted 114 MPs: 19 against 64, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We also have a second proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Nino, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. It is as follows: "On the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that as a point on the agenda of the National Assembly for the period 28 September 2016, a draft decision to repeal a decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012 on the termination of the construction of a nuclear plant on the site of Belene. The entry number is 654-01-69 from 13 July 2016 with importers Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. You have the floor, Mr. Stoinev, to present the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u16	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! We are submitting a proposal from BSP left Bulgaria to repeal the decision of the National Assembly of 29 March 2012 on the termination of the construction of a nuclear plant on the site of Belene. Ladies and gentlemen, so far, if the loan is voted on today, we will spend approximately 3 billion. lv. for the Belene project, but the big question is whether we are willing to develop nuclear energy or not, because in the Balkans we remain the only country that does not invest in electricity. If we are going to develop nuclear energy, the government clearly, categorically, must come out and say so. If we're not going to develop the energy, say so too. If this country is going to develop and use photovoltaic electricity, from wind fins, it is also an option, only we at BSP are categorically against it. And by observing, the specialists know that for the next 15-20 years, we, ladies and gentlemen, are going to close base capacity. The next 20 years are expected to close approximately three thousand megawatts of base capacity. We started with TPP Varna. Other themes are coming, not to mention which ones, but it is clear to everyone that sometimes the state closes its eyes due to a social point of view, but some capacities need to be closed. So the big question is, what are we doing here? Of course, if you accept our proposal to abolish this ban, of course the project needs to be restructuring. Of course you have to look for an investor. Of course this will not happen tomorrow, but in the end we must also help the government in the negotiations, because there is no way to look for an investor when there is a ban from the National Assembly. There is therefore nothing to prevent this item from getting on the agenda, from falling off the ban, and from now on, let us decide what we are doing. That you have to pay for it, but in the end we can't pay and we don't know what will be done from now on. Therefore, our call is to include the item on the agenda, to consider it. Then there's a first point that relates precisely to this point. Exactly, to have a sequence. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. We vote. They voted 132 MPs: for 48, against 60, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. Messages: - on 21 September 2016 a draft decision was adopted to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importers are Valeri Simeonov, Krasimir Karakachanov and Volen Siderov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs; - on 26 September 2016 a Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on Political Parties with Importer Velizar Enchev was adopted. It has been allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs; - on 26 September 2016, a Draft Law for the ratification of the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and for the adoption of a declaration under Article 9 (1) of the Agreements was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The lead committee to which it is assigned shall be the Committee on Environment and Water. The accompanying committee shall be the Committee on Foreign Policy; - On 26 September 2016, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Development Bank Act with an importer of the Council of Ministers was adopted. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The Committee on Budget and Finance shall be attached; - on 27 September 2016 a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Judicial Contractors with an importer of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev was adopted. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government; - On 27 September 2016 a draft declaration of the Forty-third National Assembly against the European project for permanent settlement of refugees from the Middle East and Africa in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria was received. Importer is the People's Representative Velizar Enchev. It is allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government; - an updated annual audit programme of the Court of Auditors for 2016. The updated annual programme has been sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and is available to the Members of the National Assembly on 21 September 2016. We're done texting. We move on to the first item on the agenda, namely: THE SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR AID FOR THE SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE ELECTRICAL COMPANIES. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce to you the President of the Commission the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova. The bill was filed under No 602-01-52 in the National Assembly's Law and submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for the first procedure in the hall to be admitted to Mr. Petar Iliev, Executive Director of NEK, Mr. Petyo Ivanov, Executive Director of Bulgarian Energy Holding, Zhecho Stankov, Deputy Minister, and Nikolay Nikolov, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u19	We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Menda Stoyanova. Vote 113 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u20	Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the provision of assistance for payment of debts to the National Electricity Company, No 602-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. The second vote. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Proposal of the National Representative Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov the name of the Law is amended as follows: The aid for the payment of part of the debts of the National Electricity Company (National Electricity Company) was granted due to the unjustified costs of the project. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u21	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 30, against 22, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Voted 101 MPs: 89, none, abstention 12. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u22	Art. 1 supposition of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Tasco Ermenkov, Chavdar Georgiev, Angel Naydenov, Christian Vigenin, Georgi Bozhinov, Georgi Svilenski and Stoyan Mirchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1, at the end of the provision, after the abbreviation 2. The creation of para. 3: The National Electricity Company is returning the aid under para. 1 within 15 years from receipt. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u23	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For the first time in Euro-Atlantic practice, a State aid bill is proposed, which does not specify the number of aid. I don't know if there's a miracle like that in Africa! This really is an empty check! In no way should the Bulgarian Parliament support state aid by not mentioning the amount of aid and from this point on we can conclude what will be the effect on public finances. Moreover, there is a ruling of the Court of Arbitration, which has precisely determined when the principal and penalty interest are paid, the amount is indeed 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes Colleagues, the logical question arises: if this is the maximum amount by the end of the year, we propose that the amount be up to 1 billion by the end of the year. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, this does not prevent that if we achieve a reduction in interest rates, the amount that we will actually pay will be less. Secondly, there is a question we want the government and its representative to answer. Opening clamp... [[Mister Temenuzhka Petkova and the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Nayden Zelenogorski are talking.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u25	Mr. Chairman, pay attention. If I could just have a little more respect.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u26	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u27	There's a logical contradiction. On the one hand, yesterday the Budget Emergency Commission is being convened, today we are joining the first item on the agenda. He's racing to pass the law. Very good. You don't really want a number because it could be more than 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes Why? If you don't pay next year, two or three... Someone has to explain to the Bulgarian people who you're lying to.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u28	A little respect!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u29	Mr. Zelenogorski! Excuse me, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Zelenogorski, Mrs. Stoyanova, Mrs. Minister! I'm asking for order in this room. Excuse me, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u30	Don't be angry. After 16 billion signed with an empty check, why 1 billion. 270 million not to sign.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u31	Please continue on the subject, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u32	Part two. Mrs. Petkova, I will repeat for you: we are in a hurry to sign the Bill to fit in with this. [[Noise, lines, cheers.]] At the same time, you want the Bill not to mention a larger amount. Why? So you can pay in five years, when we're paying $10 million. lv. a month's penalty interest? Answer that question. Secondly, colleagues, we are proposing a deadline. Again in Euro-Atlantic, as we like to say, financial and banking practice, when borrowing, colleagues, there is a deadline. There's no deadline here. I made a calculation. Since there is no deadline, can NEK pay you a dollar a year? Maybe. Guys, do you know how many years they're gonna pay back the loan? Three and a half million years from now. Divide 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. at 365 days, on the Tragedy! There's no loan you want to sign without a loan schedule. I am officially warning you, of course, also recorded in Parliament's minutes: there is no such committee in Africa! Not only the European Commission, but what kind of appeal, what law will we ask of them? Let's tell them what amount we don't know, the amount is not mentioned in the Law. For what period do you provide the aid to the State company NEK? Well, these days, around the New Year's Eve, three million and twenty-five. This notification will be returned from Brussels. Some people will have to answer to specialized institutions for lending to the Bulgarian people in hundreds of millions. We will not support the Bill unless the specific amount is specified by decision of the Court of Arbitration and the time limits under which the aid is granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u33	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't think I can add anything more substantial in terms of financials than what prof. Gechev said. However, I will try to address the reason of the National Assembly and ask you: when you have something to pay, do you ask how much you have to pay and what you pay it for? Or you sit somewhere and you say, "Here's your credit card, is it going to be a debit card, is it going to be your wallet, take as much as you need, and eventually you can pay me back, but you may not pay me back because I didn't write it down, I didn't see it coming." It's about domestic needs. Can you imagine when it comes to billions in the budget?! Are billions we don't know gonna be a billion dollars, are there gonna be two? Moreover, yesterday in one of the interviews that Minister Petkova gave ended with not being convinced that this will be the final amount. So it's supposed to be 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the Supposedly there might be some other payment, which is why you don't want to put a ceiling. We suggest that the amount is not 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the 270 million. BGN, and any amount down that the government is able to achieve. Can we, as MPs, give permission to the government to sign a contract with the National Electricity Company, that is, Minister Petkova with the NEK chief, and in the contract we have not given the parameters of this contract? They can sign tomorrow that they will be granted State aid amounting to 4 billion. lv. What's gonna stop them? We've given carte blanche. Can we have no idea when and how that money will come back? I am convinced that the European Commission will not give you a notification for many reasons, including that there are no parameters, that this compensation may ultimately prove to be a grant, given the rate of return of money and their depreciation. Suddenly it might turn out that we're going to pay back less money than we took. We did not want to enter into an additional dialogue, but we made a proposal to make this aid somewhat normal adopted by the European Commission, and some percentage had to be laid down, but we missed this. I wonder why we're doing this? How are we going to stand in front of our constituents tomorrow and what are we going to tell them? The Bulgarian Parliament voted on some money that must be given to NEK, but we do not know how much it will be and we do not know what this is another topic, we talked about it during first reading. Colleagues, please accept this proposal very much. It does not contradict the spirit of the Law. On the contrary, it makes it a law, and it does not make it a line of wishful thinking sentences that do not have any parameters in terms of amount until return time. Otherwise we become accomplices to looting the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria without clear purpose, without clear parameters and without knowing when and how that money will be returned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Ermenkov, I'm taking this line to answer to you. You asked: When you have something to pay, do you ask what it is, what it is, how the reason for payment came about? We're asking! Most of our colleagues ask: when someone wants us to pay something, why does he want it? On what grounds? Is there any reason to pay? Perhaps we ask because we are not socialists and because, when we are talking about both the state and the state property, this question still needs to be asked as we ask it about our personal finances. We really ask why we should pay for this arbitration decision, how did this arbitration decision come about in the first place? Unfortunately, some of the answers are already seen in the reasons and also in the public discussion, and we understand that in fact, including from your participation yesterday in the referendum, what you said that under the BSP was once signed this in question Additional Agreement to Agreement 5 and so on, and this advance was paid without a contract. That is why we are paying right now and that is why all Bulgarian citizens will pay. It doesn't suit you to mind, since you're responsible on the left for this whole thing, I don't know what to call it, undoubtedly a very difficult situation, for this whole mess. Once you've caused the disease of the organism, you're almost not going to give him any sense of how to treat it. I suggest you keep your mouth shut. I think it's more correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u37	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, we don't sign an empty check. An empty check you signed in 2006. The agreement is completely empty, without a numeral, without a figure inside this Agreement, on the basis of which, in violation of the Bulgarian laws, in violation of the procedure you have carried out, you have concluded this Agreement. An empty check you signed in November 2008 just a few months before the elections and on this empty check you transferred the advance for the equipment in question. You ordered it without having a contract, without having agreed funding, without holding the contract, which should have been terminated a long time ago since it was broken. In violation of all Bulgarian laws! We don't sign an empty check. In this bill, we say that the amount of aid is the amount recorded as an amount in the arbitration case. And there is clearly written down how much the amount is awarded and how much the interest will be charged to this amount for each overdue day. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u39	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u40	So don't from this tribune transfer the problem from the sick one to the healthy head. The problem is looking for it in the years 2006 - 2008 and the decisions made by your energy ministers and your executives of NEK.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u41	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Now I understand why colleagues from the Reformation Block want to read the Court of Arbitration's ruling. Because they are clearly unaware of the reasons for this verdict. Colleagues, you will read that the verdict is that the project has been stopped, not started. [[Heckling]] Colleagues from GERB, the Bulgarian Socialist Party and its government signed five agreements with Mr. Stanishev. You colleagues, from 2009 until 20012 signed nine and paid 390 million for an alleged suspension project, so don't talk nonsense! What you're doing right now is trying to wipe yourself with used toilet paper and you don't get any more dirty.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u43	Please, for a more respectful attitude towards the MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u44	Because you're the ones who stopped the project, which is why we're now paying the 400 million for the reactors themselves, and 212 million interest rates from 2009 to today. You're the ones who couldn't even stop a project like people! You are the ones who spoke from 2009 to 2011: our project is desperately needed. Suddenly, in 2012, you said: "It is not. Don't try to blame us, which is all yours! You will bear the consequences. History will condemn you, not me. The people will condemn you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal from the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Tasco Ermenkov, Chavdar Georgiev, Angel Naydenov, Christian Vigenin, Georgi Bojinov, Georgi Svilenski and Stoyan Mirchev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 44, against 58, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Revoting the People's Representative Rumen Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u46	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to reschedule, as some of my fellow Members have not understood an important detail: granting State aid without a deadline means a gift. There's no such loan in the world! Please change your mind. And the European Commission will punish us, and the people will ask us how we voted. [[Replying and shouting.]] I repeat, before the vote, state aid without time limit is a state gift to NEK. Be careful what you vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u47	Thank you, Professor Gechev. It's a re-vote. Vote 117 MPs: 45, against 58, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 1 supported by the Commission. We vote on the Commission's text of the importer for art. 1. Vote 107 MPs: 86 against 11, abstention 10. Article 1 by importer has been accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u48	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! I voted against the text proposed by the majority, with full awareness that this is a meaningless text. Contrary to Mrs. Stoyanova's assurances, you really signed an empty check and gave it to the Council of Ministers. This Law is completely meaningless and meaningless if there are no basic conditions under which the Council of Ministers will decide. These are the conditions: the amount of the amount, the period of its return and what will be the way. Then why do we accept this Law? This Law was supposed to be a decision of the National Assembly which simply obliged the Council of Ministers to settle with an additional agreement providing some amount to NEC in order to fulfil its obligations under the judgment of arbitration. From now on, the Law is absolutely useless and I will vote consciously against any text because this Law makes no sense. You just blew it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u49	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u50	Under art. 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Tasco Ermenkov, Chavdar Georgiev, Angel Naydenov, Christian Vigenin, Georgi Bozhinov, Georgi Svilenski, Stoyan Mirchev - in art. 2 at the beginning, the word "Conditions" is replaced by "Additional Terms." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Valeri Simeonov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2, at the end of the sentence first, after the words the Council of Ministers shall be commaed and the same shall necessarily include that the payment of the sums awarded in Arbitration case No ICC case 18086 /GZ/MHM will take place after an obligation by the manufacturer, the transfer of the nuclear equipment under that arbitration decision to be carried out together with the overall technical and design documentation of the facilities, and an irrevocable and unconditional commitment to the provision of copyright and technical supervision by the manufacturer in the future, regardless of the future decisions of Bulgaria to use the equipment. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The persons referred to in paragraph 2 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 1 take all legal and factual actions to protect the state interest, including by carrying out independent expertise on the equipment provided in connection with the case under art. 1, its compliance with the order of "NEK" AD, its fitness and lack of lack of availability. In the case of non-compliances found, as well as in the case of incomplete assembly and/or incomplete production, the persons referred to in the preceding sentence should claim compensation for the period of delay and/or damage suffered, including by contesting the interest charged for late payment. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u51	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u52	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the first issue that is important and concerns the proposal that we have made with colleague Petar Slavov is that it is not right to pay equipment for which we do not have a check of the state of the second reactor to what extent it has been produced, whether international requirements have been met, whether the agreements that have been signed previously have been met. That is why we have written a similar text that it is appropriate that representatives of Bulgaria go first to follow what happens to the production of the second reactor, whether the Russian side correctly reflected the degree of readiness and only then to talk about payment. Did you see anyone pay without seeing the manufactured reactor I'm talking about? Come on, there's some forensics for the first one. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Would you pay for something none of you have ever seen? For this reason, we also insist that this text be voted on and adopted, and we also support the proposal of colleague Valeri Simeonov, which is in a similar direction. It also insists that all documentation be provided, which is in the same sense. Next, Madam Minister, for us from the Reformation Block, it is crucial with this payment that is being made now, where are we going, which direction is it? Since the BSP wants one direction, they still want to build a nuclear power plant, even though Bulgaria uses 50% of the production capacity, even though the life of the V and VI block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" can be extended for another 30 years. They, the people, want to build a nuclear plant. We have one concern that there are also people in GERB who want to build a nuclear plant. So for us the key question, in order to be able to support it from now on, is to understand, if the objective is to sell this equipment to a third party, this is the way to minimize the damage, we will support it. We limit the damage, we limit the damage. It's clear who ordered the reactors. Yesterday, the BSP admitted that this was their idea, their initiative, their work, and these billions we have to put at their expense. But the point is that if you continue from here to construction, from 2.5 billion costs will rise to 20, and these imaginary investors colleagues from BSP are looking for them for the last 10-15 years. There was only one who gave up, and for Belene there were no willing ones. It remains the only option for someone to make an investor out of an investment plan. I guess that leaves us with the only option. So it is key for us to know what we are doing and what talks have been held with the Russians so far. Because by paying right now, we have to negotiate with them that they will assist us in the sale of this equipment. Why else would we pay them? What's the point of paying if we don't have this arrangement with them from now on? As it became clear to the Budget Committee yesterday, we're paying 90% of the second reactor. That is, there will be a next payment and perhaps the parliament will vote another similar bill, and we do not even know what the remaining 10% we will pay them for. It is possible that the claims of the Russian side will suddenly grow very much and that 10% will be much more expensive than the arithmetic account one tenth of the price of the second reactor. Until we have clarified all these questions, whether it is wise to pay until we have a commitment to the Russian side that this equipment will be sold with their cooperation somewhere in the world, it is not wise for us to take these actions. We are aware that this concludes that the problem starts with the BSP government. There's no doubt about it. The point is now that the solution is not the continuation of the same path. The solution is also the firm commitment to sell this equipment. Bulgaria does not need a new nuclear power plant for many reasons, including seismological risk, including 20 billion. lv. I don't have any money. Once and for all, you have to put an end to this bottomless pit that swallows money. This is what the BSP has been doing over the years. They spend 1 billion; they resume it again, they spend 1 billion again, and so we bring the bill up to 2.5 billion. This must be put to an end and the end can only be one sale of this equipment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? People's representative Dragomir Stoynev, then the people's representative Alexander Nenkov, and the third replica of the people's representative Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u54	Dear Mr. Dimitrov! Mr. Dimitrov, look at me! Who sold the refinery, Neftohim, for 170 million. the dollar when the same refinery at 50% of the fees were sold for 600 million. The dollar in Nish? Who signed the accession contracts when we closed the I and II reactor and then III and IV? Who's to blame for both U.S. power plants? You have a very short memory. Because when you manage, you only close, and when we want to do something constructive, because in Bulgarian energy there is absolutely no investment, you are satisfied because you want Bulgaria to import electricity instead of export.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u55	Mr. Stoinev, we are discussing a concrete solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u56	It's the only thing that's ever been in your management. There's always been degradation, there's always selling and closing. We sold Balkan for a dollar and then we were sentenced for another 30 million. Is this the policy you want to show us and follow? On the contrary, we want the opposite! That is why GERB after us signed nine more agreements because this work had to continue. Unfortunately, your foreign worship only leads to the destruction of the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian energy. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u57	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Second line. "The People's Representative Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Dimitrov, with all due respect, you speculate little with the information, as you say, and it is understandable to be concerned from the point of view that when we pay something, we need to find out what we pay. It was very clear from the Minister of Energy in the last few days.. even after the decision was issued in Geneva the Bulgarian country has repeatedly already sent two letters to the other side. We expect an answer from them. With today's decision, we are not paying the money, but giving the Council of Ministers the opportunity and specifically to the Minister of Energy to have the opportunity to negotiate from now on, to specify the details of how we will get this equipment, at what stage it was produced, how far the second reactor has reached. So let us not speculate, move within the objective and say that with today's decision we are actually untie the hands of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Energy to conduct the negotiations. From now on, the procedure and responsibility will, of course, fall to them. But with this Decision today, we do not automatically transfer money to the Atomstroyexport.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u59	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Third line. "The People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u60	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am making Mr. Dimitrov's line regarding speculation whether or not it is necessary. Mr. Dimitrov, I will not talk to you about Bulgarian or any other research. 2013 at the moment when the Single European Energy Market started to be created, the European Commission has developed a model of the European energy market, we will do it in English, the mixture of German, as you want, in which a model, not in the Bulgarian one, in the European Commission, thanks to which the forecasts for the development of energy in each country are made and policies are bet on, with minimum growth of gross domestic product 2% set, you see how pessimistic it is, with the maximum use of your favorite energy efficiency policy, maximum use will be increased by 2025 in Bulgaria. It will increase electricity consumption by 15 billion. Kilowatt hours of electricity. At the same time, until the same year, 7 billion. 250 million. Kilowatt hours of electricity will be produced less because coal plants have come out. I'm asking Mr. Dimitrov, what are you going to use to close this 23 billion scissors? Kilowatt hours equal to about 3,000 megawatts of installed power with wind or are you going to call Mr. Kostov to make another price plant at which we now pay US power plants? So don't speculate! Not me, not the Bulgarian Socialist Party, not anyone else, the European Commission has developed this model. Because you very much like to follow the policy of the European Commission, be so kind and where you do not get rid of it, also take into account what is written there. Otherwise, everything else is from the evil one and protects those of you who are already tired of listening to them, our teeth hurt every time you come out here to repeat with a tone of mentor something that is neither true nor true and, I would say, is against the interests of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Dimitrov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues of BSP, I'm tired of listening to you too, but that's not the problem. The problem is that your actions cost us billions. That's the whole problem. You know, if any of us from the Reformation Bloc had ordered two reactors without a contract, we'd have been shot dead by now. Ordering two reactors, honourable colleagues, and not having a signed contract, not having secured funding, excuse me, is an absolute national betrayal. Total national betrayal! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] By the way, Madam Minister, I have always acknowledged your efforts for those reports of the financial inspection, but now as a minister you must continue your work and clarify who has ordered the National Electric Company (NEC) to order this equipment. It may have been an oral order, it may have been a written order, it may have been hidden afterwards, but this must be clarified. Perhaps you can tell me that this should be the action of the judicial authorities, of the competent judicial authorities, but you, as a minister, can continue your work in this regard. With regard to Belene. This year there will be about 3% growth in the economy and electricity consumption is falling by 2%. The potential for energy efficiency, honourable Members, is enormous. Similar mastodons, such as Belene, have had their time, dear colleagues. The future is small, flexible capacities inside the city so that there are no transmission costs and distribution costs lower. This is the future. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] And given that for 30 years ahead we have a V and VI block of "Kozloduy" and for 30 years ahead we have provided the underlying capacities, it would be an extremely big mistake to build "Belene" and that is exactly what BSP wants and on this topic, honourable colleagues, GERB does not have a strong position, Mr. Nenkov. GERB says: maybe so, maybe BSP, we can do the other one. That's what you say. That's why we're skeptical right now, and we're worried about what's gonna happen. Next, honourable Members, we should not be looking for the arbitration ruling, but it should have been submitted to a committee so that there would not be a single MP voting today without knowing what the specific texts are. Such votes, on the basis of an arbitration decision that no one has read, I ask you in the Chamber: if someone has read it, raise your hand? I hope only Mrs. Petkova has read it. How do you vote today on this bill when none of you have read the arbitration ruling? Are there at least one of you guys? I seriously doubt it. Is this serious?! Finally, our position with regard to "Belene" has never hesitated. We were against it from the first moment, and from the first moment we were right. The people of BSP argued that without the "Belene" 2010 there would be electricity mode. Was there, uh, coworkers? There wasn't, because there's a huge surplus of production capacity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u63	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Is there any other statements under art. Two? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposals. The first is the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Tasco Ermenkov, Chavdar Georgiev, Angel Naydenov, Christian Vigenin, Georgi Bozhinov, Georgi Svilenski, Stoyan Mirchev. Please vote on the proposal made. They voted 93 MPs: for 31, against 47, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov, which is not supported by the Commission. I'm putting it to the vote. 90 MPs voted: 16 against 33, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 98 MPs: 16 against 38, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text proposed by the Commission for art. 2. They voted 99 MPs: 81, against 1, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova, report to Art. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u64	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4. 'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. "Paragraph" is the only one. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraph only of the Final provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u65	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u66	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's interesting that under art. 3 no proposals have been made. This is one of the texts that raises questions, and I want to ask these questions. On the one hand, you are in a hurry to adopt the Bill and you have even foreseen that it has been effective since the day of its vote. At the same time, in art. 3 You say that the aid for which it is granted will be eligible only after a decision of the European Commission. Here comes the question: what are your real goals and what are the next steps? Perhaps you would like to provide an argument to the European Commission that the Bulgarian Parliament has adopted a law and this would increase the burden of the request for authorisation of the aid. The European Commission, however, is generally not interested in the form in which individual countries provide their opinions and requests...................... on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, the Parliament, from the point of view of some public legitimacy. It is not irrelevant that Parliament is involved and gives this mandate. This is not in itself a reason for the European Commission to authorise or refuse the State aid requested. In my opinion, you should have acted more flexiblely and recorded in the previous texts of the Law that this aid constitutes a loan, that is, it is not a grant of the National Electricity Company, but it is a temporary aid, where the National Electricity Company will recover entirely or substantially the funds it receives from the State. You didn't write in the Law that it was a loan. This implies that you do not use it by means of the texts of the Law, but I think that you would have had stronger arguments before the European Commission if you stressed this fact, including with the appropriate legal terminology. In this situation, I think you should look for a combination, even if you allow the possibility of providing funds and ask the European Commission for validation afterwards. With regard to the plants in Maritsa, you continue to wait, I think that two years of the European Commission's opinion on whether you really want it or not, I cannot say. It's strange that there's been no answer on such a request for so long. If the European Commission and, on this subject, unless you are in any preliminary arrangements, is committed to a quick ruling, this Law will remain nothing, regardless of the fact that some dispute it, others support it and there is a rather lively discussion on it. Therefore, I think that you should take the attitude...... to correct the text in any way at the moment or to really prove that we are adopting provisions that lead in different directions. It is not my job to offer such editorials, but I am trying to understand what the real steps that the Ministry of Energy, the National Electricity Company and the government will take in order to have any result from the adoption of this Law. It would be good to clarify these intentions to the National Assembly, because otherwise even those who unconditionally support the Law turn out to support something that they do not know exactly how it will end and what a real result it will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u68	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I take the floor, as we are already obviously discussing the ways of so to speak, minimizing the damage, paying attention to at least two things. I hope the Ministry of Finance will listen to me and also show due care. Colleagues, it seems to me that here in the context of the otherwise unread arbitration decision, it is logical to ask ourselves a few questions. If it states that we are condemned to acquire this equipment that was ordered, as we have learned from the BSP and pay it, then there are several hypotheses regarding this supply and this equipment when it is introduced into the territory of the country. Here, I very much hope that the NRA will activate, carry out the necessary checks, as well as with regard to payment of this advance in 2008. Some nearly 90 million were paid, as you know. BGN, in respect of other payments made to the Russian company and to clarify whether the Russian company has not incurred an obligation to register under VAT, to pay VAT on these amounts, if not paid, to be deducted from this amount and to enter into the budget, including to check whether they do not owe corporate tax and another 10% to be charged. There are a lot of things the National Revenue Agency can do on an inspection, and I very much hope she does. By the way, I take this opportunity to tell you that she has already done similar checks on one thing, even a case has been conducted in this regard, the case is 4546/2014 of the Supreme Administrative Court, and then it was at the initiative of the National Revenue Agency that a 26 million corporate tax at the source was withheld from the same Russian company. The Russian company has filed a case before the Bulgarian court to recover them, meaning it is not a precedent for the activity of this company. The questions here are quite clear................................................................................................................................................................ Another very interesting thing that I am finishing with, ironically or not, colleagues, but item 6 of the agenda is the so-called Bill, which concerns the arbitrations in Bulgaria, the so-called private arbitrations, and the many outrageous ones that unfortunately happen to them. You will see, looking at this point later, that an arbitration decision is not a sacred cow, as people often say, and it is subject to annulment, there are ways to challenge it. I have serious concerns about the way the state interest has been defended in this megagadel in Geneva and whether this has really been done in the best way.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. These are all questions that I will probably be able to make clear this afternoon when I see the arbitration decision. Let us activate the competent state authorities, carry out the necessary checks so that they can... You all understand that once the amount has been paid in full, then any claim to the Russian company will most likely remain as a voice in the desert. It's about as if you've called a master at your house to put a water heater on you, he comes to you, he says, "I put it on, it's okay. You pay him the full amount and the next day you watch the water heater run, it's not the same one you ordered and so on. You call him: come and do your job here.... and he starts: I am busy today, tomorrow even more, the day after tomorrow I will come...... and so for weeks. It is good not to be in haste with payment, at least the full amount, before these circumstances are clarified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? A line to the MP Petar Slavov from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, I have been listening for over an hour that the universal culprit of everything in the country is BSP and somehow I couldn't stand it. My request is, seeking responsibility, it is very commendable that Bulgaria is brought to pay these funds and the project is stopped. I would ask you to start with your presidential candidate Mr. Traykov, as the reformers are always in white, you are always in clean, you are not responsible for everything. Look at how many agreements in his day and how much money has been paid for this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u71	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Any other lines? I won't. Order your coat, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u72	Dear Mr. Boychev, it seems that yesterday you didn't see "Referendum" but I quoted your colleague who took part there and who said in a straight text that the project was initiated on the request, initiative and donation of the BSP. Apparently, a project...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u73	I just want to remind you that we are not currently in the Referendum.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u74	That's right, Mr. Chairman, but I'm just quoting a statement from a representative of the BSP, so there's practically something like a confession. I'm trying to tell Mr. Boychev that in practice you don't need to stop a project and reduce the damage if it hasn't been started at all. There is the key and it was not necessary at all to be started at the time, there was not even a solution for the initiation of the contract, and yet equipment was ordered. It is indeed very clear where the guilt is and where the responsibility for these colossal payments that are here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u75	Traykov was paying. Traykov was paying.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u76	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u77	As for Mr. Traykov, who you mention and who is not present in the Chamber to take a stand, what I know at least is that at the time it was precisely because of the suspension of the project "Belene" - precisely because of the dismissal of a person from NEK, who had allowed himself to sign various agreements and make payments, then a conflict arose and was released. It seems to me that in this case he was defending the state interest and was exactly against stopping this project, this harmful project for Bulgaria, for which now all Bulgarians will have to pay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. The word has the popular representative Atanas Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The texts that we are currently looking at are very substantial because it is envisaged that state aid will be paid after a positive opinion of the European Commission, and I quote the memory text. Here arises an extremely important question: apropo, at first reading of this Law there were only two votes against one of which was mine, the other was of colleague Radan Kanev. Today, here we see other positions, but: what is it that worries us most in this situation? In order to rule on this, the European Commission will certainly read, honourable Members, the so-called 'Arbitrational Decision'. This decision will be read in Brussels. It concerns the obligation of the Bulgarian State and the Bulgarian MPs today, voting in the Chamber, do not know what they are voting for. That's the problem. Today, it has been very politely proposed here. Let us leave this point for tomorrow to read this arbitration decision. Why is this arbitration decision required by the Bulgarian State? What clauses are there in it that disturb those who have read it? That's the main thing that's bothering us. We are not sure that this decision is subject to immediate implementation. We are not sure that there are no appeal procedures for this decision before other judicial authorities. There are Bulgarian legislation, there are opportunities to attack arbitration decisions before the Supreme Court of Cassation. These questions are extremely important. Once again, we are not sure that this decision is subject to immediate implementation. You want today, you insist immediately, immediately, to vote on this Law and tomorrow or someday, when we read... Look, there's no cover-up. What was hidden will become evident. One day it will become clear what this decision says and then a part of you here in the Chamber will have no eyes to come out in front of people. I don't want to discuss BSP's behavior here. They will always and permanently lobby for building any object when it is with Russian equipment. I don't want to discuss who is a foreigner and who is not, but let's see, after all, when we give permission to the government to dispose of such large sums of the state budget for what we give this money for. Look, colleagues, one of the main functions of the National Assembly is to take care of the collection and spending of our common money, i.e. the budget. This is the supreme authority of government, and this is one of its main functions. I don't want to use these foreigners, but I really do sign a blank check with this law. That's true. I will consistently vote, as I have done so far, against all texts, because it is insulting for the National Assembly to adopt a law without reading any decision of any arbitration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u80	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I propose an end to the debate. For me today's sitting and the previous arguments have become a parade of irresponsibility and insolence. After the representatives of the BSP signed a enslaving document in 2008, whose consequences we are now trying to reduce in some way, we have lost six days as I told you in my previous statement from this tribune exactly a week ago. We lost six days with which we smashed two million more in an attempt at BSP's election ad with state money. That's what we did! Once again, we have lost two million in these six days of interest, with these two million we could have made a three-mile fence along the border with Turkey. (Comments from GERB: Bravo! Bravo! " - This is clearly your practice. That's how you always do it with government money, doing commercials. I don't think this should go on. I propose an end to the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. A reverse opinion? For the opposite opinion the people representative Dragomir Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm doing the opposite because maybe someone didn't read the document. It says that the amount will be paid only when we have the approval of the European Commission. We won't have such approval for the next three months. That we are paying interest and that we did not take these steps earlier is another matter. Whether it's six or three months until the European Commission has spoken. This is written in the Law itself. So you read the papers, and don't go out there and have an election campaign too. Here's the problem: why are we condemned? We are condemned because the project was suspended in 2012. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Valeri Simeonov to end the debate. Vote 115 MPs: for 89, against 25, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 3 supported by the Commission. Vote 110 MPs: 90 against 11, abstention 9. Article 3 has been accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 4, the name of the division "Concluding provision', as well as the single paragraph of the importer. They are all supported by the Commission. Vote 120 MPs: 97, Against 9, abstention 14. Article 4, the name "Concluding provision', as well as a single paragraph with its content on the report, have been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. Thank you. For a negative vote, please, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u85	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I voted against and do not let it fool you that some of the colleagues of the Reforming Block voted for the Reforming Block voted for it - not by belief, but because the situation is really quite delicate, the matter is quite complex. At first reading, quite a large part of us supported, but now we have had severe doubts mostly about the way we approach it. I continue to insist that it is an absolute nonsense and it is totally wrong to expect us to vote and support something, the details of which become known hours after the vote. I don't see what was stopping us from putting off until tomorrow morning's vote. The argument that we will pay interest of 300,000. lv. By tomorrow on the common background of a billion and a half that we're about to walk, it's extremely frivolous. We're gonna keep a close eye on what's going on from here on out. There is even an idea to re-create a Commission of inquiry to deal with the details of what has been happening since 2008 and most of all we need to see in this Arbitration Decision what it says and what legal opportunities it gives the Bulgarian state to spend a minimum amount of money on Bulgarian citizens. It's not someone's money, it wasn't just collected by the government. This is the money of each and every one of us, of the Bulgarian citizens. We must be very careful how we spend it and, unfortunately, we did not give a good indication.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Trenchev. Are there others with negative votes? The word requested the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u87	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I asked for the floor in the first place to thank you for supporting the government bill. As has already become clear many times, it is a bill that will enable the Bulgarian government to make decisions that will protect the national interests of the country to the maximum extent. So thank you all. This was a really extremely important bill which, I assure you, will unravel one of the most serious nodes in Bulgarian energy. I asked her for something else, too, because a lot of things were said in the debate about why there is an arbitration decision, who is guilty and what happened. Since I do not want to remain a hint of doubt in both you and the Bulgarian citizens about what you voted for today and what the Bulgarian government submitted to the National Assembly for a vote, I would like to remind just a few facts without giving an assessment and without going back to the past. By the way, I thought about not going back and not mentioning those facts, but what was said is, to put it mildly, untrue. So, ladies and gentlemen, I will allow myself very briefly just a few basic facts about this project. How did it start? It started in 2004 on the basis of a forecast which clearly says that in 2005 the current regime will be available in 2015. That kind of thing, we're all witnesses, it didn't happen. That is, the project started with one prognosis, which turns out to be misleading and inaccurate. In 2005, the Council of Ministers finally decided that this project was of national importance and made the final decision for the construction of the NPP project "Belene". Immediately after that, a contract for choice of contractor is launched. In this procurement, its implementation and subsequently the conclusion of the so-called Agreement contains the entire palette of violations of public procurement legislation. The Public Procurement Act, both then and now, provides for two options when such a procedure takes place and a contract for the full volume of the activities awarded must be chosen and a contract must be concluded or the procedure terminated. Well, in this case, that didn't happen. In this case, some solution has been reached, which is very unusual and the legislator could not even predict that someone might think of such a thing. This Agreement is signed, which has the character of some prior arrangement between the one elected as contractor, saying that the parties will negotiate to sign a contract. What's more, gentlemen. In this Agreement, it is said that NEK as a contracting entity reserves the right, in case something does not satisfy it during the negotiations, to move forward with the second ranking. We can conclude for ourselves what security and what project we are talking about, given that we do not know exactly who we are negotiating with. However, this does not prevent the then CEOs of the National Electric Company from committing that with this preliminary document they will also assign part of the activities related to a future construction of the Atomic Power Plant. This is regarding the procurement and the so-called Agreement from which the main vices of this project start. In 2007, a loan was drawn in connection with the project "Belene" - a loan amounting to half a billion, ladies and gentlemen. Again, a public procurement with dozens of violations. But that's not the scariest part. It follows that this loan was requested for the NPP project "Belene" but subsequently proved that the funds were spent for other purposes that had nothing to do with this project. Do you know how much the National Electric Company pays as interest, ladies and gentlemen? One hundred forty-one million leva stand on the NEK account for this loan, which is worth half a billion pretends for the NPP project. But in 2007, one more thing happened. The agreement for buying up so-called old equipment was signed. Its value is 295 million. Euros. This old equipment was sold for pennies, unknown for what reasons. In 2008, there are also a few important things happening - Appendix 3 is signed, which gives 200 million. lv. from the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers so that the so-called old infrastructure can be destroyed. The old infrastructure is destroyed, as a result of which there is a contract with the Atomstroyexport. However, it is subsequently established that this destruction was not actually carried out by the Atomstroyexport. It was by two holding companies that went and destroyed this equipment and therefore took 93% of the value of the funds that were provided. In 2008, another important event took place and it is related to the election of a strategic investor for this project. This investor sets out three main demands: the first is to have an immediate conclusion of a contract for engineering, supply and construction, and the second main request is the Bulgarian country, i.e. the National Electricity Company, to tell where it will get 5 billion. BGN, which is its share in this project, and the third main request is for no reason to order the equipment with a long production cycle, as there is no contract. This is a very logical reaction from a strategic investor who intends to invest his money. But we don't think so. Then a decision is taken by the Council of Ministers, which increases the capital of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, subsequently the National Electricity Company and this money must go to establish a joint company with the chosen strategic investor. Because a few times it's about gifts, empty checks, and I don't know what other fears, and that's what you call a blank check. You give 300 million for something that practically never happens. This money, ladies and gentlemen, does not go to create such a company and one has never been created. In the meantime, Appendix 5 on 5 November is concluded. 2008. This supplement determines the value of the equipment. We order equipment without a contract. Moreover, in this 2006 Agreement, as I have already mentioned, it is envisaged that this project can be implemented with someone else and not with a "Atomstroyexport', but this does not prevent us from signing Appendix 5 in 2008, ordering equipment worth 673 million. EUR and, of course, to pay an advance of 84 million. euros of this money, which is allocated from the central budget, from the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers, to create such a joint company. And with that, ladies and gentlemen, things are moving towards their legitimate finale today. We have come to the point that later "Atomstroyexport " brought this Arbitration case. If it is not yet clear to anyone, the judgmental arbitration decision of the International Arbitration is not for this because the project is suspended, let the Bulgarian citizens and you, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, be aware of the judgment is that equipment has been ordered, which has not been paid. The judgment is in relation to Appendix No 5. I am glad that when colleagues from the Reformation Bloc get acquainted, and everyone who wants to know the Arbitration Decision in place at NEC will be able to make sure of it. That's because Atomstroyexport has seven demands. They're worth $1 billion. 200 million. Euros. We forget, as if, this amount is 1 billion. 200 million. Euros! The judgmental decision is a little less than 50%. It is these claims of the Atomstroyexports for escalation, for lost benefits, i.e. in connection with the possible suspension of the project, were rejected as unfounded and the Arbitration very clearly states that these claims are unfounded because you never had a contract and never understood how this project would develop and will there be such a project at all. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remember that this Arbitration, this judgment, is because of Appendix 5 and what we ordered back then. Today we have to pay the bill and fill out the check that's not empty. The check isn't empty at all! The check is very clear and it clearly states that this is the check on the judgment of the International Arbitration. This is about the past. Now a little bit about responsibility, because everything that's happened hasn't happened just like that. It has happened because someone has exceeded their rights, another has been idle and has come to today's finale. So I hope these people, those colleagues who have worked differently, because, by the way, when Appendix 5 was signed, no decision of the Board of Directors has been made. Can you imagine how NEK's executive director, on his own, committed the state to an amount of 673 million. Euros? That's a little over 1 billion. 200 million. Is this possible to happen? Here we are today witnessing such an in-depth debate and I am absolutely about such a debate. I would have loved it if such a debate had been held years ago when this money was being given for this project. If it were then debated in this way, I am sure, ladies and gentlemen of the House that we would not be speaking like this today. So on the issue of responsibility. This is a very important topic. Now, as far as the future is concerned, because several times we have talked about what the government thinks, what the ruling majority thinks. I'll say this. There must be a future, and we must think about that future, because the facts have put us in this situation. We have a site, we have expenses that have been incurred, they amount to 1 billion. 400 million. BGN, now we will pay for what some ordered in 2008 and we will also have a reactor, produced 100%, the other 90%, and we need to think about the future. But don't make us think of the future irresponsible, you have to think responsible for the future. We're a responsible government. I believe that all of us here are responsible people and we need to approach pragmatically, we need to approach this so that we can best protect the country's interests. What will be the future of this project? I hope we can all decide together. What we have repeatedly mentioned is that the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian government neither before nor now have such a resource of 20 billion. BGN, let us be clear that it is about such an amount that will allow us the state to build this project on its own. That was clear from the beginning. A strategic investor was sought for a reason in 2007. I mean, we didn't have that money back then either. This is a serious resource. Ladies and gentlemen, let's think about the future, but think about it with the necessary responsibility. Let us all think together how to protect the interests of the Bulgarian country, how to protect the interests of Bulgarian energy. I am sure that we will be able to cope with this with our joint efforts. Something else about the Bill. With regard to the Bill, many things have been said about it being a blank check. The check isn't empty. See what the texts we've proposed say. It is clearly stated how these funds will be paid. They will be paid after a decision of the Council of Ministers is made accordingly. Each tranche will be the subject of a decision by the Council of Ministers. And why we want a notification to the European Commission, well, because we are simply following the rules, ladies and gentlemen. That's how we work. We have to follow the rules. By the way, we have recently deposited with the European Commission the Regulation on reducing the burden on industry in relation to renewable energy expenditure. Do you know what my colleagues from the European Commission said? This is the first document from the Bulgarian energy sector to be submitted for notification in accordance with art. 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Well, I, ladies and gentlemen, want to follow the rules, and the government wants to follow the rules, so we will fulfill this commitment. We have conducted the necessary consultations, we have conducted the necessary studies on what are the deadlines. Believe me, there is no one who is stronger than us, there are no people who are stronger than us to want this payment to become an hour sooner, because the interest rates that are flowing now are really killing. Why wasn't the amount indicated? The answer is very clear. The amount is clearly indicated, it is indicated in the arbitration decision. The amount is also in the financial justification of the Bill that you have. You know that at the end of the budget year, as this will be paid financial assistance under the Public Finance Act, this transaction must take place through the Ministry of Energy. The financial justification relating to the change in the budget of the Ministry of Energy is clearly indicated what this amount is. But since from now on we have to specify what the amount of the interest is, you know that we have claimed in terms of this amount, there is a possibility that this amount will be less. There is also a possibility to reduce part of the amount of the principal, since there are also certain questions to the Arbitration. Let us wait for the Internationalj arbitration to express its further opinion on this and the amount will be clear. Our goal is that this amount is not higher than what we have planned. That is why it was so important for this Bill to pass as quickly as possible, to go by consensus so that we could really implement this judgment of International Arbitration. Once again, ladies and gentlemen of the House, thank you for what you have done. Thank you for the debate. I also thank my colleagues from BSP, who did not support this Bill, but this has made it clear and many other things. Thank you! [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u88	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. Procedure? Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u89	Mr. Chairman, information on the Council of Ministers' decision to propose Mrs. Kristalina Georgieva as Bulgaria's candidate for UN Secretary has come up. [[(Shouting from BSP LB:]] I request that the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister be called to present to the Parliament their arguments for this decision, which we appreciate as a serious betrayal to Bulgaria and as submission to foreign interests. Please be invited to a hearing in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Nino. I will contact the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister and present your request. The next item on the agenda is: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE NAVIGATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, PRESENTED BY THE GENERALDirectOR OF THE GENERAL DIRECTOR OF THE TURN AND TURKEY With the report on the first vote of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, we will be introduced by its President, the national representative Petar Kanev. You have the floor, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u91	Colleagues, I'm gonna have to ask for admission first. I don't know how we're gonna do this by looking at the gym. On the basis of art. 46 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that we invite Daniela Vezeva to the Chamber to the Deputy Minister of Economy, Nina Hristova, State Expert in the Directorate of External Policy and Svetoslava Malcheva, Chief Expert in the Directorate of External Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u92	Dear colleagues, please prepare for a vote. Colleagues who are on the sidelines should note that a vote is yet to be taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the proposal for admission in plenary, please vote so that we can allow them in this House. Vote 69 MPs: 68 against 1, no abstentions. Please invite the listed persons to the Chamber. Mr. Kanev, come in for the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u93	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Level of Service Agreement between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco Products, Xavier Pratts Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Director-General of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kusheva, of the other part, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and plant products for smoking and of the Agreement on the level of service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco and Tobacco Products and Xavier Prats Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski, of the other part, for the storage of data on electronic cigarettes and refill containers, No 602-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee at its meeting held on 14 September 2016 examined and discussed the Draft Law on the ratification of the Service Level Agreement between the European Commission, presented by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety and Health of Xavier Pratts Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Director-General of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kusheva, of the other part, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and plant products for smoking and the Agreement on the level of service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco Safety and Food (DG) Xavier Prats Monnets, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski, of the other part, for the storage of data on electronic cigarettes and refill containers, No 602-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Lyuben Petrov "Deputy Minister, Nina Hristova and Svetoslava Malcheva" experts in the Department of Trade Mechanisms. The bill was presented by Mr. Luben Petrov. Two agreements are included in the Bill. They shall apply to data relating to the following categories of products: electronic cigarettes and refill containers and tobacco products, new tobacco products and plant smoking products. The agreements set the time limits and conditions for the data storage service proposed by the European Commission to the Member States for the categories of products referred to above submitted by our country in accordance with Directive 2014/40/EU by means of a common electronic portal (EU-CEG). The agreements clarify the role and responsibilities of the European Commission and the Republic of Bulgaria with regard to the functioning and use of the data storage database covered by these agreements as well as data protection. The services under these agreements shall be provided by the European Commission free of charge, except where necessary for a significant increase in storage capacity. The Parties may not transfer their rights or obligations under those agreements to third parties without the written consent of the other Party to those agreements. Agreements shall be valid for 5 years and after that period they shall be automatically extended for the same period unless one of the Parties terminates it with one year's notice. In Bulgarian legislation, the collection of the information to be provided for the common portal of the European Union is regulated by the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to adopt, on the one hand, the Law on the ratification of the Service Level Agreement between the European Commission, presented by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety and Xavier Pratts Monnet, on the one hand, and the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Director-General of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kusheva, on the other hand, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and tobacco smoking products and the Agreement on the level of service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco and Tobacco Products (Savier Prats Monne), on the one hand, and the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski, on the other, for the storage of data on electronic cigarettes and refill containers, No 602-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. The next report is from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Mr. Rumen Hristov, Chairman of the Commission, will present the report. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft for the ratification of the Agreement on the Level of Service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco Safety, Xavier Prats Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Director-General of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kusheva, of the other part, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and plant products for smoking and of the Agreement on the level of service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco and Tobacco Products, of the other part, for the storage of data on electronic cigarettes and refill containers, No 602-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016. The Committee on Agriculture and Foods held a meeting on 31 August 2016, which discussed the Draft for ratification of the Service Level Agreement between the European Commission, presented by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco Products, Xavier Pratts Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Director-General of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kasheva, of the other part, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and plant products for smoking and of the Agreement on the level of service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco Security and Food Safety and Xavier Prats Monne, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski, of the other part, for the storage of data on electronic cigarettes and refills, No 602-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016. Assoc. Maria Kusheva Director of the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products, and Ace. Eng. Mr. Yovcho Kochev, National Administrator for the Republic of Bulgaria; from the Ministry of Economy: Mr. Simoneta Boneva. The bill of reasons for it was presented by Simoneta Boneva. The tobacco, tobacco and related products Act provides that manufacturers, importers and persons importing tobacco products into the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union shall provide the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco and Information on the ingredients and emissions of such products by electronic means and on the volume of sales made. Such information should be provided electronically to the Ministry of Economy by manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, new tobacco products, electronic cigarettes and refill containers. Such data and information should be provided by means of a common data portal, stored electronically and accessed to them by the European Commission and the other Member States. The requirements for the storage of information and access to it may be met by Member States using the data storage services offered by the European Commission. For this purpose it is necessary to have signed service level agreements according to art. 3 of Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/2186 and art. 3 of Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/1183. The two agreements lay down the time limits and conditions for the use of the data storage service proposed by the European Commission, the roles and responsibilities of the Parties in relation to the functioning and use of the relevant data storage base and their protection. The European Commission should provide data storage and exchange services in a protected environment and without payment, except in the event of a significant change in circumstances such as the need for a significant increase in storage capacity. A judicial settlement is also envisaged in the event of disputes. Agreements shall be valid for five years and after that period shall be automatically extended for the same period unless one of the Parties to the agreement concerned terminates it with one year's notice to the other Party. Following the debates, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 19 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Svilen Ivanov will present the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for a first vote on a draft law on the ratification of the Level of Service Agreement between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco Products, Ms Xavier Pratts Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Director-General of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kusheva, of the other part, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and plant products for smoking and of the Agreement on the level of service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco and Tobacco Products and on the one part, Xavi Prats Monne, of the other part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski, of the other part, for the storage of data on electronic cigarettes and refill containers, No 602-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016. At its meeting on 31 August 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a bill for ratification of the Agreement, which I have just read. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Mrs. Simoneta Boneva Head of the Department of Commerce and Industry in the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, Ms. Nina Hristova State Expert, and Mrs. Svetoslava Malcheva Chief Expert in the Department of Trade Mechanisms. The bill was presented by Mrs. Boneva. In the discussion took part the popular representative Emil Dimitrov, who expressed support for the bill. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 13 votes for the European Commission, represented by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Food and Food Safety and Xavier Pratts Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Director-General of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kasheva, of the other part, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and plant products for smoking and the Agreement on the level of service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Food Safety and Xavier Prats Monne, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski, of the other part, for the storage of electronic cigarettes and refill containers, No 602-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications follows. He will introduce us to Mr. Atanas Tashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft for the ratification of the Agreement on the Level of Service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco Safety, Xavier Pratts Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Director-General of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kusheva, of the other part, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and plant products for smoking and the Agreement on the level of service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco and Tobacco Products and Xavier Prats Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski, of the other part, for the storage of data on electronic cigarettes and refills, No 602-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016. At a meeting of the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Committee held on 14 September 2014, a Draft for the ratification of the Service Level Agreement between the European Commission, presented by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco Products and Tobacco Products and Xavier Pratts Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Director-General of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kasheva, of the other part, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and plant products for smoking and the Agreement on the level of service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco Safety, Xavie Prats Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski, of the other part, for the storage of data on electronic cigarettes and refill containers, No 602-02-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016. The meeting was attended by Nina Hristova, State Expert in the Department of Trade Mechanisms, Directorate of Foreign Affairs and Ms. Svetoslava Malcheva, Senior Expert in the Department of Trade Mechanisms, Directorate of Foreign Policy and Ministry of Economy. The bill was presented by Mrs. Hristova. In accordance with art. 35b and the following from the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act, manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, tobacco products shall provide by electronic means the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products with data and information on the ingredients and emissions of those products as well as on the volume of sales made. Data and information should be provided through a common data submission portal. Directive 2014/40/EU requires Member States to store the information provided by manufacturers and importers of tobacco products, new tobacco products, electronic cigarettes and refill containers electronically and to ensure access to it by the European Commission and other Member States. Member States may ensure that this information is stored and accessed by using the data storage services offered by the European Commission, provided that they have signed with it an agreement on the level of service under art. 3 of Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/2186 and art. 3 of Implementing Decision (EU) 2015/1183. Additional agreements to this Decision lay down the time limits and conditions for the use of the service proposed by the European Commission, the roles and responsibilities of the Commission and of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to the functioning and use of the relevant database for data storage and data protection. The European Commission should provide data storage and exchange services in a protected environment without requiring payment, except in the event of a significant change in circumstances, such as the need for a significant increase in storage capacity. A judicial settlement is also envisaged in the event of disputes. After the presentation of the bill Mr. Ivan Valkov raised a question about the period of storage of the data under the agreement. The representatives of the importers explained that the duration of the Agreement, the initial period for which the Agreement was concluded, was five years. During this five-year period, it can only be terminated if the Commission wishes to be paid fees to provide the service. If it decides that it is necessary to pay such fees, Member States may waive the use of its services and develop their own entire data storage system. After the initial five-year period, the Agreement may also be terminated for other reasons than the possible introduction of fees with one year's notice. In the light of the foregoing and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 12 votes
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Tashkov. That's how the reports are run out. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate on the proposed bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? [[(Replys:) There isn't! Let's vote.)]] There aren't any. Honourable Members, I accept the proposal and close the debate. Colleagues, I am voting on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the Level of Service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety and Xavier Prats Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Director-General of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kusheva, of the other part, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and tobacco products for smoking products and the Agreement on the level of service between the European Commission, presented by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Procedure Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u101	My fellow Members, I propose a procedure: to proceed to a second vote on the bill, given that there were no speeches and no debates. The four committees supported him unanimously, without the opposition and the abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal made to examine the bill and at second reading. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Dear Mr. Kanev, please report the bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u103	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Service Level Agreement between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety and Xavier Pratts Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Director-General of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kusheva, of the other part, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and plant products for smoking and of the Service Level Agreement between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco Safety (DG) and Xavier Prats Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski, of the other part, for the storage of data on electronic cigarettes and refill containers A single member. Ratification of the Service Level Agreement between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety and Xavier Pratts Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Director-General of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kusheva, of the other part, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and plant products for smoking and of the Service Level Agreement between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco Safety (DG) and Xavier Prats Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski, of the other part, for the storage of data on electronic cigarettes and refill containers, signed on 20 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u104	Thank you. Honourable Members, speeches on the name of the Law and article alone? There aren't any. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Honourable Members, we are voting on the proposed name of the Bill and a single member. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The proposal has been adopted, with which the Second Reading Bill has been adopted. Honourable Members, we are moving to item three of the voted agenda: FIRST READING OF THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE DIVERSAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF BULGARIA AND THE SECRETARIES OF THE INITIVATIVE Eureka FOR PARTICIPATION IN THE JOINT Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016. Report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose on the grounds of art. 46 of our Staff Regulations are granted access to the hall of the following persons: Daniela Vezeva, Deputy Minister of Economy and Tourism, Zhelyaz Enev, Director of the Economic Policy Directorate for Promotion and Nikola Stoyanov, Deputy Executive Director of the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u106	My fellow Members, there is a proposal for admission to this House. Please vote. They voted 76 MPs: for 73, against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please provide access to the list of persons listed in the Chamber. Dear Mr. Kanev, the Commission report follows.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u107	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Bilateral Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Secretariat of the European Union Initiative for Participation in the Joint Programme.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At its regular meeting held on 14 September, 2016 The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Bilateral Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Secretariat of the Eurostars-2 Joint Programme. The meeting was attended by Luben Petrov, Deputy Minister of Economy, Zhelyaz Enev, Director of the Economic Policy Directorate for Promotion at the Ministry of Economy, and Stanislav Angelov, Director of the Directorate for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Lyuben Petrov. He pointed out that the "Eurostars-2" programme is intended for small and medium-sized enterprises conducting research and development. It provides an opportunity for joint national and European funding for international research projects. At least two legal entities from different Member States are required to participate in the project. Within two years of the completion of the project, the resulting final product must be incorporated into the production or market. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of technical equipment and installations, including the purchase, maintenance, maintenance and repair of technical equipment, and the purchase, maintenance, maintenance and repair of technical equipment, and the purchase, maintenance, maintenance and repair of technical equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and The European Parliament's secretariat is the executive structure that manages the joint programme "Eurostars-2" and monitors its implementation and receives, distributes and monitors the Community's financial contribution to the joint programme "Eurostars-2." The Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises is the organization that coordinates the activities of the programme in Bulgaria. The costs of the activities of the organization and coordination of the activities of the preparation and participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the joint programme................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Bulgaria's contribution to the project will be 500 thousand. EUR per year for the programme period. The Ratified Treaty will allow the subsidies paid by the Executive Agency to encourage the small and medium-sized enterprises of the Bulgarian participants in projects under the "Eurostars-2" to be reimbursed by the Secretariat. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft for ratification of the Bilateral Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Secretariat of the Eurostars-2 Joint Programme, No 602-02-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. We are about to hear the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Bilateral Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Secretariat of the European Union initiative for participation in the Joint Programme of the European Union, No 602-02-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016. At its meeting, held on 31 August 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Bilateral Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Secretariat of the European Union initiative for participation in the Joint Programme "Eurostars-2." No 602-02-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Zhelyaz Enev, Director of the Economic Policies for Promotion and Mr. Stanislav Angelov, Director of the Directorate of Small and Medium Enterprises Development in the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises. The bill was presented by Mr. Stanislav Angelov. He pointed out that the contract aims to settle the relations between the national funding body of the programme, the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Office for the Functioning and Financing of the Programme. Ratification will allow the subsidies paid by the Executive Agency to encourage the small and medium-sized enterprises of the Bulgarian participants in projects under the "Eurostars-2" to be reimbursed by the Secretariat. The programme is the continuation of the successful programme. It supports research and development carried out by small and medium-sized enterprises. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Programme contributes to the objectives of Horizon 2020 and aims to accelerate the development of technologies and innovations that will be the basis of the future business and helps European innovative small and medium-sized enterprises to grow into leading global companies. After the vote was taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Bilateral Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Conference of the European Union for Participation in the Joint Programme............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. I see that there is no report from the Committee on Budget and Finance, but the last report will be from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Mrs. Grozdanova will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Bilateral Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Secretariat of the European Union initiative for participation in the Joint Programme of the European Union, No 602-02-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016. At a meeting held on 7 September 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the above-mentioned Draft Law. The reasons for the bill were presented by Nikola Stoyanov. Deputy Executive Director of the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. This Bilateral Treaty, part of the programme "Eurostars-2" within the framework of the EURICA initiative, aims to support small and medium-sized enterprises carrying out research and development. The Programme shall support undertakings participating in joint research or innovation projects in partnership with another small or medium-sized enterprise or with a large enterprise or with research organisations. The project requires at least two legal entities from different Member States to participate, with a leading partner being a small or medium-sized enterprise operating in research and development. The Joint Programme "Eurostars" stimulates joint international research and innovation projects by facilitating business access to finance in the development of new products, technologies and services. The "Eurostars-2" programme contributes to meeting the objectives of Horizon 2020, namely to speed up the development of technologies and innovation that are at the heart of the competitive business. The Republic of Bulgaria is a full member of the EURICA 2011 initiative. This has created the conditions for our enterprises to take advantage of the opportunities provided to us through the EURICA initiative, as well as the Joint Programme. Pursuant to Decision No 979 of the Council of Ministers of 2015, the expenditure on the activities of the organisation and coordination of the activities of the preparation and participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the joint programme.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As the administration institution of the National Innovation Fund and under Decision No 979 of 2015, the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises is the institution from a Bulgarian country, which finances the Bulgarian participants in the international research projects under the Joint Programme. Bulgaria's contribution to the project will be 500 thousand. EUR per year for the 2014-2020 programme period The contract provides for the reimbursement by the European Commission of up to 20% of the subsidies paid by the Executive Agency for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises to the Bulgarian participants in projects under the "Eurostars 2" initiative. The treaty will contribute to the effective implementation by the Bulgarian side of the activities under the "Eurostars-2" and will accelerate the development of technologies and innovation among medium and small enterprises. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 14 votes for the European Parliament, without abstention and abstention, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Bilateral Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Conference of the Eurostars-2 Joint Programme, No 602-02-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Dear colleagues, the debate and the vote after the break. I'm calling a lunch break at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u113	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. I would like to remind you that we are looking at the third item of the Law on the ratification of the bilateral treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Secretariat of the European Union initiative for participation in the Joint Programme of the European Union, No 602-02-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The reports of the committees to which the bill has been allocated were presented. My fellow Members, I am opening the debates on the proposed bill. Are there any colleagues willing to speak out of the stands? ▪ I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. There's a vote coming up. There is no quorum visible in this Chamber. Name inspection, honourable Members: Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - absent Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Rumen Ivanov Ivanov - absent Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Musa Cemal Palev - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Method Borisov Andreev - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - absent Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - absent Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent In addition entered colleagues: Stoyan Mirchev, Hristo Grudev, Rumen Hristov, Nikola Hadzhiyski, Petar Kadiev, Nayden Zelenogorski, Yanaki Stoilov, Svetoslav Belemezov, Kalina Balabanov, Kostadin Markov, Ivan Valkov, Ivan Cholakov, Rumen Ivanov, Zhivko Martinov, Emil Raynov, Krasimir Bogdanov, Daniela Daritkova, Svetlin Tanchev, Georgi Kovachev, Samir Abu Melih, Valentin Kasabov, Theodora Georgieva. Honourable Members, there is a quorum. We are voting for a Draft Law on the ratification of the Bilateral Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Secretariat of the EUROICA Initiative for Participation in the Joint Programme of the European Union, No 602-02-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016, supported by the four committees. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Procedure, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u114	Colleagues, given that the Law was supported in all four committees without abstentions and oppositions, and that there were no debates and practically supported in the Chamber, I propose that we move on to a second vote on the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u115	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 107 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please, dear Mr. Kanev, report the Law at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u116	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Bilateral Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Secretariat of the Eurostars-2 Joint Programme A single member. It ratifies the Bilateral Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union Secretariat for Participation in the Joint Programme of the European Union, signed on 30 December 2015 in Brussels, the Kingdom of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u117	Thank you. Statements, honourable colleagues. There aren't any. I put to the vote the name of the Law as well as a single member. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The proposal was adopted unanimously, with which the Draft Law at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u118	Moving on to the next item on the agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Which of the Budget and Finance Committee will report? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, first of all, for a procedure - to allow Mrs. Vergina Micheva to be admitted to the Chamber "Deputy Minister of Justice," Mr. Dimitar Uzunov, representative of the Supreme Judicial Council, and Mrs. Annie Arnaudova, Director of Legal Affairs in the Financial Supervision Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u120	Please vote on admission of the persons so mentioned. 99 MPs voted: 96, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u121	Yes, thank you. ♪ I can't believe the Committee on Budget and Finance, on a Draft Law implementing measures against market abuse of financial instruments, No 602-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 July 2016 and adopted at the first vote on 9 September 2016. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u122	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u123	Chapter one. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the head. Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 by importer are supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u124	Are there any statements on the name and on the terms 1 to 5, supported by the Committee on Importation? I won't. Please vote. Vote 94 MPs: for 94, no objection, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u125	Chapter two. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7, by offering in para. 2, p. 2 the words the procedures under art. The following shall be added to the table in Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: 10.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u126	Statements? I won't. I propose that we vote on the names of Chapter Two, of Section I, Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9 inclusive. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u127	"Department II." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the section. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10, 11 and 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13, by replacing the words in the form of the.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u128	Statements? I won't. I vote on the name of Section II and Articles 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 respectively, supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u129	"Department III." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16, by offering in para. 1 the words "special communication channels" shall be replaced by the communication channels under art. 10.................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18, by offering in para. 3 words "The measures referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, To be replaced by............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u130	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Section III and Articles 16 to 19 including those supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u131	Head of State. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20, 21 and 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u132	Statements? I won't. I vote on the name of Chapter 4 and Articles 20, 21 and 22, supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u133	Chapter Five. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 5 as well as the text of the importer for art. 23 and 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u134	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter 5 and Articles 23 and 24 by importer. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u135	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 2 by proposing that the words suppose the application of Regulation No 596/2014 and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on market abuse (the Market Abuse Regulation) and repealing Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directives 2003/124/EC, 2003/125/EC and 2004/72/EC.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u136	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Additional Provisions, as well as paragraphs 1 and 2, with the corresponding text read by Mrs Stoyanova. They voted 83 MPs: 81, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u137	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, 4 and 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6 by proposing: 1. in t. Art. 14, art. 35a: (a) in para. 5, t. 3 and 4 to be amended as follows: "3." carry out regular verification of compliance between the accounts held by the management company and the depositary for the assets of the collective investment scheme and in the cases referred to in art. 37a " and with the accounts which the third party conducts; 4. take the necessary measures to ensure that all the cash of the collective investment scheme deposited with a third party can be clearly distinguished from the depositary's funds and that third party's by means of individual accounts of the holders led by the third party or by equivalent measures which achieve the same level of protection; (b) in para. 11 words shall be deleted in all cases. 2. in t. Art. 15, art. 36, para. 5, in a sentence first anywhere before the words 3. ct. Art. 17, art. 37a: (a) in para. 3, p. 2 (a) (b) The words "the home Member" shall be replaced by "the home Member State" and "the home Member State" shall be replaced by "the home Member State." (b) in para. 5, the words "art." For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 35 a.m. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Art. 23, art. 100, para. 1, t. 6 the words of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on market abuse (the Market Abuse Regulation) and repealing Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directives 2003/124/EC, 2003/125/EC and 2004/72/EC (OJ L 173/1 of 12.06.2014) (Regulation No 596/2014) shall be deleted. 5. Art. 37, Art. 275, para. 3, p. 2 after the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u138	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the division by importer by paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 by importer and § 6 by version of the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u139	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7 by proposing in paragraph 7. 4 letter in the number "suppl. 575" to be replaced by "supplier" in the letter "supplier" in the words "art. 37," para. To be replaced by................................................................................................... 37, para. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the amount of aid referred to in Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be calculated on the basis of the amount of the aid referred to in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the amount of the aid referred to in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 all over the number..575. to be replaced The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8 by proposing, in accordance with point (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 8 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u140	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 7 to 10 including, by way of an importer and by a corresponding version of the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 81, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u141	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal, i.e. II of the proposal is reflected in its systematic position in § 14, which becomes § 15. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judicial Government ( SG No. 62 of 2016) Paragraph 229 of the Transitional and Final Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. A new t. is created. 2: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2. Paragraphs 156, 158 and 195, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2018 2. Previously on "T." 2 and 3 become ct, respectively. 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? People's representative Emil Dimitrov come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs! Until now, this parliament for a year and a half has been engaged in a major activity of making judicial reform. To this end, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov agreed to start it. We set up a special Temporary Committee for Constitutional Change "Chapter " for the fifth time, there was a new round of difficult negotiations - three votes with a two-thirds majority, after which the prime minister again became guarantor of the scope and reform, the eligible parameters that will be adopted, then last month July, we successfully congratulated ourselves with the adopted Law on the judiciary. Even one Minister of Justice had to be replaced with another, since the old one would not have been able to cope with the duties assigned to him. Or we had a year and a half of reforming. A month and a half ago, we congratulated ourselves with its success, and now we move to postpone some of the decisions already adopted by another year and a half, not until New Year, but for next year, in practice for the next parliament, for the next minister, for the next Supreme Judicial Council. How do we do it? Once we have to amend the Constitution and the Law on the Judiciary, now with the Law on Market Instruments and Crimes related to them, we are changing a basic constitutional Law on the Judiciary. This would not have gone quietly if it were in the Legal Commission, because for us it was not a problem if we knew what was happening and what problems arose among the affected category of people, to make a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, just adopted, which would solve this problem. But you were running away from that decision! What do I expect tomorrow? With the Road Traffic Act to change the electoral code! That wouldn't be a problem at all. Can you imagine with the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, anyone deciding to change the Constitution? With the transitional and final provisions! Or should the Plant Protection Act or the Chitalishtes adopt budget 2017? What interferes with the Transitional and Final Provisions? And aren't these state-of-the-art laws that have to move both the finances and the judiciary? The law of the Ministry of Interior is coming up. Well, let's use it to change the president's mandate or someone trying to put any options in place to influence Mr. D.A.'s decision, for example. I'm taking this opportunity to congratulate him on his 50th birthday today! You see how untenable it is when we have laws...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u144	Please get to the point, Mr. Dimitrov! Other MPs are birthdays today, too, so I ask you to focus on the specific text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u145	Is what we are doing today a legislative initiative or a legislative arbitrariness? Which one do you think it is? Dear Mr. President, 227 years of the Great French Revolution. The division of authorities.... legislative, judicial and executive....we, with the Law on Market Instruments, deal with the judiciary. Very wise and very reasonable! What, gentlemen, because I'm sure you don't know what's going on, are we doing today? When the Law on the Judiciary was adopted, it turned out that there were 422 officials whom the Minister of Justice appointed, fired, promoted or relocated. However, the fees collected by these officials go to justice and their salaries are paid by the Supreme Judicial Council. And the decision was made that either the fees and the money be in the SJC, which so far pays their salaries, or goes to the Justice Department. The decision was made to go to the Ministry of Justice, to transfer the money from the SJC, to send a disk with the data of these 422 people But that can't happen for two months. Turns out these people's status is unclear. Are they employees, are they part of the judiciary, are they an authority? What are they exactly? And people were starting to get worried. For them it is no matter where they get their salaries, but they do not receive them, as a result of which the Supreme Judicial Council, absolutely generous, well-meaning and stately, continued to pay these people's salaries, and we are now making a decision not from the New Year with the budget, but after another year and a half to settle this status. Obviously, the problem with these people is ripe. Obviously, they, as civil servants, have done their duty and must receive their salaries. For them, however, it turns out that it does not matter where they get them from the SJC or the Ministry of Justice. Just the thought of being there made them rebel. Of course, this state-of-the-art thinking that the SJC did couldn't help but be...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u146	Mr. Dimitrov... Please stop the speaker's time. You only have 10 seconds left, and we're at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u147	If you don't eat them!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u148	No, you won't. Your time has been suspended and a vote is to be taken. I expect from you a concrete proposal on a text to be voted on as we are at second reading. Play the speaker's time. Here you go. You've got 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u149	I take this opportunity to thank Menda Stoyanova for making it possible that this conflict will not arise. I join the wise decision of the Supreme Judicial Council to act stately. Our parliamentary group has made a decision, no matter what is happening at the moment, to allow it to be postponed for a year and a half so decided a month and a half ago and for these civil servants to continue to receive their salaries from the SJC because it turned out to be the only possible solution, and the Justice Ministry at this stage could not handle it. Obviously, reform is also needed for this category of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u150	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. First line. [[Replices from Daniel Kirilov.]] I've given you my word. Come on in. Your chivalry feelings will be demonstrated elsewhere and at another time. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of the disciplined instructions you gave me, and in order for the speaker to finish his thesis, I take a line. I want to replicate Mr. Dimitrov into this. I take part in the responsibility, Mr. Dimitrov, for this legislative proposal. I asked my colleague Menda Stoyanova, as the proximity of matter is to financial relations, as the budgetary relations of a structure between the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Judicial Council are regulated, it should include this proposal in this Law. Yes, material connectivity is not immediate, I absolutely agree, but in the interests of these 422 highly qualified specialists, state-owned judicial contractors and judges in the entries, we believe that it is appropriate to resolve this matter as soon as possible. Thank you for your principled support. With regard to your other considerations, I also express principled support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? Is there a second line for Mr. Emil Dimitrov's statement? I won't. Mr. Dimitrov, according to the Rules, you have the right to the doppelganger. Will you take advantage of it? In three minutes, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u153	Who gives you three minutes of air time? Dear Mr. Kirilov, when we adopted the Law, we reached an agreement, everyone made concessions and we reached this decision. Now it turns out that a disk with 417 names and salaries due to them is very difficult to go to justice. Okay. I accept. For the Supreme Judicial Council so far, it has not been a problem and will not continue to be a problem to pay salaries. These people need to get their paychecks. However, it is also obvious that we must settle this matter, because these people are rebelling and will continue to rebel. We don't do it because they don't feel comfortable with it and there are judges in football. He won't make them magistrates. But we have to settle these people anyway, this matter. As a civil servant, I can't imagine I won't get my salary because someone somewhere has changed a law and another minister hasn't decided to do his job. I am grateful to Mrs. Menda Stoyanova that she is the only one who has taken the risk in this Law, which has nothing to do with the judiciary, to find the need to bring this paragraph through, and we in some market instruments and the abuse of them to settle the budget of the judiciary. But if this is the only solution and it will not create a problem, we will support it, as I have already said more than once. I'm also taking this opportunity to thank the SJC for the grand gesture they made and their state-of-the-art behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u154	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Before I put to the vote the creation of a new § 11, Honourable Mr. Uzunov, as representing the Supreme Judicial Council, Madam Deputy Minister, if you wish, you have the right to take the floor. Give me a handshake sign if you want. You don't want to. I put to the vote the Commission proposal is the creation of a new § 11 as read by the President of the Budget Commission Mrs. Stoyanova. Vote 80 MPs: 74, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal point two, as reflected in its systematic place, to be in § 14, which becomes § 15. Vote 75 MPs: 70, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u155	Mr President, before we proceed with the following paragraphs, please note for the record that a technical error has been made in discharge: Chapter 4 is actually Chapter 3 and Chapter 5 is Chapter 4 respectively, and if the text quotes these chapters somewhere, please note that, in fact, when we are talking about Chapter 4, it is Chapter 3 and therefore instead of Chapter 5 "Chapter 4."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u156	I ask that this be reflected accordingly in the protocol... this technical information and correction.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u157	Thank you. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... The Act shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 11, which shall enter into force on 9 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u158	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Committee on Importance § 11, which becomes § 12; § 12, which becomes § 13; § 13, which becomes § 14, and the supported version of § 14, which becomes § 15. Vote 73 MPs: 69, no objection, abstention 4. The proposal has been adopted and thus the Law, which becomes the Law adopted at second reading. Moving to point five of our weekly program: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS AND PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The first report is from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Her chairman, Mr. Nastimir Ananiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before the report, please access the hall of Deputy Minister Valeri Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u160	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote access to the hall of the Deputy Minister of Transport and Information Technology Mr. Borisov. Vote 77 MPs: 65 against 5, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ananiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, No 602-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2016. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 14 September 2016, a Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure was discussed, No 602-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Kalina Dimitrova, Director of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, representatives of industry organizations, mobile operators and operators of electricity transmission and distribution networks. The bill was presented by Mr. Valeri Borisov. The proposed bill is drawn up in connection with the introduction into national law of the provisions of Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on measures to reduce the cost of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks (Directive 2014/61/EU) and the updating of regulations setting out requirements for the deployment of electronic communications networks and the construction of their adjacent infrastructure. Mr. Borisov noted that the bill is the result of the activity of an interdepartmental working group with the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which involved representatives of administration and business, both in the field of telecommunications and among network operators, whose activity is subject to regulation in the Bill. The bill regulates the provision of rights and waitouts related to the construction of physical infrastructure and the deployment of networks. These norms are established on the basis of Chapter 17 of the Law on Electronic Communications, removing obsolete provisions, imperfections in the implementation process, while others are adapted and adapted to technological development and the reliefs that create the new special Law. It is also envisaged that network operators will provide access to and shared use of existing infrastructures under previously announced conditions, including a price, by concluding a written contract with the electronic communications network operator. The creation of a Single Information Point whose functions will be performed by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications is regulated. The single information point is essential for achieving the objectives of the Law because it is entrusted with functions to maintain a single database of up-to-date information to facilitate the coordination of joint construction and use of physical infrastructure, as well as the deployment of electronic communications networks. The bill provides for the Communications Regulation Commission to play the role of a body to resolve disputes related to providing access to existing infrastructure, including setting access prices, coordinating constructions, providing information on planned constructions, providing access to physical infrastructure in buildings and deploying electronic communications networks. After the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held. The representatives of industry organizations and businesses expressed their satisfaction with the draft Law, as it will ease and speed up the process of building high-speed electronic communications networks. National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski drew attention to the opinion received on the draft by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and to the texts proposed in it. People's representative Ivan Valkov expressed his support for the bill, stressing that the deficiencies found can be removed in its second vote. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 11 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u162	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. We are about to hear a report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The report will introduce us to her chairman Mr. Svetlin Tanchev. Here you go, Mr. Tanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u163	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At its regular meeting held on 13 July 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure submitted by the Council of Ministers. Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Kalina Dimitrova, Director of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications took part in the Commission meeting. The proposed draft aims to harmonise the Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on measures to reduce the cost of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks. It should be borne in mind that the deadline for adopting the national provisions transposing the Directive expired on 1 January 2016. In this regard, the European Commission launched infringement proceedings against Bulgaria. The importer of the bill states that the delay was caused by the complex nature of matter, the existence of conflicting legal acts, as well as the need to draw up a separate law that regulates the accelerated deployment of modern electronic communications networks and the construction of the infrastructure concerned. This bill aims to facilitate administrative procedures and reduce the costs associated with the deployment of high-speed cable electronic communications networks. It is envisaged to remove the requirements for detailed planning when the physical infrastructure route for these networks falls within the scope of an existing route and in the waitouts of pipelines, power lines, sewerage networks and railways or other existing networks. At the same time, network operators will be obliged to provide access to and joint use of existing infrastructures under previously disclosed conditions by concluding a written contract with electronic communications network operators. The role of a body to resolve disputes arising in this regard, including when setting prices, will be taken over by the Communications Regulation Commission. In order to achieve the objectives of the Law, the third creation of a Single Information Point, the functions of which will be performed by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, is essential. This item will maintain a single database of up-to-date information on existing and planned infrastructure, as well as related construction activities, projects, regulations, document templates, deadlines and others. In this way, coordination of joint construction and use of physical infrastructure and the deployment of electronic communications networks should be facilitated. This, in turn, would lead not only to a lower cost of construction and repairs, but also to a reduction of inconvenience for citizens and an increase in quality of life. Last but not least, the bill provides for the annulment of Chapter 17 of the current Law on Electronic Communications on the Construction of Electronic Communications Networks. These provisions are included in Chapter 4 of this Draft Law, adapted and adapted to the new regulation, and the corresponding anachronisms and imperfections have been removed. At the same time, the Transitional and Final Provisions update and synchronise terminology and regimes in the Law on Structure of the Area related to the deployment of networks and the construction of their adjacent physical infrastructure. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds with 12 votes for the European Union, without the opposition, and with 1 vote, abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft for Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, No 602-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u164	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. The next report belongs to the Energy Commission. Mr. Dobrev, are you going to introduce us to her? Mr. Delyan Dobrev, Chairman of the Energy Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe On the draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, No 602-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2016. At its regular meeting on 21 July 2016, the Energy Commission discussed the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, No 602-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Transport: Mr. Valeri Borisov Deputy Minister of Transport, Mrs. Kalina Dimitrova, Director of the Department of Communications, Mrs. Janeta Rogova, Head of the Department of Legal Affairs. The proposed Draft introduced the requirements of Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on measures to reduce the cost of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks. Legislative provisions are proposed to provide for the collection of up-to-date information in a special database for existing and planned infrastructure, as well as to facilitate the procedures for deployment of networks and for better coordination in construction and repair activities. The measures laid down in this bill aim to make more efficient use of the existing physical infrastructure of different network operators when deploying high-speed electronic communications networks. The creation of a single information point in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which will be an electronic platform where minimal but up-to-date information will be collected from the various network operators concerning: type, location and mode of use of infrastructure, intentions for expansion and repair activities on networks, as well as contact details for the network operator concerned. The bill provides for the provision of access to physical infrastructure and its joint use between different network operators. In accordance with the requirements of the Directive, network operators shall, upon a reasoned request, grant access to their physical infrastructure in advance, clear, transparent, non-discriminatory conditions to operators of high-speed electronic communications networks. The existing reliefs related to the deployment of linear electronic communications networks have been improved, and this is done in accordance with the Law. Rules are also provided for establishing a framework for network operators' relations in the deployment of networks in the infrastructure of another operator. Electronic communications networks in buildings are also subject to the bill. In new buildings in which major repairs are to be carried out, the construction of physical infrastructure prepared for the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks will be mandatory. The bill provides for disputes to be settled by the Communications Regulation Commission. It shall be competent to rule on disputes concerning the access to and sharing of physical infrastructure, on access conditions and prices, on the deployment of networks, coordination of activities. If the dispute is related to a physical infrastructure built for the need of other networks, the Communications Regulation Commission shall adopt decisions in accordance with the opinion of the competent authorities which regulate and control the main activity of network operators. The control of this bill is carried out respectively by the Minister of Transport, Information Technologies and Communications, the Communications Regulation Commission and in some cases by the mayors. The transitional and final provisions shall set out the welded positions relating to the joint deployment of networks, giving the relevant time limits for the settlement of the relations of the network operators concerned. There are also changes related to the regulation of electronic communications networks, including terminological in a number of laws such as the Law on State Property, the Law on Structure of the Area and the Law on Floor Property Management. It is envisaged that the implementing acts of this Bill be adopted within six months of its adoption. In the subsequent discussion took the following MPs: Valeri Simeonov and Tasco Ermenov. People's representative Valeri Simeonov announced that he was taking a stand on the vote on the bill due to a conflict of interest. People's representative Tasco Ermenkov supports the bill by putting forward proposals for adjustments between the first and second votes. After the discussion was concluded and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Commission, with 11 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u166	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. The next report to be heard is a report on the Commission's first vote on legal issues. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, No 602-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2016. At its meeting on 29 June 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, No 602-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2016. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications: Mrs. Kalina Dimitrova, Director of the Department of Communications and Mrs. Geneta Rogova, Head of Department of the Directorate of Legal Communications; Mrs. Aneta Ivanova Executive Director; Mrs. Galya Marinova Executive Director; by Mrs. Galya Stanimirova. The bill was presented by Mrs. Kalina Dimitrova. The proposed Bill introduces the requirements of Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on measures to reduce the costs of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks and regulate the relations related to the deployment of electronic communications networks. The draft regulation regulates the deployment of electronic communications networks and the construction of their adjoining infrastructure, expressly providing for the possibility of providing access to and sharing of existing physical infrastructure and governing the rights and obligations of persons associated with these activities. The bill also regulates the order in which the Communications Regulation Commission settles disputes relating to the granting of access to and joint use of existing physical infrastructure. It is envisaged that the Communications Regulation Commission may designate a specialised committee with at least one legal capacity and may be drawn as members independent consultants and external experts who are included in a list established by the Communications Regulation Commission. During the discussion the MPs Emil Dimitrov and Danail Kirilov expressed their support for the bill. Mr. Kirilov stressed that the Bill attempts to codify a complex matter and pointed out that it regulates important legal issues People's representative Mihail Mikov raised the issue of the proposal for the Commission to act in certain situations as a special jurisdiction and the risk that each regulator will become one and how this will affect the role of administrative courts. In response Mrs. Kalina Dimitrova explained that as part of her powers the Communications Regulation Commission and now resolves disputes between undertakings offering electronic communications networks and/or under the Law on Electronic Communications. It also pointed out that the directive allows those powers to be granted either to a certain notifying regulatory authority or to be allocated to the other regulatory authorities, but it was decided that the Communications Regulation Commission should be the intermediate unit to resolve disputes, including voluntarily, in the order of mediation. Ms. Janeta Rogova added that this approach was preferred because of the technical expertise and opportunity for the experts working in the Communications Regulation Commission and that the Commission's decisions are subject to judicial review as an additional guarantee of control and legality. Mr. Notev noted the comparison made by the importers with mediation and the determination of this method of application of the Law as an alternative to the judicial examination of the disputes and raised a question as to whether the passage through this procedure is a mandatory prerequisite to ultimately refer the matter to the court. Mr. Kirilov explained that these are technical issues which are preliminary and whose solution benefits both the parties and the court. To a question put by Mr. Chavdar Georgiev about the very generally formulated subject of the disputes that will be resolved by the Communications Regulation Commission and whether the subject matter will be covered and the resolution of property disputes, Mrs. Janeta Rogova explained that the bill contains a much more detailed catalogue of disputes which the Communications Regulation Commission decides, apart from those listed in art. 81 of the Bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 5 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft for Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, No 602-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. The latest report on this bill is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Prodanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u169	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, No 602-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 8 September 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the above-mentioned Draft Law submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2016. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The proposed Bill introduces the requirements of Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on measures to reduce the costs of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks and regulate the relations related to the deployment of electronic communications networks. It is envisaged to remove the requirements for detailed planning when the physical infrastructure route for these networks falls within the scope of an existing route and in the waitouts of pipelines, power lines, sewerage networks and railways or other existing networks. At the same time, network operators will be obliged to provide access to and joint use of existing infrastructures under previously disclosed conditions by concluding a written contract with electronic communications network operators. The role of a body to resolve disputes arising in this regard, including when setting prices, will be taken over by the Communications Regulation Commission. The introduction of a Single Information Point, whose functions will be performed by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, is essential for achieving the objectives of the law. This item will maintain a single database of up-to-date information on existing and planned infrastructure, as well as related construction activities, projects, regulations, document templates, deadlines, etc. In this way, coordination of joint construction and use of physical infrastructure and the deployment of electronic communications networks should be facilitated. Electronic communications networks in buildings are also subject to the bill. In new buildings in which major repairs are to be carried out, the construction of physical infrastructure prepared for the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks will be mandatory. The Transitional and Final Provisions update and synchronise terminology and regimes in the Law on Structure of the Area related to the deployment of networks and the construction of their adjacent physical infrastructure. In the submission of the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria are proposed several substantial editorials of the texts, with particular attention in the course of the discussion by the speakers of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria was addressed to art. 18, para. 3. The purpose of the proposal is to compare public and private property with the possibility of the owner of the public sites of the municipalities to receive one-off compensation for the service rights arising under the Law in favour of operators of electronic communications networks. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote being held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 9 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u170	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. This was the last report from the committees. On behalf of Mr. Deputy Minister, you are entitled to an opinion. You don't want to. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will personally support the bill. I have a few remarks that I'm going to make between the two readings. I will draw attention to one or two notes that are more technical, but one of them bothers me more, as it may be unconstitutional. In relation to the smaller remarks, for example, in art. 6, which is related to access to the data in the building design register, it has been paid. We give free access to the conciliatory committees. Perhaps we should add the court, as the court also has free access. I think it's a resonant change. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 is referred to the provision of information and data about an area, without being specified what the "region" or other unit of measurement means. It's very common. It's not in the units. In relation to the unconstitutionality............................................................................................. 32. It defines the types of waitresses. It was also in the old law, but the new Law provides for a restriction of the right of use of property to be governed by a regulation, and it is very clear in the Constitution that it should be determined by law and not by a legal act. There's a concern about unconstitutionality here. I'll have suggestions between the two readings. I also have a few other small remarks. I think the Law is good and helps the activities of stakeholders, facilitates it, thus enabling a more competitive environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u172	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement, I give the floor to the MP Ahmed Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is apparent from the reasons of the Draft Law on electronic communications networks and physical infrastructure that it is drawn up in connection with the introduction into national legislation of the provisions of Directive 61/2014 of the European Union on measures to reduce the costs of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks and the implementation of regulations laying down the requirements for deployment of electronic communications networks and the construction of their adjacent infrastructure. In addition to the introduction of European legislation and updating the existing provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications, the aim of the proposed bill is to regulate rules for ensuring access to existing infrastructure, including other types of networks, as well as planning, construction, deployment and use of physical infrastructure. The need to adopt this bill stems from the problems identified in the practical implementation of the current regime for the deployment of electronic communications networks, creating legal uncertainty and prerequisites for administrative litigation. The practical importance of the bill is related to the regulation of how energy networks will be used for the needs of telecommunications. As the basics of the bill, we would define the following moments: Firstly, a reduction of some of the procedures relating to the deployment of high-speed cable electronic communications networks by removing the requirements for detailed spatial plans. Secondly, the provision of a chapter regulating the granting of rights and waitouts related to the construction of physical infrastructure and the deployment of networks. The right of access to and joint use of physical infrastructure by other network operators is in place. Third, it is an obligation for network operators to provide access to and shared use of existing infrastructure under conditions previously disclosed on their website, including the price at which the contract was concluded. The right to pass the special use of roads has been introduced on the basis of one-off compensation. Fifth, dropping the requirement to approve a scheme plan to the detailed planning plan for the construction of receiving transmission stations on wireless electronic communications networks and their adjacent infrastructure. Sixth, not least, the Communications Regulation Commission to play the role of a dispute resolution body related to providing access to existing infrastructure, including setting access prices, coordination, construction and others. We at the DPS will support the Bill at first reading. It is undisputed that such a type of bill is necessary not only because of lack of transposition but also because of an objective need to optimize costs when building and developing a different type of network, which has significant economic and organisational consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Ahmedov. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other MPs willing to speak on the bill? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the first vote the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, No 602-01-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 June 2016. 88 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 8. With this, the bill was adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u175	Honourable Members, we are going to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE INDEPENDENT FINANCIAL AUDIT. Importer was the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. He was accepted in the first vote on 14 July 2016. Second reading report. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u176	I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall of representatives of the Commission for public oversight of the registered auditors Mrs. Vanya Doneva, President, and Mr. Genko Nikolov, Methodologist.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u177	We are voting on the proposal for admission in this House. Vote 71 MPs: 67 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u178	A report on the Independent Financial Audit Bill, No 602-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016 and adopted at the first vote on 14 July 2016. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. The Commission supports the text of the importer for the name of the Law. ..................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part One. "Chapter 1" - Subject matter, scope and definition. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u179	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, the name of Part One and the name of Chapter One. Vote 72 MPs: 70, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u180	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1, by offering in t. 2 the words.. the conclusions of..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u181	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 1 on the Commission report. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Please read the titles of the respective members.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u182	"The purpose of the financial audit" art. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2. "Financial audit" art. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3. "Instruction of the financial audit" art. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u183	Are there any statements under art. 2, 3 and 4? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as Articles 2 to 4 including those supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 78 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u184	"Acceptances to be applied to the reporting framework'. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. (1) The financial reporting frameworks applicable shall be: 1. a common framework for financial reporting regulating general financial statements for a wide range of users; 2. a specific financial reporting framework regulating reports for specific users. (2) The general frameworks for financial reporting shall be: 1. a reporting framework for credible presentation containing at least one of the following confirmations: (a) confirm explicitly or by default that the management of the audited entity may need to submit further disclosures in order to achieve a credible presentation of the financial statement; (b) expressly confirm that the management of the audited entity may need to deviate from a requirement of the general framework to achieve a credible presentation of the financial statement; 2. a common framework for compliance which does not contain the confirmations under point 2. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u185	Thank you. Statements under art. Five? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for art. 5. Vote 78 MPs: 76, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u186	supplied audit and performance audit. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6. "Registered auditors." Under art. 7 has a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7, by offering in para. 3, p. 2 and 3 words "one or more" shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u187	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, for art. 6 as well as the text of the importer and a proposal from the Commission for art. 7. Vote 75 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u188	"Instructions for the pursuit of the profession of a registered auditor'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8, by offering in the name and in para. 1 the words "the profession of a registered auditor" shall be replaced by "the profession of auditor" and in para. 2 the word "Activity" to be replaced by "Profession." "Professional standards." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9, by offering in para. 2 the words "in carrying out a compulsory financial audit and for the audit services within the meaning of this Law" shall be deleted and in para. 3 the words "Professional services' by applying the requirements of other professionals' to be replaced by other financial audit entities other than statutory audit and audit services by applying the requirements of other audit firms.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u189	Thank you. Statements under art. Eight and nine? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, for art. Article 8 and Article 8 9. Vote 78 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u190	"Professional ethics." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10. "Professional secret." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11, by proposing that the words of his employees, collaborators, experts and all others should be replaced by...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u191	Statements under art. 10 and 11? I won't. We vote on the importer's anblock text, supported by the Commission, for art. 10 and 11. Vote 79 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u192	Public supervision of the registered auditors. Under art. 12 there is a proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Valeri Simeonov, Christian Mitev, Julian Angelov, Atanas Stoyanov, Valentin Kasabov, Slavcho Atanasov and Sultanka Petrova. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2 and 3: "2." Alinea 2, t. Three down. 3. In para. 3 the words........................................................................................................... The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Public supervision of registered auditors Art. 12. (1) The public oversight of registered auditors shall be carried out by the Commission. (2) The supervision under para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 53 1. the professional activity of the registered auditors; 2. the activities of the IDEC in the cases referred to in this Law; 3. the activities of audit committees in undertakings of public interest. (3) The Commission shall be the competent authority for the regulation and supervision of registered auditors in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u193	Thank you. Speeches, honourable colleagues? I won't. First, we are voting on a proposal of the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs for para. 2 in the unsupported part of the t. Two and three. We are voting, honourable Members, not supported by the Commission, a proposal. Vote 74 MPs: 12, against 30, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members, I shall put to the vote the text of the importer edited by the Commission for art. 12. We are voting in favour of a proposal supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u194	"Chapter 2" - Acquire the competence of a graduate accountant expert and of a registered auditor. Recognition of European Union registered auditors and third country auditors. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. "Requirements to be applied." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: "Requirements for application" Art. 13. (1) A qualified accountant and a registered auditor may apply for a person of good reputation. (2) For the acquisition of a qualified accountant expert, an applicant may apply for a person who holds: 1. accounting-economic education with an education degree of Master and 4 years of professional experience; 2. accounting-economic education with an education degree of Bachelor's degree and 5 years of professional experience; 3. other higher economic education and 7 years of professional experience; 4. another higher education and 10 years of professional experience. (3) Professional internship under para. 2 is an internship in accounting, internal audit, external audit and financial inspection, as an authority of the National Revenue Agency, as an inspector in the Commission or as a lecturer in a higher school in accounting, control and finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u195	Thank you. Statements on Chapter 2 and Article 2. 13? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, a text of the importer supported by the Commission for Chapter Two, as well as a text of the importer edited by the Commission for art. 13. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u196	"Requirement for preliminary exams of a graduate accountant-acquainted expert" art. 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14. "Experiences for an expert-acquired accountant" "Art. 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15, by offering in para. 1, t. 1 the words "International Financial Reporting Standards" shall be replaced by "International Accounting Standards."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u197	Thank you. Statements on the proposed members? I won't. We vote on the importer's enblock text, supported by the Commission, for Articles 14 and 15. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u198	"Practical training for admission to a financial audit exam of a candidate for a graduate accountant expert" "Art. 16. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: "Sixteenth" para. 2 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16, proposing that in the name after the words.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... "Diploma and registration of an expert-acquirer" "Art. 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u199	Thank you. Speeches, honourable colleagues? I won't. First, I put to the vote a proposal from the MP Mr. Bajraktarov and a group of MPs for art. 16 which is not supported by the Commission. We are voting unsupported by the Commission for a proposal. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u200	There's a problem with the voting system.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u201	Please, the Quaestors, there's a forest of raised hands. There's a problem with the system. Any luck with all the coworkers? Vote 74 MPs: 5 against 32, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. Now, honourable Members, we are voting on a text of the importer, supported by the Commission for art. 16 as well as the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 17. We are voting for texts supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u202	"Acquired capacity of a registered auditor" "Art. 18. Proposal of the National Representative Bajraktarov and a group of MPs: 18, para. 2 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: "Acquiring of a registered auditor's competence Art. 18. (1) A graduated accountant expert shall acquire the right to sign audit reports with an opinion on financial statements after three years of practical training in the audit of annual financial statements or other financial statements and after its entry in the register under art. 20. (2) In the cases referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 practical training under para. 1 should be no less than two years. (3) The requirement for practical training under para. 1 shall not apply where the training referred to in Article 1. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 is not less than three years.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u203	Thank you. Statements under art. 18? There aren't any. I put to the vote, honourable Members, a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. I put to the vote an unsupported proposal. Vote 72 MPs: 9 against 34, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for art. 18. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u204	"Practical training" "Art. 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19, by offering in para. 1 words.............................................................................. 16, 18 and "Register of the registered auditors" "Art. 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20, by offering in para. 1 the words "the Register" shall be deleted; in para. 4 Finally, the words answer the requirements of para. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 5 after the words "al." In paragraph 3, the following paragraph is added: 6 at the beginning of the sentence second to add
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-28.u205	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any speeches under Articles 19 and 20? I won't. I shall put to the vote a text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 19 as well as the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 20. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. So far, we're going to look at the Bill due to running out of time for work. I am adjourning today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
