ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Ladies and gentlemen, according to yesterday's weekly programme, today as point one, we are about to discuss and vote: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ENERGY. Importers are Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. The report of the Energy Commission is presented. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! First, I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mr. Zhecho Stankov "Deputy Minister and Mrs. Gergana Peneva" General Consultant at the Ministry of Energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u3	We are voting on this proposal. Vote 137 MPs: 132 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the guests.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u4	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act No 654-01-66, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov on 17 May 2016. At its regular meeting held on 19 May 2016, the Energy Commission discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act submitted on 17 May 2016 by Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy Mr. Zhecho Stankov Deputy Minister of Energy; Ms. Gergana Peneva and Mrs. Lucia Balakchieva. Ivan Ivanov, Chairman. On the part of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, expressing the reasons for the need for its adoption. It has been pointed out that the Energy System Security Fund has demonstrated its key importance for improving the financial situation of NEK the public electricity supplier and hence the entire energy sector. The proposal envisions the introduction of a 5% contribution to the Electricity System Security Fund (ESO) and Bulgartransgaz. Such a proposal was discussed at the establishment of the Fund in 2015, but was left for a later stage. The contribution shall be introduced in order to expand the Fund's revenue base with a view to market liberalisation. In the last year, there has been a decrease in the price of the free electricity market, which imposes higher costs for the Fund in order to cover the differences between market and preferential prices and prices for long-term contracts. The power system operator and Bulgartransgaz are in good financial condition and this will not have a significant impact on their financial performance. The calculations show that the expected additional revenue in the Fund amounts to 17 million. lv. By the Electricity System Operator and 13 million lv. from Bulgartransgaz. The contribution entered will not have a negative impact on operators' investments in the modernisation and development of the network. With the change in art. 36f, para. 2 The way of submitting information on monthly income by the debtors to the Fund is improved. The current text does not allow the final results for monthly revenues to be reflected, as the data are subject to settlement adjustment, which is not ready by the 5th of the month. Support with regard to the bill spoke the present representatives of the Ministry of Energy and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee, with 11 votes for the Energy Act, No 654-01-66, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov on 17 May 2016, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov on 17 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u5	On behalf of the importers, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u6	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, to a large extent, the reasons have been set out in the report I have just read. The logic of the proposal is to expand the revenue base in the Fund. The reason for this is that in the last year we saw a decrease in the price of electricity on the free market from an average of about 73 BGN. up to BGN 70 calculated by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. That's 3 leva. a difference in the market price of electricity means that the Fund must compensate by 3 BGN. more for each megawatt hour produced electricity from long-term contracts and contracts with preferential prices. This, of course, means greater costs for the Fund and if they are calculated through consumption in the country, which is about 33 teravat hours multiplied by 3 BGN, means additional costs of the Fund around 100 million. lv. Of course, thanks to all the changes made by the National Assembly over the last year, as well as the re-negotiation of long-term contracts, the signing of agreements that have already entered into force, thanks to full-scale payments from NEK by US power plants, there are savings that have also been reported in the direction of lower revenues for the Energy Security Fund. With the introduction of this 5% contribution to two of the companies that did not have such an obligation so far, an additional amount of around 30 million will be generated. lv. As already stated and read by me in the report lv. By the Electricity System Operator and 13 million lv. from Bulgartransgaz. These are companies that, in recent years, especially in the latter, generate significant profits, companies that are in an enviable financial situation. In this sense, the 5% contribution will not affect the size of their investments and the modernisation and development of the network. Only this contribution will have an insignificant, negative effect on their financial result. The changes we have proposed are supported by both the Ministry of Energy and the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Their adoption is urgent in view of the fact that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission sets prices for the new regulatory period from 1 July. We must do everything possible in the National Assembly to adopt or reject these texts by 1 July in order for the regulator to take them into account. This proposal, in addition to increasing the revenue from the Fund, will allow them to be used instead of the alternative option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today we are once again witnessing the crack of another bubble in the management of GERB in the field of energy. Once again, our warnings came true from a year ago that this way of governance would not have sufficient sustainability, that the collection of money from certain enterprises in energy, mostly state, for payment with other enterprises in energy, and only private, could not bring stability to the system. The Mantra's liberalization of the electricity market is a panacea for the system and a guarantee of lower prices is another attempt to deceive the Bulgarian people, because if it were true, we would not have to make another urgent legislative change now. Because today, when electricity prices on the free market fall, paradoxically explain how they would rise to the end consumer in Bulgaria. Moreover, I do not know how to characterize something that seems to me another paradoxical solution again in a country where the ruling right-wing majority must conduct right-wing policies that liberalise a market rather than impose additional taxes on it. And I'm really wondering how things can be offered at the last moment, and things that have been clear for a long time, I say, a year ago we warned you about this. Moreover, how can things be offered that are in dubious conformity with the Constitution for equality between private and state property? I'll try to argue. In your proposal, gentlemen of importers, you are only talking about the transmission network operator, which means you are only talking about the ECO. And I think that you colleagues here are aware that the difference between transmission and distribution is not in anything other than what tension is being transported or whether it is high, whether it is medium and low. And when we're going to talk about imposing a 5-percent transfer fee, I'm asking the question what's going on with the distribution? Why are we forgetting him? It is the same process, the same service that is carried out by commercial enterprises, only in one case it is a transfer of energy high voltage, and in the other case it is called distribution, because it is the same transport of electricity, but already at medium and low voltage. There's no difference between the two! The same applies to the transport of gas. Here the difference is not the voltage, the difference is the pressure. I would like to ask the question why and for what reason we are again imposing additional payments on state companies and we forget that we also have electricity distribution companies which, in the same way, need to be taxed if we are going to benefit the state So if we're going to put five percent on the transmission, we're going to have to put five percent on the distribution. I don't see any other logic. And if the logic really is to raise a little more money from the state to pay off the privates, I don't mind, but say it, explicitly say it, that it is about the ESO and about the Bulgartransgaz. In the law, write it down, not the motives. Then it will become clear that we are going against these companies, that once again we treat the state property as a sack of flour. We are talking about the fact that TPP Maritsa East 1 and TPP Maritsa East 3 are not burdened. They don't care whether they're going to be loaded or not, because the cold reserve is already being paid in volume and prices that don't allow anything to be missed with them. Among other things, we took out a loan to pay off these plants and promised that we would have 60 million. savings per year from the re-negotiation with them, but you failed to inform us that the rates we will be paying per year are almost equal to those savings. We put 5% of the generation of energy, of which some two thirds are the revenues from state enterprises - NPP, TPP - Maritsa Iztok 2 - from the fathers of NEK. And, I'm sorry, the five percent to pay for Maritsa East 1 and Maritsa East 3 is still being paid for by NEK! I mean, the country again. We are now trying to make sure that state-owned enterprises dealing with transport do not use the words transport and distribution, because it is about transport in its various qualities, we are taxing them with 5% of the revenues for this service and for access, and at the same time for the electricity distribution companies that also carry out such transport activities, there is no such taxation. And the gas distribution, of course, I mean. I'm asking you, why are we doing this thing? And if we have to mention by name which enterprises we are talking about, this is from the point of view of energy, electricity, the state ESO for transport and the ERPs through EVN Energo-Pro, Sunny coast for distribution. For gas transmission networks it is also about the transport of those additional gas companies that are semi-municipal, semi-municipal, semi-municipal, semi-municipal, semi-municipal, semi-municipal, semi-municipal, semi-municipal, semi-municipal, overgas distribution companies and so on. I ask, where is the constitutionality of this decision in the division of ownership? That is, there is no difference here in what I am telling you, except for the exact type of ownership, whether it is state or private. We're putting the state down, we're missing the private one. And how long are we gonna keep this up? How long are we gonna turn state power into a milk cow? Colleagues, I understand that the cost of electricity is something that worries everyone. I understand that you and your leader continue to be haunted by the ghost of 17 February 2013, when hundreds of thousands of people went out into the streets to express their hot love for you and your government. I understand that in all these failures that currently exist in both economics and health and education, and so on, an increase in the price of electricity will come in excess and perhaps become that feather that will break the camel's back and, through the hands of the thousands, the hundreds of thousands on the streets will once again become a reality. But do not practice on the back of the state and state energy. She can't handle everything! After all, the consequences that will result will not be as pink as you speak to us and in the motives. Even here, the President of the Commission, reading the reasons, failed to say that it would not have a significant negative impact. You missed the word negative, but then you said it as an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u9	I said it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u10	We listen very carefully, very carefully! So I'd like to ask: where is the limit between significant and minor negative influences so that we can talk that everything is okay and pink? Colleagues, I very much ask you, that if we go to accept this amendment of the Energy Act, we could compromise, because we too, at the time when we discussed the five percent, had offered you an even wider scale of taxation in order to really have money in this fund and to have a level playing field between all the energy companies in the sector and the electricity and gas sector. And it's not every time we patch it up and patch it up like we're doing right now, because that's exactly what we're doing right now. We could compromise and support this bill at second reading on the following condition. We will make a written proposal between first and second readings and, although this is not the time here, I just want to warn you and inform you exactly how things will look. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 of your proposal we will add: 4 we will add the gas and gas distribution network operators to the text. It's the only compromise we can make. Otherwise, we see no reason to separate the state from private property, except that we will try again to get on the back of the state, to try again to shake away as a sack of flour, as I have already said, and the state, colleagues, in the end, is all of us and those we represent in this Parliament. For this reason the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria will refrain from voting on this bill. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Is there a line to Mr. Ermenkov's emotional statement? I can't see. For a statement there is the word of the MP Martin Dimitrov from the Reformation Bloc. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! What I don't like about the debate that has begun, and forgive my voice, as there is some flu obviously, but anyway, it is the denial of energy reform. I understand that a person should be critical, but when you are critical of measures that produce good results so far, it is simply unfair and unfair. What we need to take into account so far is that the Committee on Energy in a constructive tone, including with BSP colleagues, to my great surprise, we have managed to make important measures together in energy. And now that colleagues come out here and say that nothing is done, it's just not fair, at least because problems are solved, bequeathed by the past, including mostly, I would say, from the mandate of the Triple Coalition. What are the facts? Very simple. In 2014, and you should know this, fellow Members, the NEK deficit is 586 million. lv. Such a deficit left us with the Oresharski cabinet 586 million. lv. NEC deficiency. This is not even the tariff deficit that is higher. In 2015, there was a serious risk of 586 million. lv. At 216 million. lv. deficiency. This is more than a double reduction in the deficit in the system. For the first quarter of 2016, NEK is at a profit of 39 million. lv. By the way, it is early to talk and to say that NEK from now on will be profitable, but at least we can take into account until now that NEK's deficit has been severely reduced. This has not been achieved by any government so far and by any parliament, I would say, above all. How did we do that? First of all, we have decided this time, for a variety of reasons, that the Commission of Energy and Water Regulation should become an honest person, to see what happens. The results so far are very positive. For the boss, for the chairman of the KEWRC even BSP and DPS admit that he is an honest man. Not that honest people don't make mistakes, of course, but they have the right approach to solving problems. Next, a net specific production of RES was introduced, which reduced the consumption for own use of RES plants. This is a direct cost reduction measure. I am telling you this for a reason because Ovcharov the strategist is soon speaking in the media and said that there are no measures to reduce energy costs. By the way, the strategist Ovcharov is clearly highly appreciated by GERB party because he continues to be the representative of the state in Lukoil. Therefore, it should be quoted as being highly appreciated by its own party, first of all, and by other parties. This means that it should be quoted on important key issues. So, the strategist Ovcharov said that there is no cost reduction in Bulgarian energy, which is obviously not true and I continue to prove it with facts. Together we closed the door for new RESs, which many people claimed was obvious, but no one wanted to do it, no one wanted to do this job. This Parliament made it yes, it was difficult, with some questions and details, we only set preferential prices for small roof installations up to 30 kilos. The door for new RES was closed by this Parliament, which was a key, extremely important solution, as the European objectives have been reached. Next, we introduced the requirement that the amount of energy produced from renewable energy at preferential prices be bought at a price for surplus or that producers implement it on the free market again a measure which we first made together and which no previous government was a rule, only talked about on this topic. We have reduced NEK's cost of buying high-performance electricity from heat efficiency plants and plant plants, including the installation of... and control equipment must be installed, and fines will soon be introduced for those companies that have not done so. By the way, using the plural, I recognise in this case the contribution of the Ministry of Energy, the KEWRC, and especially the Committee on Energy in Parliament. As has already become clear, NEK's credit agreement through BEH for the two US power plants has been finalised, which has led to a reduction in costs. So, colleagues, I can continue with the enumeration. I would like to conclude by introducing better control into the Bulgarian energy sector, introducing the possibility that ADFIs will check the financial inspection, which has not been carried out quite purposefully so far. The combined effect of all these measures together is a decisive reduction of the deficit. That is why, fellow Members, I refer to you as a person who is also often criticized. We have the right and we have to criticize. We need to be self-critical, we need to be critical of others, only the truth is this. Unlike other reforms that we do not see, energy reform has started and gives its first positive results. That's why I'm addressing all my colleagues in Parliament! Come on, fellow Members, let's value our own efforts, because behind this reform, 90% stood, not to say 100% of the Energy Commission. Together we have stood behind these measures and we are already seeing the first positive results. Of course, criticize, but let us appreciate our own efforts and the first positive results in energy, which many people thought could not happen that they could not. I want to finish this. Any good idea, any good reform can be compromised. The good results we see so far will mean nothing if serious mistakes are made from now on. For example, I hear and see that the idea of Kozloduy's 7th block has been revived. When the electricity goes down, when the consumption goes down, I see that there are people who are thinking in that direction again. I see that there are people who have not stopped with the idea of Belene not for a moment. One of these things being realized without the necessary forecasts for consumption, one of these things could seriously shake the security of the energy system and compromise the good results so far. Colleagues, I will support the proposed Draft and I will be extremely critical of any measure from now on, which will be in the opposite direction of the reforms undertaken so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. A line of the speech of the MP Dimitrov? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, yes, you have done a lot to close the hole in energy, adequate measures have been taken. The only thing that provokes me to replicate you is your mention of the little RESs. Last week there were about 40-50 owners of such small RESs that were in front of parliament here, because with the changes we adopted in the Energy Act last year - § 18, which we all know limits the right to business for them. We are talking about micro enterprises, about small entrepreneurs - 273 are, which we are now somehow pushing them into bankruptcy. They asked either for the annulment of § 18 or at least to be redirected to the KEWRC, which is the regulator that can actually say for each investor what it has done, what its price should be, as it is for other enterprises. So, personally, when I heard that there was going to be a change in the Energy Act, I was hoping there would be such a direction, and we, as right-wing politicians, have to fight for small and medium-sized businesses, for more entrepreneurs. Because these aren't people who somehow rely on the social system or on something else, they create jobs, we're talking about 1,000 people directly affected, about 3-4 thousand indirectly affected, for which we need to find some way to help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Second line, Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, you missed in the list of successes an extremely important success, and this is that this government has currently overcome three mediators of gas supplies for Bulgaria. I repeat, three middlemen! Over 300 million. the dollar each year is the savings for the state by these intermediaries. I think it was very important to say this because not a single government until now, no matter what it has been to the SDS once upon a time, neither the NDSV nor the BSP four governments have been able to achieve this success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u17	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Third line? I can't see. Right on the back of the jacket, Mr. Dimitrov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I'll start with my colleague Nastimir Ananiev. For the little RES, colleagues, we had this situation. Companies receiving a European subsidy at the same time receive a high preferential price. It just wasn't fair and it wasn't fair. You can't get a high European subsidy and then get a high preferential price. Therefore, the Commission has taken a decision to balance or to seek balancing of this issue. Now I understand that there is serious discontent, there are protests, but when these people come to me, I tell them the following thing: give me the bills; give me the accounts to convince us that the Commission's decision is not right; and if you convince us, we are reasonable people, and we will be willing to reconsider it. However, I say this to them when you want to assess your return, take aside the European subsidy, don't count it twice; you want to have received a European subsidy at the same time and then get that money back from the depreciation, provided that you didn't make it. That is, give us honest accounts of the costs incurred and convince us that the Commission's decision, which was taken almost unanimously, is not fair. Because we have to do this, fellow Members, we have to make fair decisions. It is not right to allow companies in a given sector to receive both a high European subsidy and then a high preferential price. Because it's just not fair! Others would ask us why these ones and others? Just because it's not fair! On the subject of Mr. Atanasov, I would say the following. Yes, the removal of intermediaries in energy, in some segments of energy, was a good move. I would say that an even better move is the search for its own sources of oil and gas in the Black Sea, realizing that this is a long process, that it will not be resolved in a year or two, but will take more years. However, this is the right direction. The direction of diversification from here on. Therefore, today we do not need to deny all this reform, we need its continuation and deepening. And where there are enough other sectors where reforms are not there for good reason all critical remarks must be made. But here, as I have already told you, seeing the concrete results, seeing the reduction of NEK's deficit in times, although it is early to talk about NEK's profit, I agree, but seeing the reduction of NEK's deficit in times, let's evaluate our own efforts and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Anybody else want to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! In connection with the debate that is being held for small power plants, the RES from the Rural Development Programme will only say a few words. The European Union has launched a criminal procedure against Bulgaria. It was $29 million. EUR on the basis of the calculation of the allowance to be received by these power plants over a longer period of time. After long negotiations and correction by the plenary of prices for small power plants, renewable energy plants, built with funds from the Rural Development Programme, the penal procedure was brought down to 4.5 million. If we now take a step in this direction, I am afraid, Mr. Ananiev, that we will have a criminal procedure again from Brussels, so the lack of a proposal to increase prices when changing the Law is currently correct. Let us not forget that these power plants received a subsidy, as Mr. Martin Dimitrov said, amounting to 80% of the investment costs incurred for their construction. Let us comply with the rules of the European Union, take into account the criminal procedure that can follow for Bulgaria and in this sense explain in a normal and understandable way to the owners of these 273 plants that the rules are such and they cannot expect an increase in the price of electricity they produce and sell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u22	Thank you. Dear Mr. Hristov, what do we do when these companies fail? How much money will the Bulgarian state have to return to the European Union? I suppose this is also calculated because now several companies have gone bankrupt and slowly but gloriously, they will go bankrupt. Small and medium-sized enterprises themselves and entrepreneurs who have decided to take any steps have done absolutely nothing illegal. They had a checkup, they were checked out, and for everyone so far, there's not a single case where they've gone out and said there's some kind of violation here, someone's lied, someone's cheated. Whoever lied and cheated should have the consequences. Why should we punish honest entrepreneurs who have used whatever opportunities the state has provided and actually restrict the way they do business? If we give such a signal to the business, how will we stimulate new entrepreneurs? For me, small and medium-sized enterprises and people who create their own businesses that create their own jobs must be stimulated, the state must help them all because they give added value to the economy itself. These are people who support the country's economy. Right now we're limiting them at a fixed price. Why don't we let the regulator set the price for each of them depending on... Here, even Mr. Dimitrov mentioned the calculations and the accounts they will have to show them through this regulator. It's not about raising their price, it's about giving them a chance...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u23	The weather, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u24	...and give them the opportunity to assess precisely these investments, costs and revenues. But if they fail the Bulgarian state will pay a lot and you know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u25	Thank you. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u26	Dear Mr. Hristov, although the debate is not at all on the subject, I will allow myself a line. You neglected to say that these producers, except that they were financed under the Rural Programme and that they threatened a criminal procedure for financing them from two sources to recover the same investment, as Mr. Martin Dimitrov said, they used the preferential price for three years in full. So they were getting £699. instead of only receiving the part that corresponds to their real investment without the help of the European Union. For three years they instead received 200 leva. They received £699 per megawatt hour. and now to claim that in those three years, when they received three times the price they were supposed to receive, they failed to recover the loans that were normally 5-6-year-olds and almost bankrupt, sorry, sounds very unserious. In this direction, it should be noted that there will hardly be a procedure by the European Commission for bankrupt companies. About 1200 people are said to be working in these around 200 enterprises, while at the same time there are 200 such investments in photovoltaics. At the same time, there are the same 400-500 small enterprises that have made investments entirely with their own funds. Please, when we talk about this, let us be completely honest and show the facts. Do you think they can have a choice? We are not opposed to them having a choice and not being at a fixed price. Now they are at a fixed price twice as high as the market price, although they have invested only 25% of the funds and are about 113 BGN, provided that the market price is about 60 BGN. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If they want a choice, they can go to the free market and sell their energy at 60 leva. Nobody forbids them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u27	Before I give a third reply, I will ask the honourable Members for the following: we are coming out of the subject of the Bill we are looking at, namely an amendment of the Bill relating to an increase in the Energy Security Fund, with the taxation of 5% of the two state-owned enterprises. Here we start treating the issue of small RES (renewable energy sources). The topic is very interesting, but today the debate is not on the whole topic................................................................................... Third line? I won't. It's a hole. You don't have time, do you want a time extension? Yeah. Please extend the time. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u28	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'm not going to agree with any of the things Mr. Ananiev said. The monitoring period of those undertakings established under the Rural Development Programme shall be five years. With more than 90 percent of them it ends this year, so sanctions do not wait. On the other hand, built enterprises, but for one reason or another, do not operate, are not sanctioned if the installations have not been dismantled and the property has not been sold. There is an understanding on the part of the State Fund...................................................................................................... I've had multiple conversations. They have been at discussions and hearings in the Committee on Agriculture and Food, and from there we have a firm promise that there will be no sanctions and there will be no return of the funds received either by the beneficiaries or by the state to the European Union. Therefore, these concerns do not stand before us. In terms of job creations. I know pretty well the structure of these enterprises. There are no jobs there, but a person who at the end of the month breaks an invoice, so we do not deprive our economy of jobs that reveal these small businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. The word has the People's Representative Magdalena Tasheva from the Parliamentary Group of "Attacka."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u30	Since Roman times, the rule is that a single person's law cannot be passed whether it is physical or legal. In this case, we have an example of toxic lobbying legislation that violates the Law on Regulatory Acts. This is a law by which the parliament decides to rob millions of two state-owned enterprises and pour them into two private foreign offshore companies. That is the goal and it is stated quite frankly! It is said that ESO and Bulgargaz are in good financial condition and that we are taking from a 17 million. BGN, and from the other. "Bulgartransgaz "................................. 13 million.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... BGN, it was not very significant to worsen their financial indicators and their prospects for investment and modernisation. This money will be taken and poured into the two US thermal power plants in the East Sea Basin. The other day we paid them 1 billion, which generations of Bulgarians will pay, we will now give millions more, because here are provided for 30 million, because they are Americans and have been tricked to pay big bribes in 2000 to secure these long-term contracts for mandatory electricity purchase! By the way, how long will the Prime Minister use Parliament as a mop?! Let him take responsibility and say: I decided to rob from my businesses the ESO and the Bulgartransgaz and pour it into the accounts of the Americans. You'll remember how much I've collected as a commission because these things are settled this way!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u31	I'll ask you without qualifications, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u32	I resent the claim that this toxic legislation has been adopted with almost complete unanimity! Not at all! In the Energy Committee there were violent debates and should, Mr. Dobrev, be reflected in your report. This is not a committee report. Here you repeated your motives, but they are, how do you say, invalid. There's no law, there's no rule, there's no logic in taking from your own state enterprises and pouring into the accounts of two foreign offshore companies! Then you could not explain anything else very important: why the electricity supply service, i.e. the ESO, should be placed with 5% and the electricity distribution service should not! Well, it's very simple, because you have to take money from electricity distribution companies at 5%. And the ERPs are foreign, they're still private, even though CEZ is state-owned. So you don't dare touch their interests, but look, the two state companies that, despite the unfavorable conjuncture, win, they can be robbed! That's your logic! That's why the Ataka Party voted against. By the way, I'm the only one who voted against it. There are also three who voted in the Commission abstentions from the BSP, which is also not. And 11 votes for............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And it is for us to rob from the Bulgartransgaz and from the ESO millions and pour them into the accounts of the two foreign offshore companies in the East Sea Basin. That is why we are against it, but I believe that being against it is too insufficient in this case! This bill must be thrown into the basket because it is a typical example of lobbying and custom legislation, as a result of which some of you have become very rich!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u33	Thank you for your emotional statement, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u34	It's not emotional! Don't characterize me!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u35	Please! I even reminded you and told you not to qualify.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u36	Don't tell me what to do!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u37	If you had continued, I would have taken your word away. You want a line, Mr. Dobrev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u38	Dear Mrs. Tasheva, I'm going to take the liberty of giving you a line despite the risk of provoking you and exciting me more than we've heard. I want to explain something very professionally. The funds that will go to the Energy Security Fund are not funds that will be paid to US power plants or any other companies. These funds are in order not to increase the obligation to society by one lev. The one who will benefit from these funds is the Bulgarian business and the Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises, which cannot benefit from the regulation, which reduces the burden of the industry by 85%. The options are two: if this legislation is not adopted, for the whole business in Bulgaria we raise 1 lev of the obligation to society. The other option is: we adopt this legislation and we do not raise with one lev the obligation of the Bulgarian business to society. This one lev, or we have to pay it through this legislation, the 5% of the two state-owned companies, or the Bulgarian business has to pay them. And the bills to the American power plants, to this one and to that one, you very rightly said that it was signed back in 2001 in June. Even then, this account has been signed, and we'll be paying for it for another ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u39	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Second line? I can't see. Mrs. Tasheva, you have the right to the back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u40	We still couldn't find out. Mr. Dobrev, why do you have to raise the price? Well, enter into negotiations with the Americans in question, Caymanski, Seychelles and so on TPPs, and negotiate a fairer price.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u41	We have a deal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u42	This should be done, not to frighten the people, that if you do not rob their businesses, you will rob the households or businesses themselves. Explain until when, how long will we continue to slave to these two energy vampires? When will a case be filed to investigate these corruption contracts? We know who signed them. Secondly, let us say to the Bulgarian taxpayers that this fund was not designed that way. Let the Bulgarian citizens know that formally both TPP and TPP give 5%, then quietly the National Electricity Company is obliged to return them. Make it look like they're on an equal footing with the other energy companies, but they're not.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u43	Again with the long-term contracts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u44	So either the regulation of this fund and absolutely all companies to pay 5%, or what is being done here is a real crime against the interests of the Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u45	The word for speech is the MP from GERB's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Valentin Nikolov. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov. After him Mr. Ramadan Atali.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that the importers did not sign the long-term contracts with the TPP Maritsa East 1s and TPP Maritsa East 3s and not the importers of this Law have signed such clauses that all future costs will be borne by the National Electricity Company and not the importers of this Law have placed all the consumer accounts in that if there is a claim to the National Electricity Company, these accounts will go to a new Escrow account where they will be collected until a possible arbitration case is settled. So we can't be accused of lobbying because we're not party to these contracts, we didn't write them or defend them. We're trying to solve a problem right now. Where does the problem really come from? Because electricity prices are currently very low on the European market. Why are they short? Firstly, because Ukraine, on the basis of the Agreement with the European Union and the forthcoming association, can sell electricity on the European market. It currently has five nuclear plants, which are of the kind of NPP. That is, they currently have a sufficiently low cost of electricity so that they can influence the price of electricity. Secondly, the price of hydrocarbons. We know that it is low enough and currently gas and diesel plants in Italy, Greece, in Turkey, those countries that consume our electricity the most, especially our electricity, are currently operating. That is, they fill their deficits with their own energy production. This inevitably puts pressure on all electricity and it is more than 30% lower than the same period last year. This immediately affects our exports. At the moment, our exports are dramatically less in quantity than in last year. This is where the following effect comes from: this energy security fund, which together, the entire parliament voted August last year, cannot actually fill the deficit in the National Electricity Company. This is exactly what we are trying to do and create this buffer for the new price period, because if these electricity prices continue, this problem continues to be able to export to our energy companies, in any case, it will reflect on the price of electricity both on consumers and on small and medium businesses. What are we doing, anyway? Maybe some kind of Kanesian logic. Last year, these enterprises gained profits, that is, they created some kind of buffer. We are currently using it so that we do not raise the price of electricity. We know that our society is sensitive enough in this regard, and I think that the efforts, the common efforts, have therefore produced sufficient results in the changes to the Energy Act that we made last year. It's impossible for a party. It was the unification in specific objectives last year that gave concrete results. Yes, indeed, the Ministry of Energy last year, that is, this year was signed a negotiation with the TPP Maritsa East 1 and TPP Maritsa East 3. So the calculation is about 100 million. lv. Saved by the National Electric Company. Moreover, there is a clause that is open that the Ministry of Energy can renegotiate contracts in full liberalisation of the market. That is, when the market is liberalised, then we will enter into new negotiations so that the two plants can participate in this liberalised market and their compensation in relation to their long-term contracts. We hope then to get out of the yoke of the ego, in which we are all set precisely the accounts of all our consumers in Bulgarian energy. We did a lot of good things last year. They have been beneficial to all companies in energy, I mean the state, whose principal is the Bulgarian Energy Holding. We have seen that only the TPP Maritsa East 2 was unable to make a profit and the National Electricity Company. However, all companies have made positive results compared to the expectations they had at the beginning of the year, with more than 500 million. lv. This was precisely the effort of the entire parliament and the changes to the Energy Act that we made. I think what Mr. Dobrev and I are proposing is a good way to prevent electricity from increasing for consumers and for small and medium-sized businesses. I hope you will support it, because this is lobbying for them, precisely for consumers. Otherwise, during this time, we will strive to liberalise the market fully and to re-establish these contracts with TPP Maritsa East 1 and TPP Maritsa East 3. If anyone has a better solution, let them say it. We will always support a good decision. Thank you and I hope you'll support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva. I would ask the honourable Members to concentrate on the proposal to amend the Energy Act in this part, which the importers have imported, and not to mention the US power plants and who signed them, how they signed them or for the RES, because we are getting off the subject, if you please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u48	Primus inter pares! You probably feel obliged to make comments on the style of the MPs because you voted for this project yourself. The whole work is in a neoliberal quantity, which was invented, it does not really exist, there is no physical meaning, in the age of wild neoliberalism, of the vacanal in the 1990s, it is called It doesn't make any sense, because it doesn't make any sense to claim that you're making expenses that you can't recover on the market. It is challenged, including by theorists in the economy, but this is another topic. Let's say here that since last Monday the two US power plants are not working simply because because of the constant increase in electricity prices and because your reforms have liquidated the Bulgarian industry, there is no consumption in Bulgaria. We're stuck yelling at naked households. And let's not scare the households or the businesses that we're gonna raise their power. Ha, dare you pick him up! You forgot February 2013 very quickly! It is absolutely unfounded to tax a 5% tax, an American tax, I can say, on the two Bulgarian enterprises. The bill does not comply with the Law on Legislative Acts, as a law is being made for the robbery of two specific Bulgarian state-owned enterprises. In addition, if you want despite all this, despite the heavy konncture, despite the lack of consumption in Bulgaria, still to export the electricity, well, remove this fee, which one of your government imposed, from BGN 7,5. export fee. I would like to ask: the one who did the non-competitive Bulgarian exports of electricity and left a niche for Hungary, Romania, Italy, how much did he receive? Because these are expensive!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u49	Before I give the floor for a second reply to your address to me: I am a representative of a parliamentary group that is a reasonable opposition. And since the importers' proposal is reasonable, that is why I voted for it with the corresponding additional motivations that I said at second reading what I will vote on, so I do not accept from the National Assembly's stand that you make direct remarks in the way that you did. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, you're entitled to the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Tasheva, in order to keep the price of electricity, I said that the price of hydrocarbons is lower... I would like to remind you of something that you may be forgetting. At the moment Bulgaria is paying one of the lowest gas prices in Europe. Do you know how this is done? This was done when Minister Dobrev signed the agreement with "Gszprom" and we removed the three intermediaries. That is why the price of gas is currently one of the lowest in Europe and was one of the highest in Bulgaria. To remind you it was about $500 at the time. And this has now enabled a public obligation to be able to reduce several times, in fact several times, and actually the price of the steam is also falling. I would like to remind you that our government has signed good contracts, but we are also obliged to comply with the contracts that previous governments have made good or bad. It's one of the ways we manage to keep the price of electricity going through this buffer, so there's no point in scaring each other, but finding a solution. I think that's a better and more constructive option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. To speak, there is the MP from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the honourable Mr Ramadan Atalay. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the amendment and the Supplement to the Energy Act, because this idea of stabilizing the energy system is not only an idea of GERB, it is not an idea of colleagues.. importers of amendments and additions, but it has been an idea since the executive power, regardless of who it is, since 2008, made certain mistakes and these mistakes had some restrictive measures that had to be taken to introduce stability in the energy system. That's the whole point. When at the time of Oresharski's administration, we proposed the differentiated approach and each who, how much and how much damage he caused in the energy environment, how much to pay, then GERB and the other political forces were against this approach. They expected the government to fall so that we could finally sit down and take this decision and make sure that the energy system was stable. Are there any colleagues on the left, on the right or on the center today who disagree with stability, with the stability of the energy system? I don't see any coworkers like that. Here, however, the issue is the uniformity of the speeches of right-wing politicians and left-wing politicians. And, Mr. President, we can't help but get out of the debate because the accusation on the left hand side that we almost impose 5% of the revenue collection from state enterprises and referred only to state enterprises is not true as well as using the word "reformators" - the reformers, Mr. Dimitrov, are already wondering what reform is. Would they tell me what they reformed in energy, besides ruining the small and medium-sized businesses of right-wing politicians? And I wonder why today on the back of energy we are trying to make certain policies to impress society. Even Mr. Nikolov just came out and said: to keep the price of electricity we do these things. No, Mr. Nikolov, not to keep the price, but to collect those revenues that we need to pay the public debt. Colleagues, in recent years, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has really done some damage and I am surprised today, Mr. Dimitrov, when he praised Mr. Ivanov, that the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission had indeed taken certain measures towards the business when he was chairman did not see the chairman of the previous State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission doing the relevant outrage. Then why didn't you reform this system? He was Chairman of the Energy Committee in this Parliament. We're worried, colleagues, about this. What is worrying is that we are introducing the 5% tax, because the free market is falling the price as motives that I do not accept. What if tomorrow the price of the free market of 70 BGN, of 73 BGN. Is it down to 70 or is it 85? Then can we return the five percent? Either by introducing those 2500 hours of operation of water power plants, when we wrote in the Law that they would work as hydroelectric power plants, or the green energy from photovoltaics would only subtract them from the energy they use for their own needs and that would be net production, and at the moment, by adopting this Law, we have given the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission the opportunity to destroy those small hydropower plants. And this is where it belongs, colleagues, in the fastest way to correct our mistake in the Law. If they have to work 2,500 hours of small hydropower plants, and from then on we have to give them the green certificates to go out and trade. The MPs are not the people, Mr. Dimitrov, who want their estimates, their returns, revenues, expenses. These are commercial companies. There is an Energy and Water Regulatory Commission that will control and regulate them. We are putting aside, in my opinion, opportunities as MPs, demanding from people how and how they earn, and especially a right-wing politician today to come out and say that he has reformed energy?! And what was the energy reform? It's ruining the business. What reform did you make at the National Electric Company? What reform did you make in the electrical system operator? What profit are we talking about, fellow Members, when we have reduced by only 256 million those losses that were from the tariff estimate or from the obligations to society? You know, the National Electric Company has a lot of money that should somehow be returned, or at least see from the National Electric Company program, a strategy on the basis of which during how long it will recover and will recover all those losses that have been accumulated in recent years since the management of each and every and every one of us. Do not be offended now GERB that will jump here on the stand and start blaming ourselves. [[Radio.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we want stable energy, we must take these measures. If we want in any way to have the predictability and development of our energy system, we must take certain decisions. Colleagues, in addition to reducing the losses in our energy system, we must also create an opportunity for investment. It is there that I do not see and there are no reforms, Mr. Dimitrov. The powers that still exist in Bulgaria must be renovated. There must be new capacities, there must be investments in green energy and there must be a strategy that we are constantly talking about. Or, Mr. Chairman, returning to the subject...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u53	Thank you for coming back to the subject after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u54	...in my opinion, the proposal is correct, because otherwise, imagine, in the Electrosystemic Operator there are certain forces that in the last year especially unknown who appointed them, what they appointed them for and started spending those funds that are being collected there. Better to be returned to the stability of energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Before I give the floor for Mr. Dimitrov's procedure, are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov. Let's finish this, Mr. Dimitrov, and I'll give you the floor of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Atalay, I agree with much of your speech, but I would just like to remind you that if it were the same conuncture as last year and the parameters in the price model of the KEWRC were set, then, without adopting the Law we are proposing, it would reduce the obligation of society by three levs. I mean, then we wouldn't need to bring in that law. But I think he's good because that, again, is kind of a buffer. There is also some kind of Kanesian logic here, that is, this money will accumulate in the Energy Security Fund and can always be used to stabilise prices, which will give great predictability to business as well. I think that what you are proposing in relation to water plants and not only why only water plants, let it be allowed when they are already trading on the free market and when they have passed the hours set by the KEWRC, to use these green guarantees so that they can realize them and be able to cover their losses, or actually be able to realise electricity at a better price. I think they're theirs, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov. [[Reply from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov.]] I don't see Mr. Dimitrov's hand raised, and he's entitled to a personal explanation. I don't think that's necessary, Mr. Dimitrov, do I? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Atalay, I can't agree with you that almost this year and a half substantial reforms have been made. Yes, perhaps you are largely entitled to some of the companies, but in general I think that the biggest possible step has been taken in all of reform, in the entire electricity system, namely the difficult path of market liberalisation, because for many previous governments, for many previous regulators, the biggest problem has always been, of course, and from the point of view of the political conjuncture, whether the price of electricity corresponds to the market one. I mean the one that the regulator determines for the next regulatory period. What we are trying to do right now in the last year and a half, which will certainly take a lot of effort in the future, a lot of time, a lot of resources from the next governments, too, is precisely to make a liberalised market where the price of electricity is what it is really is and not what politicians want it to be. So this is the only thing that I do not agree with, because this step forward, this step, the path we are going on, is the brightest reflection of the fact that we are going on the right path of reform. I think this is the most basic part that we need to do, and then there are, of course, other important measures to be implemented. I really agree that there are additional things that can be done about companies. That is why I cannot agree with you that not enough steps have been taken towards reform in the sector of electricity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u59	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Third line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Atalay, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, this bill must be supported. This is an amendment, it must be supported. But I would like to say a few words to my fellow Members: a tax approach is not a reform. Don't pull my tongue! Energy reform and the liberalised market is not something that you started. The liberalization of the energy market has a certain history and it will go with these steps. Be convinced that the measures the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is taking are still correct. They are not accepted by a large part of both producers and transmission undertakings and distribution companies, including businesses. When the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission starts fulfilling its obligations rather than binding measures by the Members of the National Assembly or by this National Assembly, so that we can still stabilise energy when the Commission remains to regulate only that part which is necessary for the end-user, then we can start talking about normal work and the Commission. Then, if it eventually gets to that stabilization of our energy system and the National Electricity Company is working not at loss, but at the expense of collecting the necessary funds for investment in its own enterprises, then we can now safely say that we have done something that was necessary for energy. For now, colleagues, I'm still telling you, this approach is tax-free. Thank Mr. Delyan Dobrev that he is still living in this role and finds a way how and what to offer in these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov. The right of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You can see that the proposed bill is extremely important both for business and for the economy, for our entire country. The passions got too hot. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front, I would like a 30-minute recess so that each parliamentary group can further discuss and take its informed decision given the forthcoming vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u63	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Thirty-minute break. At 10.50 pm we begin with a statement of the MP from BSP left Bulgaria Mr. Dragomir Stoinev. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u64	Dear MPs, the word for speech has the people representative Dragomir Stoynev from BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please extend the parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u66	You've got an increase in time for about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I listened with interest to the speeches of all MPs. Of course, some I disagree with. These are mostly representatives of the Reformation bloc. Just because we got this far doesn't mean there wasn't any major work done before. If this state of energy and efforts to get to this point were supported by all the political forces and we in the Energy Commission stood together, especially to limit high-efficiency cogeneration, if previous efforts by previous governments are wrong, then cancel them. For example, cancel the creation of the balancing market, which significantly reduces NEK's costs. Cancel the reduction by 50% of the mandatory buy-in of the cold reserve, cancel the split of the ESO and NEK, where Bulgaria was threatened to pay 8 thousand. EUR per day, or for example the establishment of the State Energy Exchange. It is true that the current government is now due to organise and purchase the necessary platform. I believe that the actions that have been taken so far are in the right direction. So I can't agree that it's hardly been a year and a half since it all started over, and before that nothing has been done. Because the first action to limit high-efficiency cogeneration was approximately three years ago. Let us not forget that until now there has been only one year, which has been declared zero year for joining RES-powers. This was during the Oresharski government. I'd like to comment on the celebrated National Electric Company. Ladies and gentlemen, if in 2014 the cost of emissions of TPPs and TPPs was not recognised, the deficit would not have been so high. Or if it wasn't for that extra 186 million. BGN, then 2015 the result would be exactly the same. But in the end, these are actions in the right direction, because at the time we had the intention to create a similar fund, which currently exists, with an essential difference that the current President is opening a clamp: I am glad that he will not run for a second term So the actions are in the right direction, which shows a pragmatic character, but at the same time I know that when there is a victory, it has many mothers, and there is only one loss. What you have achieved before you, there is no way you can not admit it in order to build on what is happening right now. Once again, I say together with all the political forces. The big question, ladies and gentlemen, concerning this bill, is the additional fee imposed on the ECO and...................................................................................... To my great amazement, I also stated it in the Energy Commission, we do not have any analysis or impact assessment that is necessary and how this proposal will affect the financial situation of the ESO and of the Bulgartransgaz. I believe that the argument we are in haste so that the price of households is not increased is not correct, because we all know, or at least those who are in the Energy Commission, when the regulatory period begins. This change could have been introduced about two months ago, to be debated with the relevant estimates and to make the right decision. The big question is how and how long we will support this fund. Ladies and gentlemen, when this fund was created, it was explained that it would solve all accumulated energy problems. Turns out it wasn't. Do not let it happen that in subsequent periods, God forbid it happens, we will also burden the water companies with an additional fee to collect money in this fund. Or why don't we load up the mobile operators so there's even more money to make this fund work in peace?! That is why we have called, but we have not been given an opinion either by the Ministry of Energy or the Committee on Energy and Water Regulatory. The big question in this Bill is why do we only tax state-owned enterprises? Why are electricity distribution and gas distribution operators not subject to taxation? Their prices are also regulated. We believe that it is quite normal for them to be empathetic, as they also operate in the field of energy. As we impose an additional tax on state-owned companies, we also impose a tax on private companies. I would like to ask the Reformation bloc, which support the government...................... the right government, which increases taxes........ I will not return to increase the debts.......................... the government, which imposes new taxes................................. Obviously, when public undertakings are subject to public service obligations, they can, and when private undertakings are subject to public service obligations, they cannot. I listened carefully and praised the Committee on Energy and Water Regulatory. Only the ESO and the Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz) work at regulated prices, which are determined by the regulator on the basis of justified costs and the need for investment. We remember the hard winter the year before last. At the time, the ECO complained of lack of funds. Here, now they have the means to make the capital expenditure so we don't have another surprise from a heavy winter and from a power supply cut, but right now we are taking these accumulated funds of theirs and we're barely classifying them as surplus revenues. Here is the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission because it has set too high prices for transport and access and storage that all consumers pay. In other words, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission has not done its job. We have to admit that if we determine that this extra income is unnecessary and we have to take it away from them. But the big question in this bill is what comes from it. Until now, no Member of the National Assembly may have paid attention. Ladies and gentlemen, if we accept what is proposed with this Bill, it will appear that the consumer pays twice for the same thing. I repeat, we will make the Bulgarian consumer pay twice for the same thing. What do I mean? Despite the payment of a public debt fee, which goes to the NEC deficit cover fund, a transfer price is also paid. From this proposal it appears that part of the transmission price will be intended for the fund, i.e. again to cover deficits. I believe that this is unacceptable and we need to think about it. The other issue arising from this Bill is breaching the independence of the operators. And this is a European requirement from the Third Energy Package. Since the State, with only one change in the Law, can take part of the profits of these companies, these companies are not independent at all. How we will guarantee their future independence, I personally do not understand. The fourth thing that arises from this Bill is that both state-owned enterprises use European grants for infrastructure projects, in which there is nothing wrong. We support him. However, the European Commission provides these funds, as businesses do not have the necessary funds and cannot make them themselves to build these infrastructure projects. Now we say to them: "You have a surplus profit" because the reasons say that there will be no significant negative impact............................................................................. you have a negative impact, ladies and gentlemen. because these enterprises can build projects with their own funds. Let it not turn out that the European Commission should at some point ask for these funds and say: "Instead of using them for infrastructure projects, you de facto collect them with a single bill, which, in our opinion, I repeat, contradicts the Third Energy Package. Therefore, when we say 'da' and we all support it, although we from BSP left Bulgaria will abstain at first reading, the bill will be supported by us at second reading if the majority agrees not only on state enterprises and, as under the Constitution, there will be a level playing field between private and state property, this fee will also be imposed on electricity distribution and gas distribution companies. Then this bill will be supported by us as well. But we, like you, are risking it. We are risking because there may be a criminal procedure by the European Commission because of a breach of the requirements of the Third Energy Package and also a withdrawal of grants, and these companies have to return funds already received. I say again: we must be extremely careful and we must not look with pink glasses on what has been done so far, it is in the right direction, but it is extremely insufficient. Praises that we have almost solved all problems in a year and a halfq clearly show with this bill that it is not because if everything was decided, explain to me then, ladies and gentlemen, why this additional fee is required? Or perhaps it is wanted to worsen the financial situation of these companies, so that the right hand jumps and says: the state is a bad owner, these companies must be privatized, which is a dream of some people from the European Commission, and I am not hiding it, which I have strongly opposed and will continue to oppose. Therefore, we must be extremely careful. That is why I say, despite the risks there are, we will abstain at first reading. If our proposals are accepted to have a level playing field between private and state enterprises, only then and only then will this Bill be supported by the Bulgarian Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. First line, please, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Stoinev! Since the leitmotive in your speech was levelling the state with private energy, i.e. taxing public and private companies to have a level playing field, I would like to remind you that in 2004 a privatisation contract was concluded with these three electricity distribution companies. There's a whole part of the salesman's responsibilities there. We also have an Investment Promotion Act, we have an agreement with the State concerned to promote these investments. You know there's already an arbitrage case, and not one, it seems a little more. I do not know whether you will take the responsibility of the Bulgarian state to be convicted and to pay these companies precisely for violation of the laws of which I speak and these treaties? Personally, I wouldn't take that responsibility. Otherwise, I would love to support any proposal you make. Sounds pretty good, but I think it's a big risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u70	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Second line, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u71	Thank you. I couldn't figure out how the end-user paid twice for the price of electricity, for these costs? He's paying 10 BGN. Right now, and now he's gonna pay 10 BGN again. So far, the costs that the electricity system operator makes, some of them, will go to the Electricity System Security Fund, right?! Here is my question, Minister: Are you against the Fund because you and I had a very serious struggle to create this Fund? Our mistake was that your political leader had to be 20% in total, on top of it, and then they dropped out in court. That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u72	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Stoinev, one thing I cannot agree with you. You said that the companies "Bulgartransgaz" and ESO have no way with their own revenue to implement their investment programme and that the European Commission is actually making money available to build the necessary infrastructure for the transport of electricity or gas, because the companies themselves cannot. It is nice to clarify and know the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria that in fact the grants you mentioned are not just because the ESO or the Bulgartransgazs (Bulgartransgaz) cannot implement their investment programme and improve their infrastructure. Much of the money goes because the European Commission and the European Union have taken an approach to have better connectivity between both the electricity system and the gas system, to have better connectivity, different diversification of sources and supplies, and security of these supplies. So the European Commission also grants money from a purely point of view to the strategic interest of the entire European Union and not because the ECO or the Bulgartransgaz (Bulgartransgaz) cannot carry out or make new investments. These are companies that generate millions of revenue per year and you know it very well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Hole, Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nikolov, 2004 You must be very well aware of who exactly makes the big promises to the electricity distribution companies. The same person is currently in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and is supported by you. Based on his testimony and his promises, the privatisation contracts were concluded and this same person refuses to help Bulgaria at the moment in the arbitration case. Secondly, dear Mr. Ramadan Atalay, we first pay a public debt, don't we? This money goes to the NEK deficit fund. A price is also paid. However, with this bill it is now so that the price of the transfer is a part of it, I do not say all of it will go back to this Fund. I mean, in this fund, we're going two ways. [[Reply.]] That's right! Because that money, the moment we bet it 5%, will go exactly to this fund. Where do we get them? From the transmission of electricity or gas. That's what we do twice! To Mr. Nenkov, of course, with all due respect, yes, I agree that this is a European initiative and it is supported. I assure you, the European Commission would gladly not spend money on companies that are over-profited. We go and tell the European Commission that we have no money, and for this reason they are really making necessary steps, which, again, are extremely insufficient if we really want to develop both our gas and electrical infrastructure. At the moment, with this Bill, we are telling the European Commission: those companies that you give them grants, they have almost over-profits at the moment. It will not have a negative effect on these companies if we charge them a total of 31 million. lv. And that's why you keep giving money, and we'll use that money in the fund that covers the NEK deficit. That's why I'm saying I hope it doesn't happen. We are not the kind of people who will go and cry to the European Commission, as was the case with other governments, to meet with commissioners and to speak against our country, but this danger exists and I am obliged to say it. If it doesn't happen, it's so much better for the country. Again, how long are there going to be extra taxes and fees, so until the bills come out? What if tomorrow's free market price rises, will we return that 30 million to ESO and NEK, as Mr. Atalay said? We're not giving them back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u76	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, with the exception of the political part and the political statements of those who have spoken before, with much of the objective arguments that have been given for.............................................................................. But I want to return the subject really to the importance of the creation of the Electricity Security Fund, as well as the additional inclusion of the Bulgartransgaz and ESO in raising funds in this fund. What is the basis for the bill thus tabled? Without being a collaborator, I dare say that two are the main reasons, namely to raise more funds in this Fund and to seek precisely this buffer from the "Bulgartransgaz" and the electricity system operator. Surely the reason is objective. Even when we created the fund, it was not for the purpose, because some of the negotiators said that we almost did not want to solve the problems in the energy sector, there was no such thing, the fund was created for two reasons and I still think that it should continue to exist and we should try as hard as possible to bring it together. The first reason is that at the moment we are passing.. I just said it in a line that we are going into a new development of the electricity market, and a liberalized market where the price of electricity will be determined by the market principle of supply and demand. Then the regulator will not be able to influence even politically in the years, you know, the regulation of the price of electricity. The fund was created precisely with the idea to rob and be a buffer, to cover possible risks from price variation. At the moment, even today, we do not have a hundred percent clarity as to what will happen in the stages of full liberalisation. Without saying who started it, who didn't start the liberalisation, there were steps taken in this direction, there was created such a Fund. It is also a requirement of international experts who said that there must be such a fund in order to be able to cover the risks in the possible jump or decline in the price of electricity. In this case, we are facing this hypothesis in which the price of electricity, as Mr. Nikolov, I think, has just explained very precisely what objective circumstances, not subjective, in objective circumstances on the international markets, have fallen too much, which, of course, carries a risk for companies that produce electricity. In fact, the creation of this Fund was not intended to solve energy problems, because it cannot, but it is certainly the buffer that must provide sufficient liquidity for companies to work. I think his creation was a very good step. Even then, there was no need for the international electricity price to be included, and then the electricity system operator (ESO) did not really have such a need. The international electricity price was different and did not predispose these two companies to participate. Don't think that we would rather not speak on behalf of the importers, we have a great desire to take this money now for example to the Transgaz and ESO. Absolutely! Either way, at the moment they are implementing their investment programs at 100%. I am talking at this stage, so I do not see any problem. These revenues, these residuals in these companies are ultimately a buffer, and I see nothing wrong with using this buffer so that we can really give the regulator the opportunity not to raise the price of electricity. Here comes the second important question. The first, in my view, was precisely to have liquidity in the system and to cover the risks of market liberalisation and the risks that we are now facing, namely reducing the price of electricity and losing companies when selling electricity on a free market. The second essential argument is precisely because under these objective circumstances we must either leave things as they are at the moment and the regulator of 1 July to issue prices that will surely be higher, which will be covered by the charge. How much? The Governor will tell. Or to allow it through these legislative changes not to raise the price of electricity and the price of electricity as a value should not be our objective. We do not have such an objective.. the price simply does not hold because someone is afraid of 2013 and some such apocalyptic scenarios, and there is a much more important motive not to do so. Currently, the country's economy is starting to rise at a slow pace, so to speak. You can see that in recent months there is a rise in unemployment; there is an increase in the economy; EUROSTAT, the European Commission, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development give better indicators to the state for 2016. If we now assume that we have the opportunity not to do so, as a legislative body, to allow the regulator not to raise the price of electricity and the charge, then really this money will remain in business, which is a great desire of business, and in people's consumption, as less money will go to pay their electricity bills per month. It may sound populist a little bit or not, but in the end, it's the truth. We are faced with the choice of whether to allow the regulator to keep the price of electricity, to have more money in business and consumption, so that the economy can really go, to continue to develop in this ascending plan, or to make a brake and to say: no, we cannot, we have no will and we will leave things as they are, the regulator to make its price decision and thus to take more funds from business and from citizens. So when we vote, we have to take this into account and make our choice. I believe that companies, especially under the Bill, are sufficiently liquid, implement their investment programme, and at this stage we should not have any concern that they will not be able to fulfil their commitments to society. I therefore ask you to support the submitted Bill with the clear idea that it will not, of course, resolve all risks from now on, but it will certainly be a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mr. Boychev, you have 1.20 minutes. with extended time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, there is no way, when discussing the Energy Act, not to mention the overall state of the sector. Of course, in the spirit of correctness, I would like to remind you that all these decisions, which have been cited as a reform of the energy sector, are somewhat pretentiously, and bearing responsibility for the governance of the sector, and now, as opposition, have received support from the Bulgarian Socialist Party. At the same time, however, there is no way to close our eyes to a number of questions that we have raised. I hold today, in the context of this debate, before the adoption of the bill, to clarify one more question. In the Commission, at least it has not become clear to me, it will be nearly a year since the adoption of the amendments to the Energy Act and the introduction of this Energy Security Fund, with which we have placed 5% of the electricity producers' revenues. My question is: has this Fund been notified by the European Commission? Is there a risk of falling into the situation of par excelans State aid? I would like to hear from both the Chairman of the Energy Commission and the representative of the Ministry of Energy on the state of this procedure, as the risks to the country are enormous. This Fund has been working for almost a year. If it turns out that we have violated European regulations and rules, and everyone here in this House repeatedly swears that we are following these Community procedures, you know that we will be in an extremely difficult situation. I also take this opportunity to recall the big debate we had last year when you extended the entry of the new regulatory period. Then you promised the business this regulation, which had to ease the large consumers of electricity in relation to the uniformity of the fee. I would like to remind the House and those who are listening to us that this Regulation continues to be without a notification from the European Commission And there we are at the moment with an unfulfilled commitment. My request to the importers and to the Ministry of Energy is to inform Parliament before the adoption of these amendments to the Law, how far this procedure is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u80	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Replies to Mr. Boychev's statement? I can't see. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev. I hope this is the last statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am glad that today, in this Chamber, we have had a constructive debate. We went back to professional tone in energy and despite the partial deviations in order to make policies on the left and right, we stuck to good tone. I motivated our proposal at the beginning of today, at the start of the point. I would like to make a few comments on the topics that have affected my fellow Members. It has been said that stabilizing energy is some kind of mantra that is constantly repeating itself. In fact, this is not a mantra, these are the facts, and they are proved by both the financial performance of companies and the most understandable fact to people. At the beginning of the term of office of the second cabinet, Borisov, in the accounts of the companies in the energy sector, all companies had about 300 million. lv. There's 1.3 billion at the moment. lv. For this year and a half, cash availability in energy companies has increased by 1 billion. lv. These are facts, these numbers prove that what we are talking about is not a mantra, and this is something that has already happened and it has happened not thanks to GERB or to me, or to some of my colleagues, or the Reformation bloc, which supports the government, but has happened because of the efforts of all of us.... of the Energy Commission and Parliament, because if it had not been for the legislative changes that we made twice last year, none of this would have happened. I also do not want to seize all the positives for the 43rd National Assembly, there were good things that started and happened during both the 42nd National Assembly and the 41st National Assembly. This is the right direction in which we must go and not stray. Mr. Ermenkov mentioned that we have plucked out the sack of flour, which I do not agree with this statement because we would have pulverized the sack of flours if these accounts of companies in the energy sector were empty, but we have 1 billion in them. 300 million, i.e. the bag of flour is full and we are pinching it to give to the Electricity Security Fund, with a single objective of something else, we are depriving ourselves of some of the profits of the state companies, and I will tell you what part of the availability of these accounts or a little over 2%, right?! At 1.3 billion. lv. in the accounts of the energy companies, 30 million for the one-year period are slightly over 2%, i.e. we pinch from the flour sack to ease the business in Bulgaria. Why are we making business easier? They are the beneficiaries of this 30 million. Mr. Stoynev, we do not charge them twice because the Fund does not cover transportation fees, distribution and so on. The transfer fees are paid by the users. The Fund pays the differences between the market price of electricity and the preferential prices that are promised over time. So we pinch the profits of state energy and give them to businesses through the lower possible fee obligation to society, which will determine the regulator and it will say exactly how much it should be. Our calculation shows that at 33 teravat/hours of consumption, 30 million. lv. mean a penny on this price of public debt. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the ones who provide jobs, pay taxes, pay insurance, and if we have a way to deprive ourselves of part of the profits of state-owned companies, again, I repeat a very small part of the profits and stocks in the accounts of state-owned companies, in favour of these small and medium-sized enterprises, the effect of this policy will be multiplied because, if we give up 30 million profits of state-owned companies, this will result in 300 million profits in the private sector, will lead to higher taxes, will lead to more jobs, to a higher amount and total amount of the contributions paid. Mr. Ermenkov, you made a mistake, and just for the record, to correct it.................. the..... is not Sunny Beach............................................................... It's close, but it's Golden Sands. It's still about the correctness of the debate. With regard to the impact assessment Mr. Stoynev asked for, this is public information and you can check it in the registers, and I am sure that some of these data you know. For 2013, Bulgartransgaz is profiting 85 million; for 2014. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. $93 million. The 2015 electricity system operator, as this is the year in which it prepared its own report for the whole year, is profitable 63 million. So much for the impact assessment. We take a total of 5% from the two companies, the total revenue will be 30 million from one company 17 million and from the other company 13 million. With regard to the directive, it would be a violation of the directive if we were to take from the funds of the companies for the repair programme and the development of the network in this case is not the case. It would be so if these companies were zero, they don't generate any profit, and we take their money, which means they can't implement their investment and repair program in their entirety. In this case, they have implemented their investment and repair program in their entirety, they have profits of 60-80-90 million A violation of the Directive could be if, since the issue has been raised repeatedly here: why not include distribution companies, but only transmission operators? The financial results of distribution companies also show the calculation of a 5% contribution that if distribution companies are included, it will be at the expense of their investments and then we will not be able to explain that the investment and repair programmes are carried out in their entirety, but nevertheless we have bet them 5%. We, by charging them a 5% fee, will violate their repair and investment programs. We have an opinion from several of these ERPs. For example, CEZ says 5% would mean a zero repair programme and 59% less investment in the network for their company. Mr. Boychev asked many correct questions. I propose these questions, because they are not to the legislative authority, but to the executive, to take the first opportunity in the Committee on Blitz Energy Control to ask the questions to Minister Petkova, even the procedure can be used on Wednesday, in the plenary of blitz control, as the questions are really important. I'll repeat them once more: has the Fund been notified? The issue is to the executive because the National Assembly does not notify such type of documents. As far as I know such a notification is not necessary, there is some communication with the European Commission, but it is good that we all hear this during the Commission or in plenary. The same applies to the regulation: Why is the notification of the regulation delayed? It started more than 9 months ago, and what I know about the subject is that before the regulation is notified, aid for green plants should be notified. The bill has been in progress since 2007. In 2008, to see that there was first no illegal State aid and only then to notify the support to small and medium-sized enterprises. In conclusion, I would like to repeat once again and, using, I see that Mr. Ermenkov wants to take the floor for a line, I hope. Using his example of plucking the sack of flour to say that it is actually pinching out of the bag and given to small and medium-sized enterprises in Bulgaria, which will generate much bigger profits, which we are currently deprived of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] I'll give you the floor for a personal explanation, since you don't have the time to reply, but in the correct tone, I'll give it to you. First of all, are there any lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov. You've been mentioned twice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman! I'm taking a personal explanation procedure because apparently my colleague didn't understand what I said. I said we're pumping state energy like a sack of flour, and at the same time, for private energy, we're doing absolutely nothing. And here these explanations that I have heard just confirm my thesis that, see, if we take 5% of the ERPs, there will be no opportunities to make an investment programme, but if we take 5% of the ESO, they will be able to make an investment programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u84	In essence, how are you affected?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u85	I am very interested in why, when we make such proposals, do not take to suggest instead of playing with 5%, which can now be many, tomorrow may be few, offer a point for addition...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u86	Where's the personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u87	No dialogue with the House! Mr. Ivanov, please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u88	Why, since you have not understood it or misunderstood it in the wrong way, do not take to offer example funds to fill this Fund out of the State dividend by decision of the principal? And then the principal will now decide how much money to give, whether to give it, whether there is a need or not, and not we will become a doormat of the government and accept 5% or 7% and only part of the businesses. And that's really ripping off state property, not something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Procedure in the manner of conduct. I will accept your remark in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u90	Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out to you that this was not a personal explanation, but an argument on the ground. These arguments have essentially proved my point. BSP is not against taking it from state energy, but they say: "Do it secretly through the dividends of state companies and give it to the Fund. We don't want to do this in secret. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, are there any other people who would like to speak? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u92	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support this Draft at first reading, above all because it is a continuation of a sustainable line to stabilise our state energy and to meet one of our main objectives, namely to keep electricity prices at consumer-friendly targets. At the same time, it is also in the spirit of some amendments that we proposed between first and second readings of the previous examination of this Law when we proposed exactly what our fellow Members in the Left mentioned, namely in the Law to record that 50% of the profits of state companies instead of dividend entered directly into the Energy Stabilisation Fund. Then this proposal did not meet support. At present, colleagues from GERB are doing something similar as an extreme effect. In this spirit, we will support them and, of course, we reserve the right between first and second readings to consider whether the ERPs are, in principle, to remain outside the sphere of enterprises that must give their contribution to the stability of the energy system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u93	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Act, No 654-01-66, submitted by Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov on 17 May 2016. Vote 128 MPs: 104 against 13, abstention 11. The bill was passed in the first vote. We continue with the next item on the agenda: SECOND READING THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE RISK ASSESSMENT OF FOOD RISK Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 February 2016. Adopted in first vote on 9 March 2016. Yesterday we reached art. 7, which we accepted. We now proceed with art. 8. But before that procedure, please come in, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, the bill that Valentin Nikolov and I have tabled is only from a few paragraphs. We have heard what suggestions may appear between first and second readings. They will be within a few words or a sentence. In this sense, I propose a reduction in the period between first and second readings of three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u95	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Delyan Dobrev. Vote 84 MPs: 74 against 5, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The work of the National Assembly yesterday came to art. 8 The Commission proposes to create a new art. 8. Art. 8. (1) The Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre shall evaluate by an assessment report pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 for: 1. plant protection products for their authorisation for placing on the market and use, renewal, amendment and withdrawal of authorisation for placing on the market and use, extending the scope of authorisation for placing on the market and use of a plant protection product for minimal use and for mutual recognition of product authorisations; 2. identity of plant protection products when authorising them for parallel trade; 3. plant protection products that contain substances for substitution. (2) The Centre for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain shall also carry out other assessments pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 and the ordinance under art. 45, para. 1 of the Plant Protection Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u97	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new article. 8 together with its respective content on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 72 against 3, abstention 3. Article 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u98	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8 which becomes Art. 9. Art. 9. (1) Evaluations under art. 8 cover: 1. identity, equivalence, physical, chemical and technical properties and analytical methods of active substances and plant protection products; 2. toxicological characteristics of active substances and plant protection products; 3. residues of plant protection products; 4. existence and behaviour in the environment of active substances and plant protection products; 5. ecotoxicological characteristics of active substances and plant protection products; 6. biological characteristics of plant protection products. (2) For the performance of the assessments under para. 1 shall also apply the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 45, para. 1 of the Plant Protection Act. (3) The persons who carry out assessments under para. 1 shall sign a declaration of confidentiality on a template approved by the Director of CORCHV, with which they undertake not to disclose the information submitted to them and not to use it for their benefit or for the benefit of third parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u99	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for art. 8, edited by the Commission and becomes art. Nine in her report. Vote art. 9 on the Commission report. Vote 67 MPs: 66, against no, abstention 1. Article 9 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u100	Under art. 9 supposed by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 9 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new article. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u101	We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject art. Nine by importer. Vote 71 MPs: for 67, against none, abstention 4. Article 9 by importer is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u102	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. (1) The assessment reports shall be submitted to BABBH within the following time limits: 1. when authorising and amending the authorisation for the placing on the market and use of a plant protection product.. no later than 45 days before the expiry of the period for the completion of the procedure concerned; 2. in the case of renewal of a marketing authorisation and use of a plant protection product not later than 45 days before the expiry of the period for completion of the procedure; 3. in the case of an extension of the authorisation for placing on the market and use of a plant protection product for minimum use 4. in the case of authorisation for the placing on the market and use of a plant protection product for parallel trade, not later than 10 days before the end of the procedure; 5. in the case of mutual recognition of authorisations for placing on the market and use of plant protection products, not later than 45 days before the end of the procedure; 6. except for cases of t. 15 days before the expiry of the time limit for the completion of the relevant procedure. (2) A fee shall be paid for carrying out the assessment by the assessment report according to the tariff under art. 6, para. 4. (3) The time limits under para. 1 begin to flow from receipt of the payment fee document and the copy of the necessary documents under art. 46, para. 4 of the Plant Protection Act. (4) Where the fee is not paid within the time limit, the procedure shall be terminated and the CORHW shall inform BABBH in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u103	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 10 by importer, generally supported by the Commission and edited by the same. Vote art. 10 on the Commission report. Vote 68 MPs: 66, none, abstention 2. Article 10 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u104	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) Where additional information is required to carry out the evaluation with the evaluation report, the CORHR shall inform the person in writing and shall set a time limit for its submission which shall not be longer than 6 months. (2) Until the presentation of the information under para. 1 the period for carrying out the assessment shall cease to run. (3) For the circumstances under para. 1 and 2 and when the information is not submitted within the period under para. 1, CORHW informs BABBH in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u105	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 11, supported by the Commission and edited by it. Vote art. 11 on the Commission report. Vote 68 MPs: 65, none, abstention 3. Article 11 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u106	The Commission proposes to create a new art. 12: Art. 12. If necessary, CORHW may assign assessments with evaluation reports under art. 7 and 8 and external experts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u107	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new art. 12 with its respective content in accordance with the Commission report. Please vote art. 12 of the Commission's report. Vote 66 MPs: 64, no objection, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal to create a new art. 12 together with its corresponding content on the report of the same has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u108	The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 12 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 7, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u109	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to reject art. 12 by importer. Please vote on the Commission proposal. Vote 66 MPs: 64, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u110	The Commission proposes to create a new Section III. "Department III.................................................................................................. Art. 13 The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. The institutions and bodies referred to in art. 3, para. 1, t. 4 draw up, in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 and Annex I, Section III, Chapter IV of Regulation (EC) No 854/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 laying down specific rules for the organisation of official controls on products of animal origin intended for human consumption, annual training programmes for: 1. official control officers; these staff shall also be trained on the administration of official control activities in accordance with the level of their competence; 2. the persons to whom tasks related to official control are delegated in accordance with the specifics of the activities they carry out; 3. the employees of the institutions who conduct the state food chain policy in accordance with the specifics of the activities they carry out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u111	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new Section III...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 13, supported in principle by the Commission and edited by the same, according to its report. We are voting for the creation of a new Section III "Training" and art. 13 on the Commission report. Vote 71 MPs: for 68, against none, abstention 3. The creation of Section III........................................................................................... 13 on the Commission report have been adopted. It's 11:00 p.m. We're interrupting for a break. At 12:30, we move on. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u112	We're continuing the hearing. Please invite the Quaestors to the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman! Under art. 14 A proposal from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova, the National Representative Dobrin Danev and the National Representative Radoslav Stoychev. The Commission does not support the proposal. The offer they made is: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14, para. 2 to be The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14. (1) Within one month of the preparation of the programmes under art. 13 Institutions and bodies referred to in art. 3, para. 1, t. Four are sending them to CORHW. (2) The Centre for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain within one month of receipt of the programmes under para. 1 may make proposals and recommendations for amending or supplementing training programmes. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u114	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedure before the vote is made name-checking, as there is obviously no necessary quorum in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u116	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. I'm asking for the list. Aidoan Mutalib Ali is missing Ayhan Ahmed Etem is absent. Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Hristov Metodiev- absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov- absent Altimir Emilov Adamov- absent Ana Georgieva Barakova- here Angel Petrov Naydenov- absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev- absent Antony Antonyev Trenchev- absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov- here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov- absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov- absent Boris Yankov Yachev- absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov- here Borislav Mihailov Borisov- absent Borislav Rajchov Milanov- here Borislav Sabinov Iglev- absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan-here. Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov- absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- absent Vasil Milanov Antonov- absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova- here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov- absent Willy Mladenov Lilkov- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- absent Volen Nikolov Siderov- absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Simeonova Georgieva- here Georg Danielov Georgiev- here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev- here Georgi Ivanov Andonov- absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov- absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev- here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- absent Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov- here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov- absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- absent Daniela Yordanova Panayotova- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov- here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova- here Diana Ivanova Yordanova- absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov- absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev- absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- absent Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov- absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev- absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov- absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev- absent Dobrin Nenov Danev- absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov- here Doncho Spasov Baxanov- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa- absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Emil Dimitrov Reinov- here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov- absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Erdingh Ismail Hajrula-here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov- here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov- absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Penkov Ivanov- absent Ivan Slavov Ivanov- absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Stoev Cholakov- here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov- absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- here Ilian Sashov Todorov- absent Iliya Yankov Iliev- absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova- absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov- absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova- missing Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Cyril Dobrev Dobrev- here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev- absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev- here Kircho Georgiev Karagyozov- here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Korman Yakubov Ismailov- absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov- here Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov- absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan is absent. Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva- missing Mariana Georgieva Todorova- missing Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Method Borisov Andreev- here Mehmet Umer Ataman here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova- absent Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Mithat Sabri Metin here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov- absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov- absent Musa Cemal Palev- absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye- here. Mustafa Fahri Ahmed is absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev- here Nevin Halil Hassan- absent. Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Neno Hristov Vlaikov- here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov- here Petar Georgiev Kadiev- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Petar Ivanov Petrov- here Petar Kostadinov Petrov- here Petar Pandushev Chobanov- absent Peter Hristov Bekov- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova- here Radan Milenov Kanev- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Petrov Petrov- here Rumen Vassilev Gechev- absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Dinev Zhelev here Rumen Ivanov - absent Rumen Marinov Yonchev- absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev- here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin- here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova- here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova- here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev- absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov- absent Svilen Filipov Ivanov- here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova- here Slavi Penchev Binev- absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov- here Snezana Georgieva Dukova- here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov- absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov- here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov- here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov- here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev- here Stefan Lambov Danailov- here Stefan Stynov Zhelev- here Stephanie Mihneva Mihaylova- absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev- absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova- here Tasko Mihailov Ermenkov- here Teodora Radkova Georgieva- here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev- absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova- absent Philip Stefanov Popov here Hamid Barry Hamid-- absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov- here Hristian Radev Mitev- absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev-here Hristo Georgiev Todorov- absent Hristo Grudev Grudev here. Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva- absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov- absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov- here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska- absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev- here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev- here Chetin Hussein Kazak- here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush is absent Julian Krastev Angelov- here Yavor Bozhilov Notev- absent Yavor Iliev Haytov- here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov- here Janko Alexandrov Jankov is missing. Additionally recorded: Anton Dolapchiev, Boris Yachev, Atanas Stoyanov, Vladislav Nikolov, Diana Yordanova, Anton Trenchev, Dimitar Delchev, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, Emil Dimitrov, Dimitar Shishkov, Danail Kirilov, Jordan Andonov, Dimitar Boychev, Magdalena Tasheva, Borislav Velikov, Delyan Dobrev, Grozdan Karadzhov, Dobrin Danev, Dragomir Stoynev, Rumen Gechev and Zhelyo Boychev. We have a quorum, we can proceed. Here you go, Mr. Hristov. Let's continue with the report. Before that, we have a vote. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 117 MPs: 40 against 43 abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 14, supported by the Commission and edited by the same. Vote art. 14 on the Commission report. Vote 98 MPs: 81 against 6, abstention 11. Article 14 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u117	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: Art. 15. (1) The educators under art. 16, p. 1 send information to CORHW for each training carried out within one month after it is carried out. (2) Within three months of the relevant training carried out, the institutions and bodies referred to in art. 3, para. 1, t. 4 perform a verification of its results according to an instruction issued by the relevant authority and send information to the CHR.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u118	Are there any statements on this text? I won't. Please vote on the text on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 83, none, abstention 10. He's in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u119	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. The Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre shall maintain a database of: 1. Higher schools, institutes and other organizations and persons entitled to train employees and persons under art. 13; 2. the trainings carried out; 3. the trainings carried out, organised by the European Union structures, in international organisations and in third countries; 4. trainings for the relevant calendar year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u120	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Just before we vote, I see that the name of the Centre is written in full here and in the previous article. 15 with abbreviation is short. No problem in that regard? [[Definitions with the Commission's expert.]] Okay. Please vote art. 16. 88 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 10. Article 16 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u121	The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 17 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 15, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u122	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We vote for dropping out of art. 17 by importer. Vote 89 MPs: 82, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u123	"Department II" "Management Authorities". The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following wording of the name, namely: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18, which becomes Art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u124	Statements? I won't. Please vote on Section II 18, as proposed. Vote 91 MPs: 79, no objection, abstention 12. The text of the importer for art. 18, which becomes Art. Seventeen has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u125	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19 which becomes Art. 18: Art. 18. (1) The Director of CORHW shall be appointed by the Prime Minister on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture and Food. (2) A habilitated person with professional experience shall be appointed as director of the CORHW for at least 10 years in the field of food safety. (3) The Director shall: 1. represents CORHW; 2. is an authorising officer with a budget and with accounts for funds from the European Union; 3. exercise the functions of appointing authority in respect of civil servants and of employer in respect of employees working in employment relations in the administration of CORHW; 4. performs other functions related to the activities of CORHW. (4) In carrying out its powers, the Director of CORHW shall be assisted by the Deputy Director. (5) The Deputy Director of CORHW shall be appointed by the Minister of Agriculture and Food on a proposal from the Director of CORHW. A person with professional experience of not less than 8 years in the field of food safety shall be appointed as Deputy Director. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 19: Art. 19. (1) The activities of CORHW shall be carried out by an administration in which persons working in a professional and employment relationship. For employees of the employment relationship shall apply art. 107a of the Labor Code. (2) The Law on Administration shall apply to the administration of CORHW, to the extent that nothing else is provided for in this Law. (3) The structure, composition and number of CORHW as well as the functions of its units shall be determined by the rules of procedure adopted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u126	Are there any statements under art. Art. 18 and art. 19. I won't. Please vote on the two texts. Vote 84 MPs: 75, none, abstention 9. The texts are being adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u127	Under art. 20 has a proposal from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: Art. 20. (1) The Board of Directors of CORHW shall consist of 5 members, the Director of CORHW, a member of law, and two Deputy Ministers of Agriculture and Food and Health, appointed by the Minister of Agriculture and Food, respectively, by the Minister of Health. (2) The members of the Management Board shall be appointed and released by decision of the Council of Ministers. In the event of dismissal of a member of the Management Board, the relevant Minister under para. 1 proposes to appoint another representative until the expiry of the mandate. (3) The Management Board shall have a term of three years. (4) The Management Board shall: 1. adopt an annual programme for the work of CORHR and a report on its implementation, as well as a report on the implementation of the budget; 2. take decisions to ensure the implementation of the activities of CORHW and the ways to implement them; 3. Annual presentation of a report on the implementation of the annual programme and the budget of CORHW of the Minister of Agriculture and Food. (5) The Governing Council shall meet at least twice a year. Meetings shall be regular if three of the members are present. Decisions shall be taken by a simple majority of the members present.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u128	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 20 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 76, none, abstention 9. The test has been passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u129	Proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev is created art. 20a: Art. 20a. (1) A Scientific Advisory Council shall be established in the structure of the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre. (2) The Scientific Advisory Council shall consist of 15 established highly qualified scientific specialists, including a chairman appointed by order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food for a period of 4 years. (3) The Scientific Advisory Council shall: 1. shall be responsible for the general coordination and the necessary consistency for the procedure for drawing up scientific opinions; 2. develop the methodologies for risk assessments on the food chain; 3. give an opinion and, where necessary, perform risk assessments which are of a very industrial nature. (4) For cases requiring highly specialised competence, the Director of the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre shall, on a proposal from the Scientific Advisory Council, attract external experts. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u130	Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We're on the Head, connected to the controls. The management bodies of the Centre are proposed to be the Executive Director and Management Board. It was assumed that he would meet at most twice a year, or at least, it didn't matter. I'm guessing he'll get back together twice a year. Since this very small structure of twenty-several people in our view does not have the capacity to carry out its duties in terms of preventing risk, we propose that the structure of management should include a Scientific Advisory Council, which includes 15 prominent scientists from different fields and fields of action of science, so that they can be able to help in determining policy in this area and prevent risk, do analysis and also manage it. The Commission did not accept this opinion, perhaps with the fear that these 15 people, who will be appointed by the Minister's order, could almost confuse the food safety policy. I assure you, without them, this structure has been completely emptied of content. Such a small structure with such a large Law and with so many commitments, I think it will not be able to do the work it is intended for. Since yesterday in one of the lines they said to me: "Only you understand what you're saying about this Risk Center, I will say that each of you is a consumer, each of you wants control of the food chain so that you can consume safe foods. I'll give you a few examples. What does this Risk Center have to do? First, a few months ago, BAN scientists found that the E's that are consumed in food processing are harmful. They could not prove it with sufficient research, since this was on a project, it was limited, but the Ministry of Agriculture and Food sent to the ESA its analyses and comments to determine whether these Es are really harmful and therefore what measures should be taken to prevent their further use if they are harmful to those who consume them and put them into raw material. Or the disease, or the disease, or the disease, or the disease, or the disease, or the disease, or the disease, What if the Risk Centre does not say what the methodology is, what measures should be taken and accordingly used throughout the country, there is no other structure that can do so. It's her job. But agree that with 13-14 people who will be busy with risk assessment, this will not happen if there is no one to help, who to give an opinion and who to develop methods. We therefore propose to establish such an advisory board, and it is also in line with the structure of the ESA. We said that ESA is the European structure, the independent body that carries out food safety activities. Scientific committees and groups of scientific experts carrying out this activity exist in the structure of the ESSA. Why don't we have a similar advisory board with us? It will not be state, it will not be obliged to pay them salaries, as these are scientists who are engaged elsewhere, but have the capacity to manage the processes regarding the food chain. Thank you. I suppose you've understood what this is about and what this structure is that needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. If they haven't found out or there are objections, we'll be hearing lines now. Are there any lines? I won't. Then we're clear. Do any of the importers want to respond to this proposal? No. Any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev, and Radoslav Stoychev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 87 MPs: 18, against 48, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u133	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 21: Art. 21. (1) The structure of CORHW shall also include a contact centre of EFSA for the communication and exchange of scientific information with EFSA and other international and national risk assessment organisations on the food chain. (2) The Contact Centre under para. 1: 1. maintain a national database for experts in the different areas of the food chain; 2. establish scientific cooperation through coordination of activities, development and implementation of joint projects, exchange of experience and best practices in the fields of competence of EFSA under art. 36 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u134	These laws are like codes of some kind. Let's go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u135	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. State and local authorities, public organisations, natural and legal persons are required to provide the necessary information on request and to assist CORHW in carrying out its activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u136	Thank you. Is there any statement in art. Art. 21 and art. 22? I won't. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: 74, none, abstention 9. Art. 1 (2) (a) Art. 21 and art. 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u137	Under art. 23 there is a proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev. 23 out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for art. 23 and proposes to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u138	Statements? I won't. We vote for dropping out of art. 23 by importer. Vote 81 MPs: 76, none, abstention 5. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u139	One correction, Mr. Chairman. The Commission supports the proposal of the Members of the National Assembly and, in the second text, the Commission does not support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u140	Yeah, to reflect on the stenogram.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u141	For the stenogram: the Commission does not support. "Department III" "Employment and property." The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording of the name: "Chapter 4 "Securities and Property. Art. 24 supposed by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Radoslav Stoychev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24, which becomes Art. 23: Art. 23. (1) The Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre shall be financed by: 1. budget subsidy; 2. international programmes, projects and contracts; 3. revenue collected under art. 3, para. Art. 4, Art. 6, para. Art. 4, Art. 7, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 10, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. donations and benefits; 5. other revenues. (2) The funds under para. 1 shall be taken for a walk: 1. securing the activities of CORHW; 2. development and implementation of research projects; 3. membership of CORHW in international organizations and participation in international activities; 4. participation and implementation of international projects, programmes and contracts; 5. remuneration of external experts; 6. publishing activity; 7. organization and participation in scientific events; 8. other costs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u142	Statements? From here it is not convenient for me to ask: 4 What is the difference between donation and aid? Since there is a point of other revenue, any funds can also be obtained from any sources.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u143	It was a debate, Mr. President, in the Commission, but the importers insist that this text remains, and we supported it. Otherwise, you're quite right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u144	Okay, it's not right for me to get involved in this discussion. If there are no speeches and questions from this House, we shall proceed to the vote of Section III and Chapter Four "Financials and property" and the reported by the Commission art. 23. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 70, none, abstention 10. The title and art. 23 are accepted. Art. 25 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u145	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 25 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u146	Statements? I won't. Please vote to drop art. 25 by importer. Vote 80 MPs: 72, none, abstention 8. The motion to drop out has been accepted. We're moving on to the additional provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u147	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the purposes of this law, the definitions under art. 2 and 3 of Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, art. 2 of Regulation (EC) No 882/2004, art. Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 2008 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data 2 of Regulation (EC) No 2003/2003 of the European Parliament
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u148	Statements? I won't. Please vote on additional provisions and § 1 in the version of the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 69 against 1, abstention 9. We're moving on to § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u149	Paragraph 2? a proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 2 of the Additional Provisions: 1. create t. 1: "1." "Career development" is the acquisition of a scientific degree of Doctor and a scientific degree of Doctor of Sciences and the occupation of academic schools................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2. The text of § 2 provided for in the bill shall be t. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u150	This proposal is not, in fact, related to the reported § 2. This is a proposal to change § 2 or a proposal new.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u151	Proposition of Prof. Stankov for a change in § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u152	Report the text to the Commission as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u153	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 2: ..................................................... This law provides for measures to implement: 1. Regulation (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 January 2002 laying down the general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety; 2. Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Directives 79/117/EEC and 91/414/EEC.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u154	Thank you. Mr. Stankov, come in for a statement on your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u155	Mr President, honourable Members, I withdraw my proposal under § 2 of the Additional Provisions. I have made this proposal most benevolently and with full conviction that if by para. 3 The Center gives scientific assessments, provides scientific proposals, this should be done by researchers, by people with the necessary educational and qualification rates. Since I did not accept the previous day my proposals and those of Prof. Bachvarova, this proposal has already become meaningless. That's why I'm withdrawing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u156	Thank you. We can go straight to the vote on the version proposed by the Commission for § 2. Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 8. Paragraph 2 of the Additional Provisions has been adopted. We are going to move on to "Transitional and final provisions."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u157	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. (1) The Centre for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain shall be the successor of the assets, liabilities, archives, rights and obligations of the Centre for Risk Assessment established by the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. (2) The employment and service relationships of the employees of the Centre for Risk Assessment shall be governed under the conditions and under the terms of art. Article 123 of the Labour Code and Article 123 of the Labour Code. 87a of the Civil Service Act. (3) Until the entry into force of the acts referred to in § 5, item 3. 1 and 2 The Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre shall carry out its activities in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u158	Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote on the title "Transitional and final provisions" and § 3. Vote 74 MPs: 66, none, abstention 8. The title of the division and § 3 are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u159	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. Within three months of the entry into force of this Law, the Council of Ministers shall: 1. adopt the Rules of Procedure of the Centre for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain; 2. introduces the Rules of Procedure of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency in accordance with this Law; 3. approves the tariff under art. 6, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u160	Thank you. Are there any statements under § 4 and § 5? I won't. Please vote on the two paragraphs. Vote 76 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 5. Paragraphs 4 and 5 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u161	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... Within three months of the entry into force of this Law, the Director of the CORHW shall confirm the price signature under art. 3, para. 4. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... (1) Until the entry into force of the acts referred to in § 5, item 1. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, (2) The working and working relationships of the employees of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, acting under para. 1 shall be governed under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 1. Article 123 of the Labour Code and Article 123 of the Labour Code. 87a of the Civil Service Act in accordance with the designated functions and number of staff in the Development Rules of the Centre for Risk Assessment on the Food Chain. (3) The procedures for the approval, renewal and review of the approval of active substances, antidotes and synergists shall be completed by BABB in the current order, and in the assessment of the assessment of authorisation, renewal, amendment and withdrawal of authorisation for placing on the market and use of plant protection products by CORHW under this Law. (4) Within three months of the entry into force of the acts referred to in § 5, item 4. 1 and 2 BABH transmits a copy of the documents for authorisation, renewal, modification and withdrawal of authorisations for placing on the market and use of plant protection products to CORHW with a transmission-acceptance protocol. The documents of the plant protection products applied for until 14 June 2011 for the authorisation, renewal, amendment and withdrawal of authorisations for placing on the market and use of plant protection products shall be transmitted to the CHRC within one year from the entry into force of the acts referred to in § 5, item. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u162	Thank you. Are there any speeches on these two paragraphs? I won't. Please vote § 6 and 7 in the version of the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 72, none, abstention 8. Paragraphs 6 and 7 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u163	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In the Law on the Protection of Plants (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 2 shall be added at the end except in the cases referred to in Article 2. 2, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 of the Food Chain Risk Assessment Center Act. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37, para. 1 after the word "reviewing" is added by the Food Chain Risk Assessment Centre. 3. Article 38 is repealed. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41, para. 3 words the order under art. 38, para. The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 38, para. the following point is inserted after 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45, para. 2 after the word "Protections" is added "with the exception of carrying out assessments with assessment reports for plant protection products." 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The requirements of paragraph 2 of this Article shall not apply to plant protection products which comply with the requirements of paragraph 2 of this Article. 1 shall be established by carrying out an assessment of the product. (b) in para. 3 the words................................................................................................ 2, p. For the purposes of paragraph 1, the following definitions shall apply: the following point is (c) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The assessment under para 4 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure set out in Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 2 shall be carried out by CORHW after receiving a copy of the required documents. (d) paragraph 5 is repealed. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... § 11. In the Law on Food (prom., SG...) in art. 17, para. 4 in the text before t. 1 after the word "Riska" is added by the food chain. § 12. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u164	Are there any statements on the reported paragraphs? Everything is ready, starting tomorrow they will start creating the center, as the Law will enter into force immediately after its promulgation. There are no speeches. We shall vote on paragraphs 8 and 9 by importer, paragraphs 10 and 11, in the version of the Commission, § 12 by importer. Vote 84 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 9. This is how the second-vote texts of the Food Chain Risk Assessment Bill were adopted. The next item is: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE LOADING COMPLAINTS. We move on to the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u165	We are listening to the report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Mrs. Belova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am doing a procedure for admission in the hall of Deputy Minister Tsvetan Dimitrov, art. 46, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u167	Please be quiet in the hall. We are voting on the procedural proposal for admission in this House. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u168	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Irrigation Associations, No 602-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2016. The Commission on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 18 May 2016, discussing a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Associations for Irrigation, No 602-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2016. In the work of the Commission took part from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Assoc. Mr. Georgi Kostov Deputy Minister; Mr. Panayot Gospodinov Director of the Department of Hydromeliorations, Investment Policy &amp; M &amp; A; Ms. Magdalena Dakova Director of the Department of Legal Services &amp; Public Procurement and Sonia Simeonova Chief Expert at the Directorate of Rural Development. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Kostov, who stressed that the changes aimed at easing the procedure for setting up irrigation associations, as well as bringing its standards in line with the rules on State aid and European requirements regarding the formation of the price of water. The Bill makes three major groups of changes. The first relates to the provisions governing the activities of the establishment and operation of irrigation associations. The number of founders of an irrigation association has been reduced from 50 per cent to 30 per cent by owners and users holding and enjoying more than 50 per cent of the agricultural land in the territory of the association. The number of members of the founding Committee shall also be reduced from five to three persons. The second group of changes relates to the cancellation of a number of texts regulating the granting of preferences to irrigation associations, such as: the possibility to acquire a free right of use and ownership of hydromeliorative infrastructure and service equipment sites; the possibility to receive financial support from the State and international financial institutions for the design, repair and reconstruction of hydromeliorative infrastructure. It is deleted that, in the case of expropriation of land for public use for construction of irrigation facilities and facilities, the irrigation associations are granted a free right to construction of hydromeliorative facilities. The provision of graphic and text information to irrigation associations and their exemption from establishment, conversion, termination and liquidation fees is also excluded. The last group of changes concerns the water supply activity for irrigation, which will be carried out by water suppliers for payment. Prices will be determined by a methodology adopted by the Council of Ministers. The relevant concepts shall be introduced. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports the bill. The National Union of Water Users strongly opposed all proposals related to the removal of preferences for associations. They pointed out that irrigation associations operate in the public interest, operate without distributing profits among their members and provide their services at cost. Moreover, the activities they carry out are of a local nature, do not affect free competition and do not affect trade between the Member States of the European Union. In this sense, the concerns that these preferences can be identified as unlawful State aid are untenable. The following discussion was attended by the Members of the National Assembly: prof. Ivan Stankov, Rumen Hristov, Prof. Svetla Bachvarova and Sultanka Petrova. From BSP's parliamentary group left Bulgaria said they would refrain from supporting the bill. They expressed reservations related to the reduction of the number of founders of an irrigation association. They pointed out that there was uncertainty as to the methodology for setting the prices for water supply for irrigation and the order for granting state ownership to associations. Among the parliamentary groups of the ABB and the Patriotic Front assessed the proposed changes as good and said they would support the bill. During the discussion it was recalled that the adoption of the changes would allow farmers to be supported under Measure 4.1. For investments in irrigation facilities and equipment involving the construction of new and improvement of existing farms networks. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 12 votes for the Irrigation Act, No 602-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 May 2016, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Irrigation Association Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u169	Thank you. Does anyone wish to present the bill on behalf of the importer? No. I'm opening up the debate that he wants to make a point. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u170	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed amendments to the Law on Irrigation Associations are significantly different, first of all, from the expectations of farmers themselves for having access to water and from now on to develop their holdings in terms of competitiveness and in terms of sustainable agricultural income. It is also significantly different from the proposals made in the Strategy developed by the World Bank. As you remember, I last parliament and in this was extended the period in which a Water Strategy in Bulgaria for Irrigation was to be developed. This Strategy is up to 2030. The proposals made in this Strategy are significantly different from what is currently being proposed to us as a bill. I would like to remind you that recently the Minister of Agriculture and Food announced that the Bulgarian fruits and vegetables on the market are no more than 10% and the reason for this is one single reason, namely the lack of the possibility to produce competitive fruits and vegetables at prices that will be in line with the countries of the European Union. I would just like to remind you that in most countries of the European Union, including Greece, where the largest stream is, water for irrigation is free for farmers, while with us changes in the Law happens exactly the opposite. The strategy, which I personally support and accept as a good prerequisite for the upgrade and development of the irrigation facilities of the country, gives a very frustrating picture of the situation of the sector at the moment. Of the 12 million acres of watering areas in the 1990s, the State-owned state-owned state-owned state-owned Irrigation Systems is taking care of 235 irrigation facilities that are designed for 7.4 million acres of watering areas. However, since irrigation water is extremely expensive, maintenance is inefficient, annually watering between 200 and 300 thousand acres of land. Adding to the fact that "Irrigation systems" in order to maintain its staff and the alimony, which are very largely growing and fulfilling its duties, since 2011, we have constantly witnessed how a large part of the facilities were scrapped for scrapping at least then in the media ended that 15 thousand tons of pipes were scrapped. Yesterday, the Council of Ministers agreed that assets of "Irrigation systems" are being sold and again to cover the debts accordingly. And against this background, with this state of "Irrigation systems" with the proposed amendments to the Law on Irrigation Associations, we say that these associations will not be able to work from now on, because the changes lead precisely to the inability to fulfil their obligations, although, I say again, in the World Bank Strategy, they are given extremely high hopes. The Rural Development Programme provides for 99 million. EUR to be absorbed by irrigation associations under certain conditions, which, accordingly, say that a fair first price of water must be allowed, i.e. investments made by associations must lead to a reduction in the cost of water and be available as a resource for farmers. It also figures out the requirement for budget support in the Strategy to protect against the harmful effects of water as a share of the total cost to be overcome with regard to such damage. Instead of analysing these recommendations accordingly and making good sense through the proposed amendments to the Law, we are witnessing the exact opposite direction in the proposals. Firstly, it is important to emphasise that the State is withdrawing from any support from the irrigation associations. Starting from the inability to obtain graphic and text information on agricultural land, to the fees for their establishment, conversion, termination and liquidation. These possibilities have been removed in the Law, however it is not clear how associations established in the public interest should be assisted by the State because all the texts in the Law that concern any degree of support have disappeared and are rejected in the current Law. Secondly, in the current Law, hydromeliorative facilities are granted to irrigation facilities and they have the right to manage them, provide the service and maintain these facilities. I would like to emphasise that, in the current Law and in five years of maintenance of facilities and investments, they are transferred free of charge to these associations. Now what are they telling us? That the infrastructure that will be provided to the associations will be the result of a regulation, completely unclear how this property will be transferred, but, in our opinion, the assets will be transferred at market prices because there is a text that sneaks in that, you see, these associations are using unregulated State aid. In addition, the assets transferred are required to be insured in full by the irrigation associations. Currently there are about 107 associations in Bulgaria. Thirty-one associations benefit from assets of..Irrigation systems.................................................................................................... I would like to draw attention to the fact that no evidence has been provided so far that the granting of the assets and investments constitute State aid. The question is why, until now, if the Ministry of Agriculture thought it was State aid, did not make an official request to the competent institutions of the European Commission in order to be able to respond imperatively to State aid or not? We're just guessing here, but we're assuming it's state aid. Because the envisaged changes prevent the existence of irrigation associations at all and deprive any investment that is being made in them of any guarantee. Irrigation associations are entities providing the conditions of general economic interest. They work without distributing profits among their members, but also provide their services at the lowest possible price, i.e. at cost. They are entities operating of a purely local nature and in no way affect trade between the Member States of the European Union. They are a property organisation and operate on infrastructure serving a particular property, respectively water users and in no way affect free competition, based on the fact that infrastructure cannot be moved or used elsewhere. Therefore, any proposals for possible State aid are, in our view, untenable and unfounded. Thirdly, the draft Law provides for the imposition of a single price for water use as a service. The current Law states that the irrigation associations calculate their costs, deductions and investments and offer a price for irrigation, which is respectively validated by the Minister of Agriculture and the Council of Ministers. Now it is said that there will be a single methodology that will say what the price for irrigation will be. But this methodology, to my great amazement, is not ready at all and is not working on it at all, because the Bill predicted that three months later we would have something like a methodology. And at what cost the service will be presented, no one can say. But the fact is that in Bulgaria the price of irrigation is impossible for any occupation in the sector................... and therefore the results are such, i.e. we water 200,000 acres instead of 7 million acres. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that the future is of countries that have huge water resources and are capable of using them. Even I, as a man who works in the field of agriculture, who watches climate change, will not even oil be as valuable as the water that each country has. And if we do not do what is necessary to keep this resource, to bring it into the economy in a way that provides competitive agriculture, believe me, we have no future as a country. Everything else we do must be subject to this interest, to this public interest, to water for irrigation, to drinking water being used as much as possible for our economy and for our country. Thank you. We won't support the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u171	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u172	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I disagree with most of the things you said. From your statement, we are some coldhearted liquidators of "Irrigation systems" and associations, which is not true at all! You spoke a little while ago and said what is the allocated amount under the Rural Development Programme for use by farmers for building irrigation facilities. However, this possibility shall be conditional. You know the terms as well as I do. The first condition was the adoption of the World Bank's report and the Strategy for the Development of the Sector "Irrigation and Melioration" in general terms. The second condition is that we state in a firm way to Brussels that this is not about unlawful State aid. There are drillings made by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to Brussels. They have categorically said that everything we have been commenting on so far in the Bill and given as an opportunity and option to water syndicates is considered to be unlawful aid. The third condition is to get final, I cannot say the exact name, mapping or something of this kind of groundwater that Bulgaria owns and, in particular, the four pool directorates. I know the two are ready, the other two are not ready with their final opinion yet. After meeting these three requirements, we will start the Rural Development Programme. Yes, you are right, water is very valuable and important for Bulgarian agriculture and especially for the development of vegetable production and fruiting. Let's not go back years to 12 million acres. Then you know what kind of money they were pouring in. There was a special fund. Let us not calculate how effective irrigation was and whether it led to the economic effect that we are talking about today because we are a market economy, or whether we were simply meeting requirements for the world. These 12 million acres are gone and the reality is completely different. We are talking about maintaining available capacities and enabling farmers to benefit from the Rural Development Programme. Between the first and second votes, we will discuss what the representatives of the water trade unions have raised as questions in the discussion in the Committee on Agriculture. I assure you that all this is being done, I say again, in order to meet the requirements so that it can start the program as soon as possible. The expectations there of farmers are indeed very high. As far as the average price methodology is concerned, you may be here with rights.. It will be difficult to make such a methodology. I hope that the Ministry of Agriculture with the expertise it has will continue to work in this direction and even before the launch of the Programme it will be clear what the cost of water will be, at least indicatively, so that farmers can navigate and know whether to make these expensive investments, because investment in irrigation facilities is something very expensive. With regard to speculation that with this Law we are almost trying to privatize Irritative Systems, there is no such thing! "Irrigation systems" for many years, including during your management, has been in severe financial crisis. This is because part of the funds it receives as a state support goes to the so-called, if I may say so, public utility, such as drainage, conservation from flooding of areas and settlements along the rivers, correction of dikes, shores and so on. In this sense, business revenues are difficult to cover the costs incurred. We have repeatedly raised this question to the Ministry of Finance. There's no solution now. These people, however, have been without wages for a long time... both with you and with the current government. They are looking for a way to pay their salaries because you cannot support a family without a salary of three, four months or six months! Don't look at the bill as some kind of attempt to eradicate a useful structure. It was established on a proposal from the World Bank and must be an intermediate link between the state, as the owner of water, of underground wealth, and users of water. The idea is to unblock the process of launching the projects in the field of hydromelioration. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Hristov! Back and forth on the topic of Irrigation Systems. "Irrigation systems" is led to bankruptcy. The fact is that in the first management of GERB were scrapped extremely many facilities. Now, every week, property is offered for sale, which means that the Irrigation Systems is in systemic crisis and cannot meet the requirements for participation, including in the Rural Development Programme. You are wrong about the fact that the state has withdrawn from the Waters Act, because in 2014 with a change in the Water Act, the budget was provided for the possibility to finance activities related to risk situations in terms of drainage and others that the Irrigation Systems (Irrigation Systems) implemented each year, including this year,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ They were created again on the World Bank's recommendation. When we are changing the rules dramatically and they are not in line with the current Strategy developed again by the World Bank, the only economic conclusion that can be drawn is that they will cease to exist. You're taking away everything they've had so far as advantages, because they're in the public interest. They do not form profits, work for their members to be able to carry out their production activities and provide the service. Therefore, the Bill is hasty and does not fulfil any of the opportunities to boast at least what we have so far as irrigation in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u175	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, it is better to have these disputes in the Committee on Agriculture and not to engage the entire audience at the moment because there is a vote on this bill. Under no circumstances do I agree that we are deliberately leading Irrigation Systems to liquidation! What wins, no matter who manages Bulgaria, if a company needed by the country fails?! What's the point of bankrupting a company that benefits anyway, has assets, deals with such activity?! Your accusations are purely oppositionive. Of course, it is your right, but I do not see intent in the current leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, nor in the government, to lead an enterprise deliberately to bankruptcy, because it will not win either the ruling majority or the society as a whole!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The topic of Irrigation Systems is extremely old, not from today. Our parliamentary group is quite surprised why it is at this very moment that changes are being introduced so quickly. I'm gonna do a flashback. Immediately after democracy, this state policy was thrown into the corner and facilities built for years were scrapped and not used. A number of areas used in the most useful way for different crops are no longer listed for irrigated crops. When we take out an example certificate from "Irrigation systems" to irrigate a certain category of land falling.The land is unusable. Now with this thing I have a concern that we are taking the next step to destroy irrigation systems in Bulgaria. Because in itself the company no longer has the capacity, there is no possibility to maintain these radiation systems, and farmers every year have an extreme need to receive quality goods, that is, to bring them water without having any difficulties and to be regular when necessary. Irrigation associations, by my observations, most of them use this form of association only to be able to use dams for commercial activity. I have another concern that this change that is now being introduced is a kind of attempt to hide the privatisation of these dams certainly after such an action I do not expect it to happen to improve the irrigation of agricultural land, to build new facilities. On the contrary, dams will be closed only for fish farming and other farmers will be deprived of the possibility of receiving water for irrigation. In no way should we pass this matter lightly. On the contrary, we need to find a way to restore this system. It is obvious that there is an extremely large amount of money that the state can hardly afford at this time. And we need to find some other form in which to stimulate farmers themselves to maintain these registration facilities. The fact is that more than 50 of the existing facilities are no longer available........................................................... the pipes that were underground, these spray stations no longer exist...................................................................................................................................................................................... Nothing in these texts that we are currently being offered shows one step forward, at least to put an end to this process in the future. My concern is that we will indeed enter into a regime of hidden privatization that will further hamper the process of irrigation the agricultural land. Farmers will face another more difficult situation. You yourself know that not everywhere there are irrigation associations and how many people enter these irrigation associations. For example, in the land of a local place, where there is a dam, how many farmers enter a irrigation company, a small part, others do not enter. [[GERB lines.]] Please don't replicate me in this room. For this reason, I ask the MPs to consider once again these texts and not to support them in order to find a more optimal form to be able to improve the irrigation system in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-26.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate, and I'm calling the vote tomorrow at 9:00. Parliamentary Control Communication for 27 May 2016, Friday, 11:00: 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer a question from the MP Cornelia Ninova. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer two questions from the People's Svetoslav Belemezov; and Philip Popov and Georgi Svilenski. 3. The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer 5 questions from the MPs Slavi Binev - two questions; Petar Kadiev; Chavdar Peychev; and Stanislav Stanilov, and one question from the MP Slavi Binev. 4. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 20 questions from the MPs Iskren Veselinov Two questions; Durhfan Mustafa; Dragomir Stoynev and Georgi Gokov; Emil Raynov; Milen Mihov; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Ivan Kirilov Ivanov; Georgi Kadiev 5. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer six questions from the MPs Georgi Kadiev; Zhelyo Boychev; Magdalena Tasheva, two questions; Vassil Antonov; and Nastimir Ananiev and Dimitar Tanev. 6. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will answer 6 questions from the MPs Slavi Binev two questions; Velizar Enchev two questions; Atanas Zafirov; Stanislav Stanilov. 7. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer 11 questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov two questions; Nastimir Ananiev two questions; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Kiril Dobrev and Radoslav Stoychev; Filip Popov; Vasil Antonov; Emil Raynov; Slavi Binev; and Nikolay Alexandrov and one question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev. 8. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova will answer four questions from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov, Willi Lilkov, Dimitar Bajraktarov, and Durhan Mustafa. 9. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer seven questions from the MPs Slavi Binev two questions; Antony Trenchev; Martin Dimitrov, Valeri Simeonov, Methodie Andreev and Petar Slavov; Rumen Gechev; Stanislav Stavilov; and Nikola Hadzhiyski and three questions from the MPs Slavi Binev; Antony Trenchev; Valeri Zablyanov and Zhelio Boychev. 10. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer a question from the MP Vasil Antonov. 11. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer two questions from the MPs Slavi Binev, and Stanislav Stanilov. 12. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer 1 question from MP Willy Lilkov. 13. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer two questions and one question from the MP Willy Lilkov. 14. The Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer a question from the MP Metodi Andreev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on a question with written answer from the MPs Milena Damyanova and Georg Georgiev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, to two questions with written answer from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Svilenski; and Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to two questions with a written answer from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to five questions with written answer from the MPs Vili Lilkov and Petar Slavov; Georgi Svilenski; Stoyan Mirchev to two questions, and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; and Stanislav Stanilov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - three questions from the MP Yavor Haytov to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov; the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva; and the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. In the absence of the country, the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to the use of leave, the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to previous commitments, the Minister for Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. I'm adjourning the plenary session. ??? Tomorrow's regular plenary session, starting at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]] ?
