ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear MPs, according to our announced weekly programme at the beginning of today's plenary day, the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Rosen Plevneliev will address after the political consultations with the parliamentary parties are completed. Mr. Lazarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u2	Dear Madam President, dear Mr President! Dear Madam President, please put to the vote to be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian national television and the Bulgarian national radio address of Mr. President. This is important. After the meetings held with all parliamentary political parties, we are about to hear, and this is also important for the Bulgarian citizens, the address of Mr. President in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u3	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal for direct broadcast on the National Television and National Radio of the address of the President of the Republic Mr. Plevneliev. We vote. They voted 143 MPs: 133, against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u4	Dear Madam President of the National Assembly, honourable Members! It is a good tradition that I make this address to the National Assembly after the end of the month of political consultations. This initiative of the presidential institution, which we held for the fifth consecutive year, has become a working platform for a fruitful interinstitutional debate. I thank all the parliamentary represented political forces for the constructive dialogue and the responsible approach you demonstrated during the talks. I believe that, despite the political differences, institutional respect is a solid foundation for the upgrade of state order. We discussed the current political situation in the country, the reforms on the agenda, but we also looked forward to Horizon 2030. Thank you for the full agreement reached on the National Development Programme "Bulgaria 2020" which we forged in the presidential institution. This is an undeniable achievement of Bulgarian statehood. The fifth government is already working on its implementation, and this year we can begin the debate and the beginning of the preparations for "Bulgaria 2030." Our country has a unique chance to approach ambitiously and put forward clear, long-term, strategic development goals. Such an opportunity provides us with two world events of historical significance, for which Bulgaria has also contributed. All member states of the United Nations organisation adopted with full agreement during the year the 17 global sustainable planet development targets by 2030. In Paris, all countries adopted by consensus the Paris Climate Agreement with clear objectives and commitments up to 2100 years and fully in the interests of the next generations. They focused on strategic planning during the consultations because the examples of history show that successful countries are the ones that have an ideal but also an action plan, and where the political elite is united around national priorities. This is the way to overcome political opposition at all costs, to stop citizens' growing distrust of politicians and institutions. We must show that regardless of ideological differences we are able to unite on national priorities, to work consistently, to show continuity. In the years of transition and especially after 1997 Bulgaria had and achieved its strategic goals for membership in the European Union and NATO to introduce a market economy. We must look ahead and form new national goals to mobilise Bulgarian institutions and society. Such objectives can be building a socially responsible economy, eliminating poverty and social exclusion, targeted support for the backward regions, speeding up the modernisation of the country, full Schengen membership, entry into the Eurozone, activation of the European Energy Union in the Balkans and others. The launch of new integration projects and the setting of ambitious but achievable goals for the Bulgarian state is extremely important, even more in difficult times. When it's hard, we'll show that we have a plan. We now have the historic chance to link global sustainable development targets to our national objectives and priorities to Horizon 2030. We will act wisely if we start the debate this year and start the preparation for the National Development Program. Dear MPs, the complex and uncertain geopolitical environment in the world requires that the country has stability, security, predictability. Political stability means responsible action by everyone! The dialogue at the forty-third National Assembly today is more constructive than in the forty-second National Assembly. And thank you for that. Political stability is an important prerequisite for implementing reforms and improving the economic environment. However, stability is not a goal but a means. Our goal is progress and development. That is why reforms are needed and there is no other alternative. Political stability is not important in itself, it is not called upon to provide the comfort of politicians. It is necessary as a factor for investment, for development, to improve people's lives. We have discussed together the lessons learned from the two years of extraordinary political instability, in which five governments and three parliaments have changed. We realize that the clash of ideas is useful, but pointless opposition is disastrous. This is the responsibility of the parties that support the government, but also the democratic opposition. In 2015, it was made in a number of sectors. After twenty-five years of dark Bulgarian services finally have a clear legislative framework to work on. I would like to thank the Members of the National Security Council for adopting the package of laws in the sector of Security, on which a consensus was reached by the Advisory Council on National Security in 2012. In a regime of highly representative and constructive dialogue, the pension model was improved towards financial stabilisation of the pension system and improved the adequacy of pensions in the long term. For the first time, the Health Insurance Fund is not at a minus, and the National Electric Company is clearly healing. Through the changes in the Law on pre-school and school education, the most meaningful national priority was supported, with emphasis on vocational education, the introduction of a dual training system for building the education-business relationship, in order to reduce youth unemployment and the revival of vocational schools. During the year, a decisive surge in energy was made. We are working effectively on the national priorities set for energy efficiency, diversification and liberalisation. The legislative and executive powers have taken decisive steps that have already produced results. The liberalization of the electricity market in the country is happening at a rapid pace. More than 250 thousand Bulgarians joined the National Energy Efficiency Programme and thousands of citizens already feel the real effect through the significantly lower electricity bills. Thanks to the National Energy Efficiency Programme for the first time in Bulgarian energy will win not the oligarchs, but hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians, on which the electricity bills will fall twice and their properties will increase their value. I hope that this extremely meaningful National Programme will benefit the most backward regions of Bulgaria by appealing to create a special mechanism for them. The Energy and Water Regulator Commission has been directly elected by Parliament for the first time and today we see as a result a better functioning and independent regulator. We have all supported interconnections and the development of our own gas fields. These are meaningful actions to protect the nation's energy security. All these positive examples show that when acting constructively and nationally responsible, we can achieve good results. These successes must ambitious us to continue with reforms at an even faster pace. A number of positive steps were also taken last year with the adoption of the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform. The amendments made to the Constitution are useful and correct, they are important but not a sufficient step forward. During the consultations, all parliamentary represented political forces unanimously united behind the extreme importance of reform in justice and the fight against corruption. Here the time of the declarations is long gone, decisive action must be taken! We say that effective justice and the fight against corruption is a national priority, but there are no visible results yet. We have extremely low confidence in citizens in the system of over 90% of Bulgarians do not trust law enforcement authorities. In recent years, reform in justice has been reduced mainly to writing measures and reports in response to European Commission recommendations. If our vision of judicial reform is to play out a situation from report to report, we will not achieve results. The national objective is independent and effective justice in the interests of not individual but of all citizens. How strong is the will for reforms will be when the upcoming amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, the procedural laws, the anti-corruption legislation are adopted. Changes are needed in the direction of faster and more effective judicial proceedings, greater accountability of the prosecution, development of objective rules and criteria for the career growth of magistrates and accidental rather than manipulated distribution of cases. Judicial reform is this area that clearly shows how important it is that legislative and executive decisions are taken through an integrated approach. The equality of everyone before the law cannot be achieved only by changing a few laws or the Constitution. Doing justice is not solely the responsibility of the court and the prosecution. The Master's System is inextricably linked in its work with the Ministry of Interior, with the control, tax, customs authorities. I hope that, precisely now that we are about to adopt several extremely important laws, we will create these mechanisms that will ensure the effectiveness of implementation through an integrated approach and not the institutions to throw their responsibility at each other and blame each other. They're all declaring willpower to fight corruption. That's what the people want. Instead of waiting for another report on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, which once again finds that there is no progress, now is the time for a decisive reversal with the adoption of strong anti-corruption legislation. As president, I will continue to stand up for the position that judicial reform is at the heart of everything. It's mandatory! It is the only way to improve democracy and restore citizens' trust. The people expect deep reform in justice and a real fight against corruption on the high levels of power. Reaching a broad political agreement on deep judicial reform and brave anti-corruption legislation will be a strong sign to the Bulgarian society of political will to change. There's a presidential election coming up. I hope these are the only elections of the year to be held in a civilised way without populism, without unprincipled opposition. Let there be as many candidates as possible, ideas, decisions the people will choose the best of them. Ladies and gentlemen, the normalization and calming of the political situation in the country after two years of extraordinary instability have already given its results. The economic environment in the country is improving. All the main indicators for 2015 show that the economy is on the rise: we achieved good growth of 3%, exports rose by 12%; we reported 40% growth in foreign investment; we noted an increase in revenue in the budget of 2.8 billion. lv.; unemployment fell to 9.2%. In the process of absorption of funds from the European funds in 2015, the best result was achieved. The balance for Bulgaria from the first programming period is more than positive, with 96% of the EU funds being absorbed and we are at a plus of over 17 billion. lv. This must be remembered and known! In the new programming period, I hope that we will be even more ambitious and effective. A prerequisite for this is the strong political will to modernize, to properly plan and manage state and European funds. Administrative reform and e-government have been the theme of the month of political consultations for the fifth year. It is clear to everyone that this reform will help to dramatically improve the business environment and speedy economic development of the country. Electronic governance is a decisive factor in increasing the confidence of citizens and investors. The general assessment is that one of the main obstacles to business are administrative difficulties. For only one building permit, we force citizens to pray to dozens of institutions and desks. 2016 is decisive for the introduction of e-government. I believe that the Members of the National Assembly will be responsible for the adoption of the Law on Electronic Identification. It offers numerous innovations with regard to the introduction of electronic governance and will facilitate the establishment of a reliable system for electronic remote voting. I put on the agenda and the issue of creating economic incentives to support small and medium-sized enterprises, sensible policies in support of small farmers, farmers, as well as investments in high-value added production. Of course, this will change Bulgaria quickly and for good. The focus of the talks was the reform of the Ministry of Interior. Cooked amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act are a good opportunity to strengthen the capacity of all units in the system. The court and the police, the institutions in general are law enforcement. If there is no independent court, if there are no policemen who wear the uniform with honor, if there are independent regulators and regulators who work face to face with the people, there is no way we can move forward. One of the most pressing and priority reforms is health care. At the moment, neither doctors nor patients are satisfied with the system, and every year the public funds allocated to it are growing significantly. In recent years, this has been the reform that has led too often to a sharp political clash. When it comes to people's health, it is good not to politicize too much, but to approach expert ones. Health has no price. We owe the people because the system does not work effectively enough, and citizens do not get the desired access to quality health care. This must and can be changed by wise legislative decisions. The demographic crisis in the country is a huge challenge to the nation in the medium and long term. The solution of the demographic problem goes through educational and health reform, as well as through active policies for Bulgarians abroad. We must use the potential of Bulgarian communities abroad. On this topic, I plan to convene the National Security Advisory Council during the year. We expressed our common concern about the deepening imbalances in the development of certain regions in the country. These regions need targeted support programmes. We have to work for connectivity because the poorest Bulgarian regions are precisely those that are most isolated. On the contrary, in southern Bulgaria we see more tourists, growth in investments, increase in incomes and employment on the road of newly built highways. Growth can be achieved in any environment, but progress that is tangible to any member of society is only possible through rules and institutions that guarantee them. I therefore refused to veto the ban on wild camping by calling on the responsible authorities to take follow-up action to ensure the maximum preservation of the overall appearance of the beaches for environmentally friendly tourism. I have called for a comprehensive policy for the development of tourism and protection of the Black Sea coast, including rules for camping. I am for clear and democratic rules taking into account the interests of all citizens. I am pleased to see that there is a new bill to lift the absolute ban, but to introduce rules. I hope that these rules will be publicly discussed and that consensus will be sought. I have repeatedly appealed to the end of the vicious last-minute practice and without prior discussion of major legislative changes. Thank you for hearing my call for consideration of the amendments to the Law on Legislative Acts in order to introduce a mandatory impact assessment. Only through publicity, transparency and clear motives of the proposals can we convince Bulgarian citizens that the legislative authority takes into account their interests and seeks the reasonable balance in the state government. I thank the National Assembly for being responsible for supporting the outcome of the referendum for introducing the electronic remote vote. The forthcoming amendments to the Election Code must give an adequate solution to its real implementation. Finding a technical solution to ensure the secret of the vote should not be an excuse for its indefinite delay in time. The citizens have already spoken. If we do not now establish the principled rules with clear deadlines for the experimental introduction and for the real possibility by e-voting, this would soon replace the vote to nearly 2 million. Bulgarians. The introduction of a mandatory vote was one of the issues on which I asked for a referendum to be held. Unfortunately, this has not happened and we are now facing yet another legislative change that expresses the will of one part of the parliamentary forces. That is exactly what I have tried to overcome, honourable MPs, with the idea of a referendum, because polling the people gives us the most accurate answer to who is right, who is not, gives us the will of the sovereign. The regulation of fundamental issues for the democratic functioning of the state can only be sustainable when it is in line with the will of the people. The opposite, legislative changes, which the next majority has changed to its own advantage, have been observed for 25 years. This stimulates uncertainty and mistrust. Democratic statehood is impossible without the construction of strong regulatory authorities. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC) has been strengthened, it is now time for the Communications Regulation Commission, the Commission for Electronic Media, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Commission for Protection of Competition and others. Parliament must urgently identify its representatives to take their place in these key regulators. The contrary condemns them to an institutional crisis and puts them in no way to fulfill the mission for which they are called. This has a negative impact not only on the work of regulators, but also on the authority and legitimacy of their decisions, but very important ones are ahead. The situation in the media environment today more than ever shows the need for a strong and effective regulator. Dear MPs, we share the common concern about the sharp deterioration of the international security environment. We are going through a period of global turbulence and a record number of crises, and the interactions between them make the international environment even more uncertain and unpredictable. There is common concern about the migration crisis close to our borders. Bulgaria has demonstrated a responsible approach for the third year and is the only country in the region that respects the rules. We have shown that we can protect the external borders of the European Union much better than many Schengen countries. In the migrant crisis, unilateral solutions do not work and do not lead to calming the situation. Evidence of this is the events of recent months on the so-called Balkan route. We need a common European solution and this is the only way to find a sustainable and lasting response. We are solid with people fleeing the war, but at the same time we must make a clear distinction between refugees and economic migrants, to whom we can honestly say that we cannot secure the dream future for everyone. I am pleased that the political parties are united in their assessment of the risks behind the migration crisis and are not looking for the close-party dividend. Bulgarian institutions monitor the development of a situation close to our borders. Additional response measures were taken to complicate the situation. We are aware of the exceptional dynamicity of the processes we observe and we will continue to work in an institutional dialogue and cooperation regime to ensure the security of Bulgarian citizens. The changed security environment increases risks and threats globally and regionally; conventional and hybrid wars; frozen conflicts; terrorist attacks make international order increasingly unstable. Bulgaria, as a member of NATO country, is responsible for fulfilling its allied commitments. Investments in defence and national security must be targeted wisely and effectively in priority sectors. Thank you for adopting the Armed Forces Programme by 2020. Cyber attacks on election day last year confirmed the need to develop a national cybersecurity strategy, but also to secure resources to build adequate cyber defence capabilities. Bulgaria is well positioned in international relations. We have a principled and balanced foreign policy. We headed the rotating chairmanship of the "Cooperation in Southeast Europe" process in the 20th anniversary, which opens up new opportunities to strengthen our role as a key factor in the Balkans, which is recognised by everyone. Bulgaria is today also Chairman of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. This increases our country's international authority even more. The active and principled foreign policy that we are pursuing gives rise to its fruitage. In the last four years, our exports to Southeast European countries have increased by 50%. Euros. Until now, good neighbourliness and cooperation between countries in the region have not been such a decisive factor for positive development. The trade between Bulgaria and Romania increased ten times, between Bulgaria and Serbia three times, with Greece increased six times over the years, with Turkey. The five largest export markets in Bulgaria today are Germany and Italy, and three of our neighbouring countries - Turkey, Greece and Romania. Today we are increasingly seeing a return to geopolitical techniques and ideas from the past. The challenges we face bring back memories of past times, in which not principles but interests defined actions on the international stage. Bulgaria, the Balkans and Europe as a whole, paid a very high price for this. In the 21st century, we need new ideas based on the lessons learned from history. Today, some politicians in Bulgaria say: What are these European values important national interests?I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, European values are: peace, rule of law, human rights and freedoms. These are also our Bulgarian values. We want peace, but lasting peace is only possible through the rule of law and not the interests. Lasting peace is possible when everyone contributes to it.. both the strong and the weak and the rich and the poor and the great and the small, and not when the great powers distribute spheres of influence. Lasting peace is achievable when peoples do not isolate themselves behind fences and walls, but achieve such a level of cooperation and integration that will make future war impossible. That is why Bulgaria, as President of the Process, has set priorities, connectivity, security and support for active civil society for strengthening the foundations of democratic statehood. As President of the Process, Bulgaria is now leading all 13 countries in the region that participate in this Process. This is also how we act as President of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, where we are taking 47 countries today. Bulgaria also received huge international recognition and was invited to be a member of the group "Araiolosz" and was hosted at a meeting in 2016. Dear MPs, I am proud to inform you that in Plovdiv and in Sofia in September the presidents of Germany, Italy, Austria, Poland, Portugal, Estonia, Hungary, Bulgaria and many European leaders will seek together a solution to increase confidence in the European Union in a period of increasing risks and unstable international order. The responsibility lies with us to restore trust in the European institutions, to strengthen the foundations of the European project. Bulgaria works for European unity because the European Union is, above all, a peace union, rules, not narrow national interests and billions of EU funds. Dear Members of Parliament, it is important that, when we look forward, we do not forget the revival and enlightenment ideas of democracy, equality before the law and personal freedom for everyone laid in the foundations of our national ideal and the Third Bulgarian State. When we talk about liberators and enslavers, we must also free ourselves from dogmas and prejudice, believe in our power of free people, raise our national self-esteem as a people who created one of the first statesmen in Europe and gave much to the world. We need to work together forward for the common national ideal and interest. Let us always remember and follow the apostle of freedom, who wanted us to free ourselves, and not let anyone else come to free us, for whoever frees us will enslave us. Levski sacrificed himself for the Fatherland and for freedom, creating patiently and wholeheartedly secret committees to build the ability of the Bulgarians for purposeful and well-organized common action. He dreamed of the pure and holy Republic and the rules in which all people have equal rights, regardless of ethnic and religious affiliation. Today, however, in Bulgaria, in Europe and around the world are gaining speed xenophobia, hate language, extreme populism and nationalism, expressed mainly in hatred and fear of foreigners and minorities, and we need modern patriotism, enlightened nationalism, firmly stepping on the love of our country and respect for the different. The world will respect us for the fact that Bulgarians are tolerant, enlightened, decent people who created the rule of law, human rights and freedoms. Bulgaria cannot prosper in a regime of populism, extreme nationalism, oligarchy and behind-the-scenes dependence in politics, economy and media. Investors in a country like this just won't come. I appeal to everyone to make a decisive contribution to a socially responsible economy, to working democracy and equality before the law for all. Today there are ideas for writing new national doctrines, voices that we lack ideal and direction. This seems to be a comfortable thesis, but it is deeply false. We have both an ideal and a direction set by our reborns. Their words are not just a romantic part of the history books. They have their modern reading. We must follow their legacy. I will not agree with all those who question European values and seek some new national ideal prepared in known political laboratories, and then bow to the portrait of the Apostle, who has asked us to actually achieve equality with other European peoples. When are we being honest? When we express our gratitude to Levski or when we work in a direction other than the one he left behind? The ideal for the pure and holy Republic, for the social and rule of law, has not been realized. It takes action, not words. We have proven as a country and a nation that when we are united and follow the national ideal, we achieve results. I believe that with mutual effort and agreement, we will succeed. Thank you, and I wish you a successful job! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Please turn off the National Television cameras and radio microphones. We continue with the parliamentary tradition that after the address of the Head of State, statements from the parliamentary groups will be made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u6	Why did you shut down the cameras?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u7	Because you don't know what the offer was made. What we have done and taken as a decision is done, colleagues! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Mr. Philip Popov's procedure. [[Noise.]] Keep an eye on what we voted on. It wasn't that long ago. 40 minutes ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u8	Thank you, Madam President. To continue the tradition I make a procedural proposal that the cameras of BNT and the microphones of BNR be included when reading declarations on behalf of the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u9	Tradition is in the opposite direction, but... Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 158 MPs: 56 against 35, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. Which of the representatives of the political forces is willing to make a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u10	Let's do the Facebook statements, there'll be more viewing there.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u11	Colleagues, there is an offer on Facebook to make statements. [[Noise. A large part of the MPs of BSP LB leave the hall.]] Mr. Karakachanov will go first.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u12	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues! I think that after the President's statement, which was made after consultation with all the parliamentary groups, it is appropriate that the parliamentary groups express their views on those who have been developed and add something, if there is anything to add, to what we have heard. Dear Mr. President, with many of the things that you have said, I absolutely agree with the fact that Bulgaria needs purpose, ideal, unification around national interests. In fact, this is at the heart of the normal development of every normal country. However, let us all ask ourselves the question: is there a clearly formulated objective that is generally accepted by all significant political and social factors and by the Bulgarian society? In the President's statement, there was also a request that we do not need a doctrine, we do not need further declaration of goals, because we have them from our Renaissance. That's right. The Bulgarian Revival awarded those ideals and goals during which the Third Bulgarian Kingdom existed, namely the time in which Bulgaria achieved its greatest successes in economic and political, of course, in this period there were downfalls, but the bad thing is that in Bulgaria the ideals of our Renaissance are read sometime, as the devil reads the Gospel. Because in addition to the beautiful, noble words of Levski, that we want to be equal to other peoples, which is true, and that is an objective and ideal that we in our free future Bulgarian state will respect the rights of all of us, and that is true, and that is a goal and ideal, but we have to say and read to the end what he has said, and Levski says the following: these are the two foundations on which the policy of the Bulgarian state is being built after its liberation from Turkish slavery, precisely: The one who has freed us will enslave us. This is the desire for an independent foreign national policy and Bulgaria makes it with all the sacrifices it has cost her, including the assassination of Prime Minister Stambolov killed because he led precisely such a national and independent policy. Levski says: "Everyone will be equal and will be interested in both Bulgarians and Bulgarians, and Turks and Jews, but he adds under the law the rule of Bulgarian law and the Bulgarian interest, not foreign interests, whether external, regional or global, under whose cover someone is trying to implement the first part of his covenant. He also says something else: "And we want to live free in Bulgaria, Thrace and Macedonia. "This was also the ideal of our politics after the Liberation of Bulgaria. "The freedom and liberation of all Bulgarians. Reading all the way to Levski, let us answer: what does modern Bulgarian politics do in the last 70 years and does it correspond to these ideals? I agree that these are the ideals on which Bulgaria should move, but because they are forgotten, misplaced or intentionally missed when someone is comfortable, it is nice to remind them. Yes, these are the objectives, but it is a good thing that the entire Bulgarian Parliament - it is a pity that the left part of the hall in this debate after the President's speech, or as was the tradition in the Third Bulgarian Kingdom - responded to the throne speech, did not find it necessary to express its position. [[BSP LB.]] I'm saying it's a shame, because there's no opposition here in this room, there's no government when we talk about national interests. When we talk about the nation, about Bulgaria's future, we should put our party selfishness, our party ambitions in the back pocket, and here we should talk like Bulgarian politicians who are responsible to the future of the state. Therefore, this conversation was absolutely necessary. If the Bulgarian Parliament is able to put aside the small party differences or the cheap bills it makes for the elections one or another, or a third party, then Bulgaria will live better, Bulgarian citizens will live better and the rating of parliament, politicians and institutions in Bulgaria will not be within a single digit number. That's the problem! We haven't learned that lesson in 25 years. So we need to formulate and have a common agreement on several main priorities that are not to be changed according to the situation. Let's not do it again, as we have done in time between Brussels, Moscow, Washington, and let's know that Bulgarian policy is being done in Sofia, in this Chamber, and is being implemented by the institutions in the interests of the Bulgarian people, naturally, taking into account our commitments, which we have as a member of the UN, as a member of the European Union, a member of NATO, but this does not cancel the Bulgarian interest and cannot cancel it. These are the tools through which we can better realise our interest because there was a debate about ten years ago and it was then said that we did not need national interests, our national ideal is NATO and the European Union. No, honourable Members, NATO and the European Union are the tools through which we provide security, the instruments through which we realize those ideals which, unfortunately, in this room in the last 25, have not actually been properly formulated in the last 70 years. When we talk about major problems, they were named by the President's speech, I just want to supplement and add some things. Of course, the main things we can pull out is economics, domestic crime, corruption and foreign policy. These are things that have been affected. However, fellow Members, things are related to each other. What economy will we develop in a country where the demographic disaster is a fact in which every day hundreds of young Bulgarians at working age with education leave the country? The main problem is the demographic problem. Not only because we will be responsible one day before history that this particular generation has allowed with its irresponsible policy in Bulgaria after 25 years the Bulgarians to be a minority, but because if we talk about economics, which investor will come to invest in a country where he does not have the necessary qualified workforce, there is not only the necessary workers, and there are no necessary specialists? That's the big problem. We're talking domestic crime here. Much of it is generated precisely because of the change in these balances in the demographic ratio. At the heart of the country's future is the clear concept of how to solve the country's demographic problems, to stop the national catastrophe. Because there's no vacuum in history. We are talking about measures against illegal immigration, but go back to history and you will see that there is no empty territory. There is no possibility and there is no chance in the growing global population of the planet a country such as Bulgaria, which demographically crashes and emptys out, there is no way this space will remain empty! And if we have a sense of responsibility for future generations, if we want this House to be called a Bulgarian Parliament for the next thousand years and have a normal life, we should think about it. This cannot happen if we do not stimulate working, teaching young people, working and teaching families and stop supporting irresponsible birth rates and marginalized communities. That's the truth, and we can't hide from it, because after 20 years, there's no one to forgive us. But demography is also at the heart of the economy. Without labour, without anyone working, we face the fact that in just a few years there will be no one to pay the pensions of those people who have accumulated the necessary internship and deserve a decent reward in old age. We are talking about economics, but without smashing monopolies and big games in energy, this is not going to happen. Yes, there is a positive balance, i.e. the losses of NEK are reduced, this is an undisputed fact, and this is thanks to the measures that this government took. It's a fact. But the truth is, you need even bolder steps. Without prejudice to or spoiling the unfavorable contracts that have been concluded with Maritsa 1 (Maritsa 1) and Maritsa 3 (Marica 3) we will not achieve the necessary balance. Without redefining the prices of the so-called green energy, electricity prices will be high and we will not solve the problem. Without cutting off the ERPs and putting them under total control, there is no way to solve energy problems. Let's not forget anything else. In recent months, the geopolitical situation in the region has changed, i.e. the conflicts between Turkey, Russia, the Middle East, the opening up of Iran again, giving us opportunities to return as a decisive factor in the Balkans' energy market. If we continue in this direction and at this rate, only after another year, when our last two reactors run out, we will become a country that was a monopoly and a distribution centre in the Balkans, we will become a country that imports electricity. And that's a problem! Now is the time to think and should be thought bravely, not by whose interest we will break and let them not be angry with us! Bulgaria's interests are above everything! It's in the energy. It's domestic crime. Measures are being taken in this direction, but they are insufficient and people are complaining. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I conclude by saying that in this Chamber all Bulgarian politicians should show the public that they are not only politicians, but that they also have the qualities of statesmen. Because a country deals with statesmen, not just politicians. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u13	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Are there any other representatives of other parliamentary groups willing to make a statement? Mr. Tsvetanov on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u14	Madam President, Mr President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! When there is an address of the President of the country in the Bulgarian Parliament, it is a sign of respect of the institution National Assembly. But when the MPs are in plenary, we should also express our respect to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. Whether we like it or not, we must respect the institution President of the Republic of Bulgaria. That is why I am surprised why the colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria are absent from the hall! [[Reply of the National Representative Angel Naydenov.]] What is worrying is that in this set good tone in these political consultations we have all seen that in the last three or four years this may be the only meaningful political debate and consultations held with the President of the country. There was no political party involved in these political consultations that did not dignifiedly appreciate the topics set out on the agenda for discussion. Here we ask ourselves the question: why should we always spoil every good start when it also gives the corresponding positivism to Bulgarian citizens that Bulgarian politicians can unite around national interests? I would like to thank my colleague Krasimir Karakachanov, who had the respective positions of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. Because really when topics related to education are discussed; topics related to energy; topics related to security; topics related to the water sector and the reforms that need to be made and, of course, with the new challenges for our country for I would like to emphasise here that the GERB Parliamentary Group highly appreciates the speech of the President of the Republic and the marking of all these main topics which were part of these political consultations. Because let us not forget that in the last year the Bulgarian Parliament adopted such an important law, and this is the Law on pre-school and school education, because the reform must begin and we all who participate in today's parliament have declared our political will. What is extremely important for energy is the law that has been passed by the MPs in the last 12 months. He gave the opportunity in the last five months of 2015. NEK not to accumulate deficit, but to come up with a plus. This means that we are moving in the right direction, and if we are objective, we can be united, we can be much more effective. Because the Energy Efficiency Programme also responds to what colleague Karakachanov said. With energy efficiency our country, if it achieves at least half of what it has as a standard in Germany, the real Bulgarian citizens will be directly satisfied with what we have done and what has actually come to them. Of course, in the security sector, it is what we did less than a year ago, and we were able to actually fill a legal vacuum that was in the legislation and, of course, we can appreciate that we really need to move forward and we need to really optimize the legislation that meets the needs and what people expect of us. I am convinced that the new measures that will be drawn will, above all, be linked to domestic crime and the limitation of those who believed they could come back from the 1990s. I would also like to thank for all that we are doing, fellow Members of Parliament, because despite the differences, we can also be useful to each other. Because I've always said that a different opinion is part of success. When institutions are united, we can be effective in the so desired judicial reform. I believe that we have very clearly laid down changes in judicial reform with the Strategy, which was adopted January 2015 and has enabled us to reach and unite our efforts to 204 MPs on certain texts, on amendments to the Constitution. Here, this is called political consensus! Here, this is called national priorities that can unite politicians! That is why I would like to inform you, Mr President, that just two days ago we adopted the Law on the Judiciary at first reading, because it is part of the realization of these legislative changes, which were made in the basic Law, this is the Constitution. Dear colleagues, let us not really fix ourselves in the upcoming presidential elections, but fix ourselves in the everyday life that we should have as MPs, and defend the interests and actually contribute to the development of the regions that really expect something to happen to them. It is not normal to divide Bulgaria into Southern Bulgaria and Northern Bulgaria. We need to see our country as a whole and we need to really prepare ourselves for the challenges we have from a very difficult problem that may arise for our country with the ongoing refugee flow. You have seen that we have once again consolidated to make changes to the Defence Act so that the Bulgarian Army can be part of the common efforts of the government and that we can actually protect our national interests. This is what I think is fundamental, Mr. President, in which I assure you that all MPs will continue to work. I am convinced that colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria will also participate in this process. I have always said that the most important thing for a democracy and a guarantee for democratic processes is that the system parties can actually be the generator and the guarantee that our country will not be separated from the most valuable that all politicians have achieved in these years, and that is that we have become part of a strong and united Europe and are part of our Euro-Atlantic presence and membership in this Alliance. It is a guarantee of national security and a guarantee for the future of all our children. When we talk about these topics, we must not forget the small regional problems that do not concern nationally what will happen, but are extremely important for the local population, for the development of their regions, to preserve their livelihood, to preserve what their ancestors have bequeathed to them. Finally to say that yesterday we were in Velingrad. I made meetings with the Initiative Committee of all people who want to preserve and develop tourism and Velingrad to become the European capital of spa tourism. Mr. President, right in the Rhodopes, where people have their livelihoods, there are over 40 thousand inhabitants in Velingrad municipality, there are certain economic interests in finding ore, tungsten, which could endanger the health of all people living there, to kill the hoteliers' business and created new jobs. When we enter interpersonal battles or whether the CBI will leave the government, because I see that they are absent from the plenary, as well as the personal attacks of the last few days, believe me, the local people are not interested in that. Local people care if there are statesmen who can make national policy, whether there are statesmen who will contribute not to ruin everything they have. [[Applause from GERB.]] That is why I want to thank Valeri Simeonov for entering the hall, which means a clear sign that I have to stop because I may already be ten minutes away.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u15	Thirty seconds more.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u16	Mr. Simeonov, I always strive to be very principled in the rules that there are in the forty-third parliament. I'll stop at ten minutes. Finally, I would like to thank the President for this address and the summary that has been made. It contributes to the right tone, not to oppose the political and political elite, but to be together in this process. I also thank the MPs from the forty-third parliament. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u17	Procedure Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u18	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is constitutional and refers to the refusal of the majority in the National Assembly to conduct this dialogue publicly through national media before Bulgarian citizens. [[GERB lines.]] Therefore, the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria left the country, not as a sign of disrespect to the Head of State, but as a reaction to your decision. When the chairman of the largest parliamentary group is trying again under the veil of consent to hide the real problems and contradictions, I therefore react because the issues of an economic nature must be addressed to the Prime Minister. The president can't solve these issues. You have the full power, as you stop or open public procurement, to solve the issues of tourism, energy and the extraction of minerals. This is my reaction, Madam President, because if we do not realize that we are a parliamentary republic and listen to the tronn words, the height of the stands on which we sit will have little meaning! The misunderstanding of the nature of the state structure of Bulgaria and the attempts in some authoritarian manipulative way to resolve the issues will not lead to any agreement and therefore we cannot be part of such false consent! I'm completing my procedure without making a procedural proposal. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] However, the question is so important because it comes to whom Bulgaria is managed and in whose interest it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u19	That's what you should have started with, Mr. Stoilov. The whole time I spent two minutes trying, putting my best into it to figure out what the procedure was. Are there any other MPs? Yes, Mr Karadye on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u20	Mr President, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House! The address of the President of the Republic is due to the meetings held with the parliamentary represented political forces. At these meetings and what we have received today as a summary from the President of the Republic, we see that these meetings are necessary and necessary, in view of the fact that in the National Assembly, the represented parties and coalitions fail to do what is happening with the President of the Republic, namely each of the parliamentary parties and coalitions to present their programme for the respective year, the different programmes and the differences to get a summary in order to make a common national vision and programme for the development of the country. From this point of view, thank you, Mr. President. At the same time, we would also like to add some things that are related to the development of our country's homeland. One of our main topics, Mr. President, on which we have also talked about the discussion, and in the National Assembly we have repeatedly expressed our opinion, are the topics related to education. Last year, we passed the Education Act. The other main topic is related to the livelihood of Bulgarian citizens, the population in the country. From this point of view, we must make sufficient efforts to develop the small, medium, family business. In our opinion, we should focus on family farms and family companies, small farms and small businesses, on the way we can develop mountain and semi-mountain areas, and Northwestern Bulgaria, which we appreciate as less economically developed than other economic regions. Colleagues, if I may, I would like to say a few words about energy efficiency, but in a metaphorical sense. Perhaps we should all make our best efforts to have greater energy efficiency in the activities of the National Assembly in order to adopt those important and necessary regulations and legal frameworks by which the executive power can be useful to citizens. And another marker from our point of view, which we also shared at the meeting, and now before you, dear folk friends, honourable MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u21	We're her friends.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u22	We are obliged to present the subject of security. Globally, European and regionally, violent geopolitical processes are developing. In such a situation, honourable MPs, the country needs a responsible policy, responsible politicians in the name of statehood, for the sake of stability, for the sake of security and for the sake of peace in our homeland! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from SG to DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u23	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. From the other parliamentary groups? Mr. Rosen Petrov on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u24	Dear Mr. President, dear Mrs. Chairman! Following the discussion so far, I remembered that the term "Bulgarian work" in its negative sense arose in the 19th century during the time of a Byzantine Metropolitan called Theodosius Bulgarian, who observed our ancestors fighting before him. Hopefully, with our activities, we'll be able to change that a little bit. Hopefully the combination of Bulgarian work again becomes synonymous with something good, something positive. As was Bulgarian work our power during the time of King Simeon the Great, the work of the brothers Cyril and Methodius, the work of the flyer Assen Yordanov, taught the whole world to fly, the work of Eng. Ivan Nochev created the Eagle module with which the United States of America landed on the moon. I believe that when we talk about national agreement, it's not a cliche, because there can't actually be a veil of consent. If there's a veil of consent, then why the crest? [[He turns around and points at the crest.]] Is he a veil? Is Unity a cliché? No, that's not a cliché. This is the motto left to us by our renaissanceers by those who created the Bulgarian education, from the April High School, from the Revival Teachers; from those who raised the Fatherland during the April Uprising; from those who perished on the fronts during the wars for national unification. By the way, perhaps right during the wars of national union the Bulgarian has given the clearest evidence that he is a tolerant man, that he is a humanist. Let us remind ourselves that the largest military cemetery in the Balkans is in Tutrakan, in the attack of which Bulgarian, German, Turkish and Romanian troops died. Yet, only one year after this fierce battle, which killed over 30,000. Then Bulgaria gave 8 thousand people. Victims in 2 days, the Bulgarian genius erects a military monument of Georgievski cross, under which all died were buried in a common grave and on which he writes in Bulgarian, German, Turkish and Romanian: "To those who knew how to die for their country. So when we're talking about national agreement, let's not think this is a cliche. As Mr. Karakachanov said, and Mr. Tsvetanov, can there be no national agreement on such things as the health of people? Does health divide people into blue and red, into pemben and yellow? No. Should there not be national agreement on such topics as the creation of a strong and combatable army, of strong security services, of strong police, of an independent Bulgarian court, of a strong state prosecution? Not again! Here too, national agreement is needed. Can't we really find the national ideal today? In my opinion and my colleagues from the group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, the national ideal today is much easier, much simpler. We don't have Edirne wire networks ahead of us. We have much easier things to do. Our national ideal today is for all Bulgarian citizens to live just better. The national ideal today is to keep the fridge full. The national ideal today is to have a real civil society. And at the conclusion of my speech, I would like to say that we will continue to support the stability of this governance as a force-inspiring judicial reform, health reform, security sector reforms. I believe that in this difficult international environment, when the whole world sways, Bulgaria needs more than ever national unity on some issues. I will finish again with what I have said that it should not be a cliche and that is behind our backs. Thank you. [[Applause from the centre and from the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u25	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. On behalf of the parliamentary group of ABB Ms. Mariana Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u26	Dear Mr. President, Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We welcome this tradition of political consultations, we believe it is good and we believe that not only the objectives set at the beginning by the President but also the results of them are very important. It is very important for us to seek consent and unity because the unity is realized by the Head of State. Only he can initiate and catalyze unified solutions. That is why we are against any confrontation, especially today, when the executive, legislative power and the Head of State are discussing the agenda of society. For us, the 2030 strategy is very important, which has been discussed and the 17 UN objectives have been proposed, but we also believe that we can look beyond this 2030 Strategy and already think about the Strategy "Bulgaria 2050" because all the challenges facing the world require consideration in the longer-term horizon and the longer-term aspect. It is important that this discussion has also started that Bulgaria already has its vision and its agenda on these issues. It is important to us that the strategic vision, the agenda of society and unity can bear the ideal and what we are looking for. We do not think that only the legacy of the past, but also the update of all issues can give the new ideal and new agenda to society. We share President Plevneliev's high assessment of the pension reform carried out, as it was indeed an effort and an important reform achieved last year. We also share the high value of the package of laws in the sector. In the energy sector, we believe that not only energy efficiency is important, but also to discuss again the important energy projects that the country must pursue and should not give up on them. For society and for us, what has been achieved in the judiciary and anti-corruption legislation is also important. We share the assessment that both doctors and patients are not satisfied with the health reform and there is more to be done. We also share the assessment that education is a key priority that will throw a bridge to quality demographic policy. We therefore welcome that the Head of State will convene a National Security Advisory Council on demographic policy. We would like to remind you that Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin is ready with the updated demographic policy strategy and the Action Plan for 2016. They are deposited with the National Assembly. We expect the debate to start from here as well as from "Dondukov" 1, and we will challenge political consultations with all political forces, starting with GERB, seeking consensus and constructive solutions with BSP, because this is really a national and responsible policy. We should not be looking for cheap political, populist solutions here, but for national and consensus solutions so that we can make quality demographic policy. We were among those who supported the referendum proposed by the Head of State in all three issues, in all three aspects. We regret that the three of them were not put to the vote in a package because they had their philosophical justification to be together, but as you can see, we are going back to these issues It was important for us to hear the assessment of the refugee crisis and that Bulgaria is stable, but it seems a little overrated that we would not have problems. On the contrary, we must be on the lookout. This is why the ABB parliamentary group of the President's consultations asked for an Advisory Council on National Security for both internal and external security and for the refugee crisis. We're sorry that our request wasn't heard. For us it is important the place of Bulgarians abroad and that is why we wanted the President to decide on the possibility that Bulgarians abroad could participate in the political process of Bulgaria. We would like there to be constitutional changes concerning the election of a president so that Bulgarians from abroad can participate. We expected to hear a clearer and firmer position as to whether the President could initiate a referendum and how more difficult to overcome the presidential veto, as it is not right with a simple mechanism and by a simple majority to vote again after the Head of State had objections. Overall, we welcome the consensus dialogue, welcome the search for solutions, welcome the search for unity and reconciliation and thank the President for today's address. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. Are there any other Members of Parliament willing to take part on behalf of their parliamentary groups? Mr. Stanilov, on behalf of the parliamentary group of Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u28	I'll be very brief. Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! I attended the consultations of our political power with Mr. President, and I expected in this speech the President to state the results of these consultations to be seen very clearly by asking for consent, unification, unity and so on, which points we pass each other. Our political power, however large it may be, disagrees with the philosophy of the country's current governance and we should set out the main points at which we disagree or look for where something can be corrected and where something can be done for the good of the Bulgarian people. However, today at this hearing of the President, it, like any other hearing of the President, with a statement of political parties, represents a discussion in which the subjects of the discussion should be equal. In this discussion, you did not compare Parliament and the President and therefore it makes no sense. With your vote the statements of political parties not to be passed on to the National Television, but only to the President, you have simply canceled this discussion, and we are talking in vain here. The media that listens to us there in the lobby, sitting in front of the monitor, will only reflect what is convenient for their owners, editors-in-chiefs and so on and so forth. They cannot be objective. Only those who sent us here, who put us on these banks with their voices, are objective. Therefore, we cannot deprive them of the right to hear directly our speech on national television. I therefore refuse this discussion and, on behalf of the parliamentary group, I say to you, in protest, we will not make a statement on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u29	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Are there colleagues from other parliamentary groups? I won't. Colleagues, thank the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for the opportunity to hear his address after the completion of the political consultations held on his initiative and on his behalf, with the parliamentary political forces represented. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause. President Rosen Plevneliev is leaving the plenary.]] Procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Please put to the vote two procedures for extending the term under the Public Finance Act by another 14 days, i.e. maximum possible, and extension of the term under the Public Sector Internal Audit Act by 7 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u31	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposals made. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The two procedural proposals put to the vote have been adopted. Any other procedures? I won't. Dear Members of Parliament, we will interrupt until 11.00 when the sitting will continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u32	Honourable Members of Parliament, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New requests for the period from 11 to 17 March 2016 from: - MPs Krasen Krastev and Petya Avramova to Desislava Taneva Responses should be made in writing by 25 March In accordance with Written answers for service by: - Prime Minister Boyko Borisov on two questions from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to two questions from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on two issues by the National Representative Miho Mihov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on three issues from the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to two questions from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on a question from the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Antoni Trenchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a request from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the MPs Cornelia Ninova and Dora Yankova; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev. First in the current parliamentary control will respond to Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for the Interior. First will ask his question the people representative Iskren Veselinov about the mass cases of attacks on rolling railways.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u33	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, my question concerns the mass cases of rolling stock attacks. I address you with concern about this problem, which I have repeatedly been known to mostly from the Montenegrin region. We are talking about a series of blockades and attacks on passenger trains along railway line No 71 Montana I'll give you a brief chronology. On December 22, 2015, around 14.20 p.m., a train hits an elderly woman at km 14+345 in the area of the district. On exit from Montana, Berkovitsa direction. The gypsies from the neighborhood gather fast and want to deal with the drivers themselves. After this incident that very same night at the place where he had taken place, dozens of residents of the neighborhood gathered and this illegal occupation of the railway line, despite the presence of law enforcement officers, continued for hours, therefore train No 70201 Berkovitsa "Mezdra" was blocked by the crowd and did not reach the end station, train No 70204 Mezdra From 22 December 2015 to 3 January 2016 on a daily basis passing trains along the square. The Ogossata are subjected to massive attacks consisting of throwing stones at the windows, and the damage that has been done is many, and miraculously no passengers or employees of the BDZ vehicles and locomotive brigades have been injured. I say miraculously because glass was broken, behind which train drivers and passengers stood, and only chance saved them from injury. There are attacks like this every day. Broken glass is over 10. On 22 December 2015 there was a case of attack on train No. 20205 from Sofia to Mezdra at Kurilo Station, where three windows were broken.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u34	Ask the question, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u35	These attacks are mass. They're moving on. There are them in Sofia, Sliven, Kazanlak, Nova Zagora, Pernik, Plovdiv, Gorna Oryahovitsa, Montana, Kurnare, Rosino and so on. We're talking about a mass attack on the BDZ formations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u36	There's a lot more crime than the ones you're enumerating. Ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u37	What measures have been taken so far, Madam Minister, to end these apparently well thought-out and coordinated attacks? Are there any persons who have been prosecuted? How many perpetrators? How many of them will be charged under art. 340 of the penal code? How many perpetrators and how many will be charged on art. 320 Criminals against order and public peace, which are envisaged from three to ten years in prison for organizing and directing criminal groups, specifically between Montana Stations, and for the whole country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u38	Mr. Veselinov, I've given you more detail to develop the matter. Then your line will be one minute. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u39	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veselinov, the questions you are asking are extremely important and disturbing. I can assure you that the staff of the Gendarmerie Department, who are responsible for limiting the offences related to the violation of the railway infrastructure, are taking all necessary measures. They are mainly of a preventive nature, because practice so far shows that the perpetrators of this type of crime are most often minors and preventive measures are essential. The employees organize an information campaign by introducing children in schools to the seriousness of the public danger associated with the attacks. We have strengthened control in critical areas in the railway stations and interstate areas, as well as in the places where the railway road passes in close proximity to districts with predominantly Roma population. I have a detailed reference to the measures. I can give it to you. In 2015, a total of 50 cases of casting hard objects in mobile train formations were registered at the "Gendarmeria" Directorate in the territory of the country. The perpetrators of only five cases have been identified. That's two minors and two minors. No data are available on identified perpetrators for the remaining 45 cases. The work on their establishment is continued by the respective regional management of the Ministry of Interior. I can provide you with a reference to pre-trial proceedings in order to fit in time. Particularly on measures to end the attacks on the rolling stock in the inter-garage of Montana, Berkovitsa. Two working meetings were held on 7 January and 21 January this year of an interdepartmental working group with representatives of the Regional Directorate of National Security. The district governor, his deputies, the mayors of Montana and Berkovitsa, representatives of BDZ, state enterprise NRIC, Holding BDZ and representatives of the public were present. A decision was made in the section around the Roma neighborhood in Montana to introduce a speed limit for trains to 25 km per hour. It's a committee. Until the final resolution of the conflict between the representatives of the Roma community and the BDZ, the movement of trains in the inter-garage of Montana was stopped from 3 to 21 January. On January 21st, it was restored, and within this perimeter, security officers and Montana officials were watching for the protection of the peace. At present, no incidents have been reported on the planned measures on the territory of the ODMVR. The analysis shows that the sections where cases of the casting of hard objects are recorded on railway formations are the same. Part of the solution to the problem concerns the construction of facilities and partitions in these sections. We will step up our action on the measures that we have taken at the moment, periodically, and in the places where incidents have been reported, working with inspectors, parents and teachers. I'll fill in the rest after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u40	Thank you. Mr. Veselinov, please express your attitude in the line for one minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u41	Dear Minister, I am glad that the Ministry of Interior is working in this direction. The truth is, you're the second minister I've dealt with the problem. The first was the Minister of Transport. I was struck when I asked what measures do you take as prevention? This is some quasi-state, instead of law enforcement with all their rigour to respect the population concerned. We can't afford the ghetto to impose their rules and laws on us. We must enforce national rules and laws in these territories. Moreover, all these neighborhoods are built absolutely illegally on the waitout areas of BDZ. In this sense, the wrongdoing gives rise to a new violation, a corresponding danger to transport and to the people who use it. My request is for absolute integrity and serious action in these conflict areas.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Here you are, Madam Secretary. You're not gonna use the back. Mrs. Ninova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u43	Mr. Chairman, I use a procedure to express a disagreement with a written response in the parliamentary control by Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva. My colleague Dora Yankova and I have asked a question about technical problems in the condition of the dam. The Minister returned our answer that our question was sent by competence to the Ministry of Energy, hence the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, from there to securely to the district governor, to the mayor and so on. I am taking this procedure, Mrs. Bachvarova, and because of you, because you are Deputy Prime Minister and Chairman of the Interdepartmental Committee on Disasters and Accidents. What is written here is proof of the carelessness, the transfer of responsibility from one institution to another, and ultimately as a result we see on TV these views that we have seen in Biser, Miziya, Asparuhovo. This answer is proof of your government's frustration and lack of carelessness. You're responsible for this matter. Please take action. I'm addressing the Presidency. I ask the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament to inform the ministers that they should respond, not to stall, I have sent it to this one, that of that one. Finally, people were drowned in the villages of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. At the next Presidency Council, I will raise the question of specificity in the answers to the questions asked. Meanwhile, you write an objection to the President of the National Assembly in order to enter this as a procedure for supplementing or correcting the answers you believe do not give the information you require. On behalf of BSP left Bulgaria Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! The contradictions within the ruling majority are deepening. This leads to political instability within the ruling majority, but this political instability extends to the governance of the entire country. Third month, the ruling majority parties are trying to reach an agreement so that the citizens of Bulgaria who voted for them and those who did not vote know what principles and objectives are being built on today's governance. Because otherwise it is infinitely clear that it is built solely on trades, on business, and now with the reduction of public procurement and their suspension its vital moisture will increasingly decrease. It is obvious that the inability to reach an agreement is part of that projection of non-political interests in the management of the state, non-political interests which are part of that swarming to the right that is happening outside parliament and as creating new projects and formations. Because even those who have supported the parties of today's ruling majority no longer accept its representation. These days it became clear that GERB acknowledged its failure in the presidential institution with a clear statement that this presidential couple will not be supported in the next presidential elections. But somehow in passing, somehow in secret, somehow respecting the Head of State, who during his term of office was pushing the politics of a party fully through the political party GERB. He fought with Oresharski's government, returned the Budget Act to a precedent in our new history, returned the Monopoly Act to protect large retail chains, and today GERB say they will not support him and the vice president for a next term. The report of the European Commission, which is extremely difficult for Bulgaria, which transfers Bulgaria from the second group to the fifth group with the risks of macroeconomic imbalances, which outlines the problems of poverty, of unemployment, of restrictions in access as extremely severe and crisis, which pays particular attention to the problems with demographics and demographic catastrophe, which is developing in Bulgaria during the management of GERB of the second cabinet Borisov. The facts are clear. We have mentioned them many times. Instead of decisive actions against the demographic catastrophe, the government of Boyko Borisov, the majority in any way diverts the legislative initiatives of BSP left Bulgaria aimed at engaged state policy towards the birth and raising of a child. Last week, 10 days ago, our bill was rejected again, which provides for equalisation of child care aid with the minimum wage. At the same time, the debts of the municipalities are growing. The biggest debtors are municipalities, which are already several mandates managed by GERB Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas. The generated debts exceed a billion and 200 million, which will also be paid not only by those living in these municipalities by increasing the tax garbage, water costs and other utility fees, but also by all Bulgarian citizens, because this huge debt accumulates on all Bulgarian citizens. Dear MPs, in health care we are witnessing that the government urgently, quietly and secretly cancels all those decisions which were presented as a reform that hit the Bulgarian citizen directly to receive his constitutional right to receive free and accessible healthcare when he was regular and paid his health insurance contributions. All this is now history, despite the praises for the powerful health reform that has been carried out. In the field of social security. It is obvious that widespread reform changes in social security have led to nothing. On the contrary, last year the costs of the National Insurance Institute were increased by millions. Instead of the effects that were promised in increasing the retirement age, the exact opposite of the increase in the costs of the National Insurance Institute was obtained. The majority of Bulgarian citizens who do not have a job today will have to wait until 68 years to retire. Such type of legislative solutions are no reform at all. Honourable MPs, in this situation the fundamental principles of constitutional functioning of the state are increasingly being replaced, the instability in the ruling coalition brings forward the Prime Minister's sole decisions. He stops public procurement, he stops laws and initiates changes in laws that have just been adopted, but from all this he loses parliamentary democracy, he loses the National Assembly, he loses the most political parties that are involved in the arithmetic majority to support the failed government. And if this line continues, the risks to the sole authority in Bulgaria are increasing in conditions of economic poverty, marginalization, problems in education. The chaos in government and the single decisions that today support camping, and tomorrow they cancel camping, which today launch public procurement, and tomorrow they stop them, they become a threat to the normal functioning of the Republic. Dear MPs, from BSP left Bulgaria we have been a consistent opposition to opposition not as a self-target. We have also supported a number of decisions that we believe are reasonable and in favour of the state. However, we will not allow ourselves to be involved in political combinations whose sole purpose is to strengthen today's unstable state of the ruling majority and the government in particular, because such strengthening is not in favor of Bulgarian citizens, is not in favour of health, it is not in favour of mothers with children, it is not in favour of pensioners, it is not in favour of Bulgaria's demographic perspective, which is becoming more tragic. We will continue to be consistent opposition when decisions are put on right-wing decisions aimed at the interests of the majority of Bulgarian citizens. And no temptations for ministerial posts that are currently being observed in the supporting government, services to be evicted to sit others should not think that they can tempt BSP left Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u46	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Mr. Georgiev, you don't want a statement?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u47	They made a statement today.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u48	Right, yeah! But because he usually talks after you, that's why I asked. We move on to the questions from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov regarding the domestic conditions in the performance of the duties of security at the external border of the Republic of Bulgaria as employees of the Ministry of Interior. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! This question, although asked a month ago, has not lost its actuality and concerns the domestic conditions in the performance of the duties of guarding the external border of the Republic of Bulgaria by officers of the Ministry of Interior. When I asked the question, information about abnormal domestic conditions in the Bulgarian media, under which the employees of the Ministry of Interior, who carry out security activities at both the Bulgarian border and the external border of the European Union, was intensively published in Bulgarian media. At a time when this issue is extremely important both for our national security and for the entire European Union, it is essential for us to understand whether it is really true, what has been shown to these people with broken boots, in summer uniforms, in conditions that are more bordering on concentration camps and what they show for refugees living in Macedonia than for employees of the Bulgarian police. Please answer us whether it really is, or have you done something in the last month to improve these conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u51	Dear Mr. Stoilov, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov! It is undisputed that the working conditions of the employees on the Bulgarian-Turkish border are severe and the provision of heating at their posts, the necessary clothing and reliable transport are of paramount importance. You know that in the last two years we have been facing this challenge and the status of the border line is actually yet being developed. The conditions are being provided, roads are being built to build the partition facility. There is no reason to believe that these conditions could have been provided in advance. It's a fact! In the course of the development of the situation, we also provide the conditions. In 2015, I further requested funding for the needs of uniformed clothing and shoes. It was secured at a rate of 5 million. BGN, seven contracts were concluded, of which the employees of the Directorate-General for Border Police are approximately two million. From 2015 until now, for the needs of the border police, three times clothing and shoes are provided as follows. I'm not going to list where or how many numbers, but I can give you that reference. In this year, there is a procedure for the conclusion of seven framework agreements under the Public Procurement Act and again around 5 million. lv. will be for the necessary clothing and shoes for the employees, especially the Directorate-General of Border Police. I mean, as much as it was last year for everyone, they're now provided only for border police. Regarding the conditions in their posts and the heating provided, I have requested detailed reference and I can assure you that all border police departments of Svilengrad, Elhovo, Bolyarovo, Sredets and Malko Tarnovo at the border police department of the border police department of Elhovo are equipped with tents, wagons and cabins. Some of them are suitable for heating with solid fuel stoves, providing the required amount of firewood. For the rest where electric stoves are used, the required power from diesel generators is provided. It is extremely important to ensure safe and upright transport so that we do not allow any more incidents like this since December 2014. Two public contracts are hereby announced to repair all damaged vehicle equipment and supply of spare parts and supplies. Under the Internal Security Fund at the moment for the removal of employees and detained persons are used mainly the trucks of the Ministry of Defence, which are in good condition. In due course, according to our financial opportunity, the necessary repairs to our current car failure are being carried out daily. We're also expecting donations. In order to ensure conditions along the border, we need to build roads around the partition facility, as well as the forest roads that lead to it. These are different sources of funding, different projects. We're working on it, but the work will be going on this year. You know how difficult the conditions are. We do everything we can where there are already roads to create better conditions. There are public contracts and new vans, so we're on schedule as far as we can go. We are currently looking for an opportunity to provide better conditions for accommodation for posted employees.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u52	Thank you. Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, unfortunately, from what I have heard from you, we are talking about future time and we remain under the impression and perhaps you are confirming that the information that has been submitted is correct and that they are actually living under such conditions as their clothes and their clothing and their uniforms are in such a difficult condition. Everything you say corresponds to what is happening at the Ministry. I am talking about the reform that is taking place. Perhaps the employees are rightly dissatisfied with what is envisaged in these changes. I'm more concerned that you're talking about public procurement in the future, and we're seeing the Prime Minister stop them one after the other lately. I hope this will not happen, and indeed, what you have planned as funds and as a future purchase of equipment through public procurement will not find itself in another scandal. And these people actually stay again and continuing... Come on, it's summertime, they can go in flip-flops, with an excuse for the expression, but it's not normal for those officers who guard the border, and given the complicated situation in Greece and Macedonia and the signals that come from our foreign partners that this flow of immigrants can head to Bulgaria, to expect these people to do adequate work. The request, not only mine, but also your employees, is to take more appropriate measures and your team at the Ministry to take better action in order to improve these conditions and at least to bring these people's clothing into a form that allows them to perform their duties adequately. Because not only mine, but all my fellow Members remain worried, as everything, at the risk of repeating itself, remains at a future uncertain time. Public procurement has become a really dirty word lately, and I believe that you will bring things to an end. Otherwise, things will escalate more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u54	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mrs. Minister, you have the opportunity for a dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u55	Dear Mr. Ivanov, three details that may not have become clear. My assessment is that border officials are doing their job properly. The domestic problems they have create difficulties for them, but they do not create insurmountable obstacles. I mentioned that the summer uniforms were provided for last year. For this year we will provide new teams and winter uniforms, so we work. Public procurement is the only right mechanism by which we can provide the materials. The guaranteeing of border activities is carried out under the Internal Security Fund, which is European and follows certain rules. It is natural for the future, because the situation that was found, the stage from which we started, was practically zero. We began to have our employees there, to activate activities in a situation where there was no way before, and nothing was done. That's the perspective. We're doing everything we can to make sure the measures are taken quickly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u56	We are moving on to a question from the MP Yavor Haytov concerning state administration, licensing and licensing regimes. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, it has been almost one year since you promised us the so-called administrative reform and positive change in service of the business. Then you boasted that the Operational Program "Good management" which is related to improving the functionality of the administration and optimization of the structures is approved by the European Commission and is about to implement electronic management, which will lead to a reduction in the number of administration; transparent procedures and a reduction in the risk of the so-called corruption pressure. My question to you is: what have you done for business, to ease licensing and licensing regimes, and do you know exactly how many of them there are? I'm asking you to answer exactly, not around. How long do these procedures take? A year ago, you said from this tribune, and I quote precisely: "Today there are some 900 licensing regimes, and in 2012 a Plan for reducing the regulatory burden of business, which contains 247 measures, has been adopted. There is a list of measures to be taken and all of them are related to legislative proposals that are currently being developed. What of these measures have been implemented and implemented, how many and which licensing and licensing regimes have been reduced to ease the functioning of the Bulgarian business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u58	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u59	Dear Mr. Stoilov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, during the last year and during the period you quoted from my previous statement, I can assure you that efforts to seek solutions to reduce the administrative regulatory burden for business have not stopped. As you know, the administrative system is the most wide-ranging system in the country, and any arbitrary change of it poses a risk of destabilizing the entire system. We therefore need a longer period of preparation for the necessary measures. What have we done? The first and, in my opinion, an extremely important solution is the regulatory regulation of the assessment of the impact of legislation. It contributes to reducing the dynamics of regulations, which is among the main expectations of business, i.e. in order to establish a lasting regulatory framework. Without such a framework, whatever we do in the field of administrative service will be linked to a dynamic that creates problems. The scope of impact assessments in the version that was voted on two days ago at first reading in Parliament concerns the laws, codes and acts of the Council of Ministers. I hope that Parliament's legislative acts will be adopted very soon, taking into account the meaning of this decision. In August 2015, a working group was established to analyse the administrative procedures related to the realization of investment intentions and the reasons for the delay in providing services. An analysis was carried out and, on its basis, the development of measures and procedures relating to the realization of investment intentions and delays in the provision of services is being prepared. The three sets of measures to reduce the administrative regulatory burden adopted in 2014 were discussed, which contained a total of 138 measures, with their implementation report showing that they have been implemented at 44% so far. The decision was adopted in 2014, but it refers to a longer period. Unfulfilled measures from these packages, as well as measures to improve the business environment in view of Bulgaria's performance in the World Bank's business-making report, have been updated in view of the deadlines, the institutions responsible for their implementation. Following a meeting with the World Bank, employers' and industry organisations, ministries and agencies were made proposals for a total of 50 new measures to change government policy and improve investment climate. They are to be tabled for discussion by the Council of Ministers next month, then they will proceed to their implementation within the new deadlines. In October 2015, in practice, at the end of 2015, the implementation of the project "Investing investment policy in Bulgaria" was completed. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] May I continue? It's all about the additions. Bills were developed to amend and supplement 49 existing laws, which provide for the relief of administrative regulation. Proposals have been made for dropping out through the unification of administrative proceedings or transformation into internal administrative services of 242 and 158 existing regimes have to be alleviated according to the proposal. A package of billings will be submitted if you pay attention to 49 are defined. The most important project is being prepared at the moment - the Transformation Model of Administrative Service - which for the first time makes a comprehensive horizontal, functional analysis of the administration - something that has not been done so far. It will determine the necessary changes in the overall system and their logistics. In practice, the result of this project will give us the image of the overall administrative reform. So far, the measures that have been taken have only been partial and, in my opinion, have therefore not been attractive enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. I gave you the opportunity to provide all the detailed information. You probably won't have to answer Mr. Haytov's line that much later. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also for providing the opportunity for the Deputy Prime Minister to respond fully and comprehensively to this question, because it is extremely important to us. In fact, we have something similar, and this is that we are professing a Christian-democratic policy. This is also our ideology of the people's representatives from the People's Union. We want and want the Bulgarian business to work in clear rules, with clear conditions and, if possible, the state to be less regulator of everything the Bulgarian citizens do who want to do business. In the face of the government, they must see assistance and support rather than an authority which, in one way or another, restricts it and does not enable it to develop its business initiatives. Whatever we talk about, whatever differences we have, the truth is that if we do not create an environment, an environment in which Bulgarian businessmen work peacefully, have the opportunity to profit from their activities and, of course, to receive taxes, something from which we receive our salaries, all our attempts to make policy are in vain. So, as I stated in my question, one year ago, you and I, from this tribune, have had this debate. I will wait patiently and these 50 new measures that are identified, which you will consider under your leadership in April, and I am convinced that step by step will lead to the relief of the business environment in our country, because, believe me, at this time it is not good. The Bulgarian business is gasping, weak, and these are difficulties that reflect entirely on the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u62	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. There's no need for a douche. We move on to the next issue by the MP Willy Lilkov, concerning an operation of the Ministry of Interior for opening of a workshop for illegal production of fuels in the town of Vili Lilkov. It's a flyer. You have the floor to put and motivate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, my question is about an operation of the Ministry of Interior to open a workshop for illegal production of fuels in the city. It's a flyer. On 4 December 2015, an action was carried out by the Ministry of Interior authorities to open a plant for illegal production of fuels in the city. It's a flyer. According to information that has been confirmed by the prosecution, I quote: "After the action, there is no one detained by the participants in the manufacturing activity of the illegal workshop in question, as the workers have run away. I am astonished at the fact that there is not a single person detained at the crime scene in a planned and carried out operation, which is likely to make it difficult for the work of clarifying the case and misleading offenders of criminal liability. In this regard, I ask the following question: how and under what circumstances did it come to the point that, in the presence of such a committed law enforcement and special authorities, all involved in illegal proceedings have fled the scene? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u64	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u65	Dear Mr. Stoilov, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Lilkov! Checking the site in the city. Airport was made on the basis of a confirmed proposal with a SANS plan. The employees of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Lovech were involved as a group was formed for joint activities. This is a practice that is used. For the case you are referring to, pre-trial proceedings have been initiated by the ODMHR.. Lovech under the supervision of the District Prosecutor's Office for Crime art. 359d, para. 2 of the Penal Code. The case is currently under investigation. In accordance with art. 198, para. 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the materials of the investigation cannot be disclosed without the permission of the prosecutor. I'm familiar with the information and all subsequent moves to identify empathetic persons. Unfortunately, when I have the opportunity, this information will be provided to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u66	Mr. Lilkov, you can make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u67	Thank you. I understand that under the conditions of ongoing proceedings, such information cannot be provided, but agree, Madam Minister, that to observe for months or weeks a place where a crime is committed, to plan authorities of the prosecution, the Ministry of Interior and the DANS, and to end it in such a way, means that either unprofessionally all this has been carried out, or someone in the service of the people who committed the crime, has made it impossible for anyone at the crime scene to turn out to be anyone. I, if I ask this question, ask it with concern about the image of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. What does all this look like in the eyes of our constituents and in the eyes of the Bulgarian people? If you are in your right not to really answer me at the moment, as the situation is such, then at least take the commitment that the culprits, in order to come to this comic, on the one hand, paradoxical and humiliating situation for the Ministry of Interior and for the DANS, must be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u68	Thank you. He looked pretty good on TV. Do you have an asshole, Madam Secretary? No. We move on to the last question by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov about the level of professional stress in the system of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The past year has been significant for the Ministry of Interior and the resulting need to reform the ministry. The need to implement concrete reforms is dictated above all by several factors, the main factors of which are: firstly, impaired trust by civil society in the system; secondly, an acute need to optimize operational processes and increase the efficiency of the internal security and public order system; thirdly, minimizing professional stress and improving internal motivational mechanisms; fourthly, ensuring higher civil and local stability; fifthly, increased responsibilities in the security sector, in view of our membership in the European Union; sixthly, the implementation of a reform that is supported by a long-term horizon of existence, and a number of others. The main focus of the reform of the Ministry of Interior falls on the most important resource, namely employees. Unbreakable with this point remains the problem around the level of professional stress among the employees in the Ministry of Interior system. According to various studies, one of which at the Institute of Psychology at the Ministry of Interior, the level of professional stress among employees, especially in border territories, is equivalent to that characteristic of martial law. In view of all that has been said so far, Deputy Prime Minister, my question to you is as follows: what specific measures do you intend to take towards improving the working conditions and working environment for employees, respectively, to reduce the unusually high level of professional stress? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u70	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Madam Minister, your answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u71	Dear Mr. Stoilov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Belemezov, I can assure you that the main mission that we want to carry out at the moment with the proposal of the Draft Amendment to the Ministry of Interior Act is the implementation of a reform that will lead to a financial stabilisation of the system, not only for its purpose, but in order to ensure a better resource, more resources, with which we can plan and take measures to improve the working conditions of the employees. This is the focus of our efforts and this is the point of all the measures we propose. A few details. In the study you mentioned, after a check I did, there remain some questions, because the Institute of Psychology has not conducted a comprehensive psychological study to measure the levels of working risk among the employees of the Ministry of Interior over the past four years. In 2015, the Institute realized on requests from the heads of various structures three organizational-diagnostic researches involving aspects of working stress, but it was not about overall such research. Last year, a study was carried out that should not draw conclusions about the whole system because it was done in connection with the incident in which two employees were killed and five were injured, returning from a business trip at the southern border. At that time, the management of the Border Police (C police) has taken the necessary measures to deal with working stress, following the recommendations in the study, that is, it focuses on a separate case. My personal belief is that you should constantly monitor the level of stress, have constant research, because only one separate study, I say it from my personal and previous professional experience, does not give a complete picture. The trend that is being monitored is important. Another question is that the standards are different here, because in itself the profession is destined to carry such stress and therefore are all the additional conditions that are provided to employees. On the measures taken to improve employee working conditions. At the moment, I assure you that we are using all the options on our budget, which are intended for capital expenditure and maintenance, all European funds. I'm not going to list all the programs we get funds from, but I'm going to list what we expect to get in a few directions. On the basis of the transport insurance, there are procedures to purchase passenger cars worth 32 million. 400,000. BGN, to purchase 14 vans for a total of 1 million. 190,000. BGN, for 10 specialized cars for the transport of service animals - dogs, total value of 350 thousand. BGN, to purchase 50 motorcycles for a total of 1 million. BGN, to purchase 2 mobile command centers for a total of 500 thousand, to buy 2 specialized cars for the transport of detained persons... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] With regard to the provision of staff: all estimates and organizations for the conclusion of seven framework agreements, under the Public Procurement Act, and under the renovation and modernisation of the building fund of the Ministry under the Programme "Regions in growth", Priority Axis 1 and Priority Axis 2, we have included 73 administrative buildings of the structures of the Ministry of Interior throughout the country, and under the program of the National Trust Fund under the First Axis, seven buildings are included and approved, and two of them are in the implementation of the activities at the moment. This is, I think, a fairly broad program that will lead to improved working conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u72	Here you are, Mr. Belemezov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u73	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. You have affected the financial problems in the Ministry, which lead, of course, to various moods among the employees in the system. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the parliamentary group of the ABB and the Political Party ABB has always been in a very open dialogue on this topic, because in order to ensure maximum security for the Bulgarian public and the Republic of Bulgaria, being a member of the European Union, we must have an adequate security system that must be built on the basis of new technologies, based on financial security, so that we can keep up with the new times, and not work with means and methods that are characteristic of a very distant period back in the years. You answered a previous MP's question that last year, about the pleasure in the Ministry of Interior, a little over 5 million were provided for the provision of uniforms among the employees. I would like to remind again here that this was an initiative of the ABB Parliamentary Group last year and in connection with talks that we had in the Ministry. By putting the problem at different levels, including as a matter of the parliamentary tribune to you personally, we were able to immediately after that, for which we thank once again, the Ministry to react and provide the necessary financial resources to secure the so-called uniforms of the employees in the system. However, for me is more important the other, the complex factor, as much of the Ministry's budget in over 90-95% goes for the employees themselves, I think this is the main, most important capital of the Ministry and we need to work much more adequately and preventively in this direction. Regarding the level of professional stress, I would like to point out that it is largely due not because of the surrounding environment around the Ministry and about the functionality of the employees, rather because of the system itself. These are the responses of various representatives of the Directorates we have spoken to. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I would also like to point out, which concludes, Mr President, that the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act of 2014, the moment we discuss, are the seventh amendment in turn. This also creates a build-up of mistrust of the system itself and we are faced with the paradox of the system, which must generate security in the Bulgarian public, turns out to be one of the most unstable because of the fact that year-round, daily in a period of several times we change the law on the Ministry of Interior and the sub-regulation acts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u74	Thank you. It's clear. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u75	Yes, Mr. Belemezov, you're right that the main risk comes from the general insecure environment. I would like to mention for you a good example the results of DGBOP at the time when it was moved to another service are an extremely good illustration compared to the results that DGBOP is currently giving, so how restructuring can affect work. At the moment, I hope that you have paid attention to the fact that DGBOP is working extremely intensively and extremely efficiently. The operations that take place daily, several a day, have impressive results, and the consequences of these results are yet to be seen, but this is the best example of how political decisions can affect the activities of a police service in both positive and negative, unfortunately, effect. For the results of the Ministry of Interior really observe what the DGBOP has been doing the last few days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova, for your participation in the parliamentary control. We are now moving on to the questions to which Meglena Kuneva will answer? Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science. A question will be asked by the national representative Borislav Iglev about a problem with the conduct of classes at the Technical University. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, we have learned from the media that the management of one of the faculties at the Technical University of Sofia threatened that the classes stopped. It's about one of the most wanted faculties in recent years, the one in computer systems and management. More than 1,600 students are trained in it. The faculty management has issued an order with which all lecturers who have more than 600 hours of study must cease overtime. The university's leadership has come up with a counter-order that obliges all teachers to be in the classrooms. It is clear that the reason is internal university. But I am very worried and concerned about the 1600 Bulgarian students whose training is in question. This is the faculty that prepares most of the future IT specialists of Bulgaria. In this regard, I ask you to answer: has the Ministry of Education and Science appointed a check in relation to this case and what has it shown? Will measures be taken, even legal changes to prevent this or other similar case from stopping the normal training of Bulgarian students? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u78	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. You have the floor to answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Iglev! The calm atmosphere in educational institutions is very important for each university. This is a condition without which normal classes cannot be held. For this reason, of course, any problem that arises in higher schools and threatens the training of learners should not be underestimated. Therefore, I thank you for the question which gives me the opportunity, along with the specifics, to explain once again the policy that we are conducting in the field of higher education. First of all, on the specific issue of a problem with the conduct of classes at the Faculty of Computer Systems and Management of the Technical University, we did the following. First, we checked with the Ministry of Education and Science no signals and complaints have been received from students and lecturers from the Faculty of Computer Systems and Management of the Technical University of Sofia for uneducated or suspended classes and exercises. So what you have read in the media has in no way been confirmed through concrete actions by students and lecturers. Second, on the occasion of your question by letter of 1 March 2016, the Rector of the Higher School Prof. Mihov informed us that the study process at the university has never been suspended and there are no grounds for termination of the students' training. With regard to relations between the Faculty of Computer Systems and Management and the University's management, I could say the following. The dispute between the Rector's Guide and the Faculty is on two lines. The appointment of additional number of lecturers and the way the subsidy is allocated by the state. Undoubtedly, the best solution to any problem can be reached when both sides express their willingness and willingness to cooperate and mutual compromises. In this regard, although I stress I have great respect for the academic autonomy that you voted in Parliament, the Ministry of Education and Science still held meetings with the university's and faculty's managements, trying to be a mediator. At this meeting were analyzed the causes of the problems and opportunities to solve them. Both parties made a short-term commitment to take the necessary steps to normalise the working atmosphere. I would like to point out the basic understanding of the Ministry of Education and Science that higher education schools must be stimulated, which develop professional directions typical of them based on the results of the rating system of higher schools, as well as the priority professional courses... in response to objectively emerging changes in the labour market. This policy finds a particularly strong manifestation in the recent amendments to the Law on Higher Education, published on 1 March 2016 by introducing and prioritizing specific professional directions, as well as in connection with funding and determining the adoption of students and PhD students under new terms and conditions, taking into account the quality of the students' training and realization. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I think what I'm trying to say is very clear. Where, as this faculty is, there are good achievements, these good achievements must be stimulated. In conclusion, if we really want to change education, make it modern and meet modern needs, we need to be bolder. This is, of course, true of the ministry, which I run, for the management of higher schools, when we talk about higher education. There is no question that information technology should develop at an accelerated pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u80	Thank you. Mr. Iglev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u81	Mr. Chairman, Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva! I don't know why the media is alarming us about protests at the Technical University when there's nothing going on at the Ministry of Education and Science? The case is still in existence and will continue until the Ministry of Education and Science takes measures. The Technical University receives a state subsidy. Unemployment among the footage coming out of the Technical University of the Faculty is under 1%. If he gets a state subsidy, I think it's normal for the Ministry of Education and Science to take into account the case. The Faculty of Computer Systems and Management is also useful for the economy. In recent years, computer specialists have been among the most sought after in the labour market. In this regard, it is impossible for the Ministry of Education and Science and, in particular, you as a minister not to take measures to stop the protests. Then stop running in the media when there's nothing going on with the Ministry of Education and Science. What exactly are you going to do about this case then? Who exactly did you meet with the Dean, the Rector, the students if no signals were received? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u82	You have the floor for the doppelganger, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u83	Mr. Igov, I believe that from this platform you urged the students and the department's leadership to address the Ministry of Education and Science. If they listen to you, I can make an appointment with whoever you want. For our part, a meeting provoked by us was made with the university and faculty guides, as I just told you. Otherwise, for these topics that you said this computer specialty is very important and we give a subsidy, in fact this is the Ministry's answer that we stimulate a faculty that performs excellently. In fact, 1200 students are in regular form of training in the specialty of the professional department of Communication and Computer Engineering, for which the university is leading in the rating system. The rating system is once again supported by the Ministry of Education and Science. The interest in teaching in the faculty is great and the academic management of the university is concerned with attention and care for its provision. In 2015, a decision of the Academic Council of the Technical University announced 15 contests for assistants for the needs of the faculty, but only five seats were used, Mr. Igov. Only five seats! In February, a habilitated professor was transferred from another university, and at the end of March 2016 there is a competition for four new assistants in the faculty. These are things you're probably following. During the last two years in order to stimulate faculty teachers, it has been decided to pay 2.5 times higher than in other faculties. As a result, the average annual salary in the faculty is BGN 22 271. at university average 14 000 BGN, i.e. another clear indicator of the value of their efforts. During the same period for the academic year 2015, the teaching burden of the faculty for hours outside the norm is 2.87 and without hours outside the norm is 2.07, which places it in third and sixth place of workload among the departments of the Technical University respectively. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] As a new measure to optimize management in higher schools, I would like to quote to you the specific text of art. 90, para. 2 and 5 of the Higher Education Act, according to which the distribution of the budget for the Higher School will be validated annually by the Academic Council on Main Units and Branches and should be published on the website of the Higher School. However, let us also make it possible for the Ministry of Education and Science and, on your part, to find a way to work together with the faculty together with the academic leadership, to be able to put peace and agreement in this so important educational institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u84	Thank you. The way you're leading it? I don't see what better way you're looking at it, but here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u85	Mr. Chairman, please, when they call me Mr. Igov, a lot of voters have voted for me, my last name is Mr. Iglev, not Mr. Igov. I hope the answer isn't written down in Mr. Igov. My last name is Mr. Iglev. [[Single applause from the BBC.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u86	Yes, thank you, I accept your note. I wasn't sure if it was an inaccurate pronunciation, so accept this apology, Mr. Iglev, if I didn't pay attention. There's no intention. That concludes Mr. Iglev's question to Mrs. Kuneva. She will answer a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev about a lasting trend of frustration of employers from the quality of Bulgarian education. You have the floor to present the question, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u87	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues! According to a survey by the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, there is still a constant trend for dissatisfaction of employers with the quality of Bulgarian education. I don't think that would surprise any of you. Many respondents believe that the main gaps in young people's education are professional skills and basic economic knowledge. Young people lack more teamwork skills, important practical knowledge. They make it difficult to connect theoretical training and its practical application. In practice, this means that there are footage completely unprepared for business. What is your opinion on the Court's survey on the quality of education and the measures proposed by its members? What measures have you identified to deal with the contrast between measures and actions taken? What will the Ministry of Education and Science do to increase the opportunities for internship and apprentices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u88	Thank you. Madam Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u89	Dear Mr. Binev, I will start with the more general to go to the more specific. Of course, the efforts continue and within days we will be provided with a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training. Any research, including what you have quoted, is welcome and are a basis on which the groups work on amendments to the Law. The main goal is business to participate very actively in vocational education. We are open, of course, to any experience.. both Bulgarian and foreign, especially in cooperation with the business. We will also organize special meetings with the business to discuss the most working solutions. Therefore, we are not in a hurry to present to you the Members of the National Assembly, the amendments and additions of the Law. We'll do it after we discuss it with the business. Now the most significant steps so far. In the field of higher education. According to the developed by the Ministry of Education and adopted by the National Assembly, the latest amendments to the Law on Higher Education were adopted. In the process of preparation is the relevant regulatory framework which will regulate the new model for determining the admission of students and PhD students to higher schools based on the realization of graduates and the needs of the labour market. The Ministry of Education and Science under no circumstances underestimates the acquisition of practical experience during the training in higher schools. In this regard, I would like to mention the extremely successful programme, a project of the Ministry of Education and Education.................................................................................. student practices. A new similar project has already been developed under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" implemented by the Ministry of Education, which foresees for a period of two years another 46 thousand to be realized. student practices. Secondly, I would like to draw an urgent attention to vocational training. A key measure in the Strategy for the Development of Vocational Education and Training is the provision of an opportunity to organise vocational training through work, so-called "Dual Training." For its implementation were established study plans developed precisely in cooperation with the business. In the direction of the active inclusion of social partners in the system of vocational training and education, the Ministry of Education is working on several projects and programs to conduct practical training in a real working environment. I'm going to mention them to you now: - project "Domino" which is implemented with Swiss support to introduce elements of dual education in the Bulgarian education system; - pilot Austrian project "Dual training in Bulgaria" which is implemented with the support of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce; - Project "Learning practices" under Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" with more than 5 thousand included. Employers and successfully conducted practices over 46 thousand. students. In 2015 a school year was introduced through work on seven professions with 10 majors and five professional high schools. A larger number of professions and schools will be included, where a dual form of training will take place. Upon validation of the state plan, the Ministry of Education shall take into account the views of the regional structures of employers submitted to the Employment Committees of the Regional Development Councils. In the last three years, the established state-acceptance plan in vocational schools has had a higher number of classes than the number of classes in vocational schools. Of course, there is much more to be done, and I hope that, with the help of a broad public discussion, more and more people will enter into a specific dialogue with the Ministry of Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. I give the floor to the MP Slavi Binev for a reply. Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, the measures taken so far appear to have given no result at all. This comes out of the analysis of the test carried out by the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Therefore, new, more interesting, more intriguing ways should be sought. Everyone knows that sometimes a gram of practice equals a lot of weight theory. After all, academic training is a guarantee of a good start, but there is no guarantee of a good finish! It is for this reason that the relationship must be found by people who have some academic training to see what its application is. These are the so-called business incubators when people start, they not only get the way in which to carry out some business activity if they do any activity at all, but they also get the encouragement from people who have acquired purely crafts experience, because in each job there is sometimes a great deal of craftsmanship. You need to look for more modern ways in which to actually meet the requirements of business at the moment. It is entirely reasonable for them to be dissatisfied by the fact that the people coming out of the student benches or the university desks are not prepared to flow into their ranks, fill them out and make them even stronger. You have to really look for a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u92	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Right on the back, Mrs. Kuneva? No, you're quitting. I thank Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science. Take care! To a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev will answer Tomislav Donchev - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy. Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the National Palace of Culture is in a difficult financial situation. I have spoken with many of our colleagues on this issue, which is due to the actions of this management and, in particular, to the current director. There are accumulated obligations for electricity of almost half a million BGN and there is a danger of legal proceedings against NDK. Auditors from the Ministry of Finance were sent to the institution to carry out the necessary verification. Doesn't this measure confirm the suspicions of a financial collapse of the NPC? This happens at a time when preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union is under way in 2018. The National Palace of Culture will play an important role during the Presidency, as it will be one of the main buildings in which most meetings and forums will be held. Such problems complicate the preparatory process and cast a shameful stain on the reputation of the cultural institution. What is the current financial situation of the NPC? Does the cultural institution have financial problems and what measures will be taken to resolve them? What punishment will be imposed on guilty persons? Is it true that when it's taken over by the new director, the NDK has a few million in the cash register, there are several million in accounts, and at the moment there are only obligations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u94	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mr. Donchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, after your question, I asked the National Palace of Culture, whose principal I am, about the findings, and the following information was provided to me. The company does not have any outstanding obligations for supplied and invoiced electricity and other financial difficulties. On the contrary, in just one year, the current management of the Palace has been able to negotiate electricity at free prices, i.e. by going out on the free market, thereby significantly reducing the annual costs of this type of supply. In the event of an amount paid in 2015 of 3 million. 133,000. lv. For electricity at regulated prices, the expected annual savings after the release of the free market will be at least 1 million. $250,000. lv. The company constantly maintains on its bank accounts cash stocks that are quite sufficient for timely payment to suppliers, workers, employees, NRA and NHIF. In the past 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The National Palace of Culture has made at its own expense significant additional costs related to the maintenance of the building fund, cultural events, as well as meeting the criteria for holding all events or a large part of them related to the Presidency by Bulgaria of the European Union, including: - digital filming and drawing up a technical passport of the main building; - Energy efficiency survey and certification of the main building of the National Palace of Culture; - design and implementation of the site of the Book Centre in the National Palace of Culture; - design and implementation of the site - delivery and installation of stage mechanics, as well as many others. In addition, at the very beginning of the current year 2016, the company has conducted a procedure and has awarded the execution of a public procurement contract with the subject of the project and the preparation of an ideal architectural project for the reconstruction and adaptation of the main building of the National Palace of Culture, with generalized preliminary quantitative-value accounts, which is directly related to the Presidency. In addition, I would like to assure you that especially for the reconstruction of the National Palace of Culture for the purposes of the Presidency I am following things very closely and I will not allow this serious political commitment and challenge for Bulgaria that the building fund will not be in excellent condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u96	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Binev, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u97	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I have crossed your fingers to really do this because it will present Bulgaria as a whole and not just the director of the National Palace of Culture or your ministry. These questions I ask you are caused by my concern that everything will go well. You know that there was a report that revolved around the National Assembly precisely because of violations in the National Palace of Culture. We will have to compare the data from this report, which you cannot not be aware of, and with what you said, because there are serious discrepancies, in the sense that there may be no obligations at the moment, but this is probably based on additional money transferred to the NDK. I can't say the same thing, but at some point there was the possibility that electricity obligations would not be paid, including problems with paying people's salaries. This practically leads me to believe that some additional funds are already being allocated to cover these over-arrangements that were apparently assigned. However, this must be seen and done pό special audit to prove what is true. The more important thing is something else. Indeed, in the previous report, which I have read, I have tried here synthetically to convey the problems that interest me, it seems that management seems rather irresponsible. What are not the noises in the National Assembly, including that perhaps at some point this director will be redirected to another principal place, whether on television or elsewhere. In the old days, they really rerouted people who screwed up in some service, promoted them so that they could drop their specific duties slightly. I believe that in no way should the specific obligations of the NDK and the Presidency be confused at present. There is no way to rely on additional funding to fill in the holes that have been made from the past without auditing and appropriate punishment for the people who have allowed this waste. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u98	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Right on the back of the dot, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u99	Dear Mr. Binev, a few details. The Executive Director assured me that all rumors relating to unpaid electricity bills were solely due to the procedure for switching from the regulated free market. I've been assured in this direction. As for all the additional activities the NPC carries out, including additional expenses it incurs at the moment related to the Presidency, are at the expense of the Company's revenue. In view of the functions of the Palace during the Presidency, when the entire Palace is likely to be closed for a long time, it will receive funding, but this is under a lease agreement with the Council of Ministers, and this is the right and proper way. Finally, let me make it clear that until now the Ministry of Finance has not sent an audit team to the NDK. However, a distinction must be made between financial inspectors and an audit team. An audit team hasn't been sent. To date, there are registered auditors, approved by the sole owner of capital, who carry out a verification and validation of the Annual Financial Statement. As for checks by the Office of State Financial Inspection, I would like to assure you that such control can and will be done whenever there is a serious enough signal for any violations. Together with the finance minister, we have not even shown a gram of compromise when there is a sufficiently sound or serious signal in any public institution, to deal with it. As for all reports, as a Member of the National Assembly, when there are completed reports, you have access to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u100	Thanks to Mr. Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, for participating in today's parliamentary control. One question will be answered by Mr Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy. The issue is from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov on the results of criminalization of the concealment of insurance contributions. Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister! My question concerns the criminalisation of the concealment of insurance contributions, what was adopted in practice as a change in the Penal Code at the end of In 2014, and, which changed, entered in early 2015. I am interested in any concrete results, since this measure was expected to contribute to the larger amounts of social security contributions collected, including to cross over various abuses, for which there were assurances from the importers at the time? I think this measure has also been supported by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, that it will deliver such results. We then warned that in the way it is written in the Penal Code, it appears to be largely discriminatory in terms of business, because, at least for me as a lawyer, in an unacceptable way, an unwarranted presumption is introduced when an employee of an employer is involved in such a concealment of insurance contributions, this employee, no matter what his empathy for the action, is involved as an instigator, as an aider and so on, all hypotheses under art. 20 of the Penal Code, he is exempt from criminal liability, yet I say, regardless of the degree of public danger of his act, whether he was involved in a relationship with that employer or put any pressure on him. The discrimination attitude in any case does not have a good impact on the climate in an enterprise.. There is a relationship of suspicion between employers and employees, almost not to mention that it could be abused as a mechanism for pressure on employers in a clear conflict between employer and employee. This can be very easy to use the employer in question to be misled and then to send an alert against him and to prosecute him. Interesting is the effect of this measure. Mr. Minister, my question is: for the operation of this measure for about a year, how many business representatives have started pre-trial and/or legal proceedings to conceal insurance contributions? What was the number of found guilty and convicted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u102	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Kalfin, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, the question you ask is in principle. The information I am about to provide you now, I have received from the National Revenue Agency, as it is the institution responsible for the collection of both tax and social security contributions. That's what I'm saying in the future. Of course, my colleagues provided me with the information, but they have it in its full form. Following the criminalisation of the concealment of compulsory insurance contributions, which became a fact from the beginning of 2015, with art. 255b of the Penal Code, I would like to remind you that the penalties that may be followed are for concealing large-scale social contributions, which is estimated from 3 to 12 thousand. BGN, the person is punished with imprisonment up to 5 years and with a fine of up to 2000 BGN. In the case of amounts in particularly large amounts, over 12 thousand. BGN, the penalty is imprisonment from two to eight years and confiscation of part or all of the property of the guilty. Those are the penalties for withholding contributions. I would like to tell you that, and previously, in so far as tax evasion has been criminalised, indirect and the evasion of contributions is also criminalised, since when the actual amount of salary is not displayed or when a person works without a contract, it is also tax evasion. Insurance rights by all persons in employment, service and other relationships under the Social Security Code shall be enjoyed not only when social security contributions have been paid, but also where they are due but not paid. In these cases, an example worker works, but his employer does not pay insurance contributions, the worker reserves the right to social benefits. Health and pension, in fact it is borne either by the budget or by those who are regular paying agents. And that's why the main motive was to make a commitment to those who guiltyly withheld the payment of taxes. Adopting this text has two effects. One of them has been precautionary to a large extent in employers, after its adoption, there is a change in behaviour. The other one's a criminal. Regarding the preventive effect in 2015, the Ministry of Finance and the National Revenue Agency collected 6 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which is nearly 500 million more than 2014. The proceeds of fines, penalties and penalty interest on the budgets of the state social security and the National Health Insurance Fund for 2015 are 35 million, where a growth of 26% has been reported compared to the previous year. We see that the first preventative effect leads to greater collection than what is envisaged. According to the data in the single electronic register for notification to the Prosecutor's Office, so far the revenue authorities have found evidence of crimes committed under the newly created art. 255b in seven cases, all sent to the competent authorities. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. With regard to whether workers should also be punished for withholding contributions, I would like to remind you that these contributions are paid by the employer in a business way. Very often the worker, because he does not take any action to contribute his contributions unless he is self-employed, of course, that is entirely the employer's responsibility. There can be no pressure from the worker to the employer if the employer is correct and pays all due contributions to the wage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u104	Thank you, Mr. Kalfin. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I have heard some interesting things in your response. First of all, if I understand you correctly, only seven cases have been submitted under the specific subparagraph, as adopted, and, as I understand it, they are still being investigated. In other words, there is no clear result whether there are convicted and found guilty persons, or there is none, but even hypothetically all seven are found guilty, it seems to me a very weak result to expectations. At the same time, these data that you have submitted for a higher collection of public claims on social security contributions in particular, I think you will agree with me that this is hardly due to this provision alone. I hope that for the most part this is due to the additional efforts of the revenue agencies, the NRA and so on, and hope for the better business environment in the country and the economic growth that is being realised, as this means, of course, automatic more contributions. I'd like to draw your attention to something else essential. It seems to me that I would still stress this excess of the provision in relation to the expected result, it seems quite incorrect the discriminatory treatment between an employer and an employee and the exclusion of the possibility of investigating at all whether he was involved as an instigator, whether in any other quality, to the specific concealment of social security contributions. What you have pointed out is true, but there are other hypotheses. For example, we know that very often at the insistence of employees, especially in poorer settlements in the country, they prefer to receive the money by hand at the moment than to be provided with higher amounts. It is often at their initiative that the employer, given the difficult economic situation and currently in the country, is still, but especially years ago, to make such compromises. I am not saying that they are correct, but rather both sides have a certain responsibility and it is good that everyone has the responsibility that the investigation would find in such a case. As recorded now, al. 5 is excluded at all the possibility of the instigator being sanctioned. Those are my lines. I think that this measure was rather excessive, as we adopted it, and perhaps on the path of incentives it is better to look for a higher collection of insurance, including such a bill, you know, we recently submitted to the Social Security Code, not on the path of sanctions and criminalisation of all kinds of things, starting from speeding and so on and so forth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u106	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. The right to the doppelganger? You're giving up. Thank you to Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy for Participation in Parliamentary Control. Eight questions and two questions will be answered by Mrs. Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food. The first question is from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on the establishment of the Executive Agency "Certifying Audit of European Agricultural Funds" in the composition of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues! My question is asked in January and is related to what the Ministry of Agriculture and Food publishes on its website, and it is about the creation of the Executive Agency "Certifying Audit of European Agricultural Funds" in the composition of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I accept that, according to the current regulation, this is possible in terms of the fact that the Ministry in the last two or three years has had a serious problem with choosing a certification body. The decision taken by the Ministry is not contrary to European regulations. Agreeing with this situation, which relates to the regulatory base, however, from the reasons that you proposed and put forward to the draft law, it is not clear how appropriate it is to build such a similar structure and it is in the second programming period from which it has already been two years. Is there a financial analysis of the funds needed for the work of the new Agency? I can complement not only financial analysis here, but is there an expert potential to implement such a certification body? The issue that I am also interested in is related to the fact that 2016 has started. How will the issue of the certification body be resolved for 2016, given the problems that appeared in 2015 for certification of European funds under the Funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u108	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, honourable MPs! First, I would like to answer that the question is indeed asked in January. I was also in parliamentary control at the time, but time was not enough for this issue. In your question, you have made a statement on how the decision we have adopted, announced to establish a public body certifying the funds under the European Agricultural Funds, is admissible and legally regulated. I would also like to say very frankly, my dear Professor. Bachvarova, that you motivated me to take the decision, with the questions you asked me about the procedures for selecting a certification body held at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food not only in my term, but in mandates before that. In your previous questions, and you have done an analysis of problems that have happened and of a choice that has been made in some deadlines, which creates tension in terms of work and is also a type of instability. I say very frankly that you have practically motivated me to take this decision, with your analysis, for which, of course, I thank you, as you have drawn attention to this issue, and you have been right in your analysis of the procedures that have been carried out in the years since 2006 to date in relation to this obligation that we have as a Member State of the European Union. What does this analysis show? Since 2006, including last year, 8 million have been spent in the selection of the certification body. 707 thousand. £673. without VAT. The average annual cost is 772 thousand. lv. A little taller. The public procurement carried out in my term and completed last year is the lowest since 2006 of 347 thousand. lv. without VAT, and in several years before that the highest amount reached nearly three times higher costs for the same period. Given the problems you've been asking me, quoting and analyzing, you were absolutely entitled to the analysis that was practically yours, and I checked it out, we made that decision. I firmly believe that it will create much greater sustainability in terms of how the funds and controls should be spent. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Undoubtedly, the cost that is envisaged is higher than the lowest I have quoted you, but we will ultimately be sure of how we spend European funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u111	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! After all, I wasn't answered the question, first of all, what do we do with 2016? In 2016, we must have a certification body again, and what is proposed as a project takes time to be finalised in the legislation, which means that 2016 will be the year in which these activities will be implemented again through an external company, i.e. by auction. I understand that my questions have motivated you to pay attention to the need to have a stable certification body where, in the case of well-made public procurement, in the case of transparency of procedures, there could be no problems in selecting a certification body. Apparently, in recent years, perhaps an exception is only the choice in 2006, 2007 and 2008, when there were no such problems and the choice of a certification body was not attacked in the way it was later received, but in this motivation it is very important to know that the state, acting on certain functions, should do its due diligence. You said eight million. lv. is the expenditure from 2006 to, I guess, 2015 including.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u112	Yeah, including.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u113	However, what will it cost the state to establish this certification body? And back to the question of experts, because you know that external companies provide relatively high pay to their experts who work on the certifications of European funds. How will we manage to avoid the conflict that will be obtained in the pay? And my second question is: aren't we going to get into the situation of conflict of interest -- I suppose you've explored it when the managing and certifying authority are the same office -- this is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u115	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, problems in procedures regarding their delay have occurred in each of the years in which they were held, and they have always created tensions regarding compliance with deadlines. As I said in my reply, yes, the costs that we are predicting will be higher, especially than the expenditure that has been for the last year lv. of the procedure, played last year, the lowest price reached, but we get a far more secure guarantee on how the funds are spent and their certification. Secondly, you yourself quoted that you had met the draft documents. They were uploaded to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In practice, public discussion and coordination have passed and its adoption is pending, so for 2016, this certification body will start working. 22 personnel are envisaged, some of whom have special qualifications, that is undeniable. With regard to independence, it is proposed that this be done with the Prime Minister's sanction. There is another certification body in Bulgaria that works on the same principle at the Ministry of Finance and performs the same functions for the other programs, so there is no risk in this regard. Yes, I say again, this will cost a little more than in the procedures that have been played at the moment, but it will give a much higher sustainability of the confidence that funds from European funds are being spent properly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u116	Thank you, Minister Taneva. There's a second question for you. He is one of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev on the preparation of notifications under the Rural Development Programme (2014-2020) from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Mr. Danev, you have the floor to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! The launch of the Rural Development Programme in the summer of 2015 has created prerequisites for significant activity by farmers and processors of agricultural production. Certain budgets covered no more than 20 percent of the investment intentions submitted. Many of the farmers were left with false expectations and with interest expect the launch of some of the measures again. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food is preparing notifications to the European Commission to correct some of the measures under the Rural Development Programme. What guidelines are the prepared changes? What do the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's analyses show for problems during the first application period so that the farmers' projects can take into account both the findings and the instructions from the Ministry during the next reception?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u118	Here you are, Minister Taneva, to answer the question asked within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u119	Given the volume of the questions asked, I'll also have to answer in the back. With regard to notifications and procedures. The first proposal under the Rural Development Programme for the new programming period 2014-2020 is officially addressed to the European Commission services through the data exchange system on 29 December 2015. The proposal includes the following changes to the approved text of the Programme. The first change concerning farmers is the extension of the scope of support under the Small Agricultural Sub-programme. The amendment concerns the inclusion of agricultural holdings with a production volume of EUR 6000 up to EUR 7999 in the sector of "Life' in the scope of investment support for small farms within the framework of sub-measure 4.1.2 and 4.2.1 of the Small Agricultural Thematic Sub-programme. The second amendment is the introduction of a new heading under the 10th Agro-environment and climate. The new direction is to ensure diverse grazing of bees, to ensure natural pollination. The aim is to diversify bee grazing and at the same time stimulate natural pollination and interaction between plant farmers and beekeepers. The proposed application will support farmers who commit to the cultivation of honey plants. In the direction can apply farmers who have concluded a contract with a beekeeper with registered according to the requirements of art. 137 of the Animal Health Act bees and in the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. At least 20 bee families shall be kept in the apiary. Applicants should ensure compliance with a grazing rate of not less than one family per 0,5 hectares. Conditions for directional support shall be that the areas are located within a distance of up to 1 km from the apiary during a flowering period. Only preparations established as bees-sparing by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency may be used on the areas applied for in the field. The keepers shall grow at least two honey plants and the area of the smallest crop shall be less than 20% of the total area of the direction. The application of the heading may begin after the process of clarifying the details with the Commission has been completed. There are three other technical amendments and they do not concern farmers. The first amendment of the Programme is in the following stages. At the end of January, first comments were received from the Commission on the amendment submitted. A reply was received from the managing authority, an official bilateral meeting was held on 7 March between the Commission services, representatives of the managing authority and, in practice, the official transmission of the additional material to the European Commission and their approval. The second notification of an amendment to the Rural Development Programme. She's the first one this year. It was presented and approved by the Monitoring Committee on 11 March 2016. The amendment includes several changes to Sub-Supreme 4.1. In the case of sub-measure 4.1, the amount of eligible expenditure for a project and for a candidate for the implementation period of the Programme shall be reduced to 1 million. Euros. Reduction of the maximum intensity of financial aid to 60% of the total eligible expenditure. For collective investment submitted by recognised producer groups or organisations, a maximum of 70% of the approved costs. Precise the assessment criterion related to organic production, thus giving priority only to certified organic producers and not to those still in negotiations. Precise the evaluation criterion aimed at projects from the Northwestern region. Inclusion of a new eligible activity and eligible investment costs related to irrigation and drainage within agricultural holdings. The introduction of a new assessment criterion aimed at sustainable employment in existing farms. Introduction of a new assessment criterion aimed at further promoting the integrated approach on agricultural holdings. It is mainly provided for projects with investments in the construction or renovation of buildings, premises and other real estate, including facilities, equipment and machinery other than agricultural equipment which are installed in them. The last two proposals were requested by branch organizations within the framework of debates and meetings that we have had. In the case of asset 14... Humane treatment of Inclusion of cattle and buffalo over 24 months of age as an opportunity to assist in the activity. Provision of a free floor area of 10% above the minimum standard for cattle. Adding opportunity for year-round free boxing within the activity. Provision of free outdoor cultivation for large ruminants. What are the stages for the second notification? Firstly, sending the amendment proposal through the official electronic system, as these amendments voted on Friday must be adopted. We expect this to be done by Friday next week, within three months of the submission of the proposal for amendment to the Programme, the Commission must deliver an implementing act approving or rejecting the proposed proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u120	Thank you, Minister Taneva. I have left you almost twice as much time as the answer is important to people who are watching and listening to us. The line is prof. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues! The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has set a record in relation to notifications that concern only six or seven months since the launch of the Programme. If we walk at such a pace, it is likely that every year the notifications will be a fact that will make it very difficult for all beneficiaries, because changing the rules therefore leads to an inability to meet the requirements of the Programme. At least that's our point. I would like to draw attention to your analysis of the changes in the equity 4.1.. Modernisation of agricultural holdings.............................................................................................. What's the statistic? The programme had to realise the opportunity for these sensitive sectors to invest and be sustainable for a long period of time. According to data from the National Statistical Institute for 2014 the share of livestock has fallen to 25.5 percent. This is unseen! There is no country in the European Union that has such a ratio of 65.5% plant farming and 25.5% livestock production, which means that we produce raw materials and not add value to the products we produce. The share of fruit decreased and represented only 4.2 percent of total plant production in the sector and the vegetables collapsed to 3.2%. The reduction in aid intensity means that these sectors will be placed almost equal to the other sectors in the economy, which have significantly better performance. For us, the problems to be analysed are related not so much to the intensity of the aid, but, for example, to the reference prices. Why did it happen that the reference prices were 30-40% higher? What does energy efficiency mean? Why did we allow new companies and at the same time look for organic production three years ago? And perhaps the last question that I have to you about the first notification is about beekeeping and pollination will be applied in 2016?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Professor Bachvarova, what was voted on by the Monitoring Committee as a second notification was the result of a broad public debate with the stakeholders and with a very detailed analysis of the first reception. I want to give some data after the State Fund has applied a reduction at reference prices, and some of them have been increased. What's the situation right now? Out of 3362 submitted project proposals, 579 were approved, with contracts concluded for most of them, representing 17.2% of the applications submitted and from the approved but applied subsidy New 375 projects are still under consideration, which have up to 39 points including, which represents another 10% of the requested budget, or we will go to the approval of nearly 30% of the applications submitted and as much of the requested budget as a subsidy. What I would like to clarify is the proposed new criteria, if we applied them to the old budget of Measure 4.1 under the new conditions, would mean more than 40% more farmers, which would have been supported by their project proposals. This comes from reducing the ceiling and reducing the intensity. This is the extrapolation due to the analysis and impact of the criteria. Of course, the beneficiaries wouldn't be the same. The change in the criteria would have led to an advantage of having farmers already working and showing a certain market sustainability.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u124	Thank you, Minister Taneva. You will be able to answer some of the other questions as there is another question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev regarding registration of the legal grounds for use of the agricultural land. Mr. Danev, it's tradition that you ask the question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! In accordance with the requirements of art. 41, para. 3 of the Agricultural Aid Act, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food should develop a specialized software product for registration of the legal grounds for use of agricultural land. According to the Act in force, this should be carried out in a professional capacity and the deadline for its introduction was 1 January 2015. Dear Minister, at the end of 2014, you noted that this product for objective and subjective reasons was not ready, so for 2015 it could not be used and imposed. For the new business year, is the Ministry of Agriculture and Food ready to meet the requirements of the Agricultural Aid Act? Has the specialized software product been developed and will it be applied in the new campaign for direct area payments?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Danev. Following a response from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Desislava Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, prof. Bachvarova and Mr. Danev! I'm finishing the question you obviously wanted to hear on a microphone. The new Agro-environment and climate area for diversification of bee grazing will be implemented when it is approved by the Commission. Its application does not concern the period for direct payments, it can also be applied in a later period and will be applied. We are also prepared for a regulation. It passed public consultation when it received final approval of the Commission. By this measure, we had some communication with regard to specifying the details of the rules for its implementation. To the question that has now been asked to me, I should point out that the 2015 campaign was the first since 2007 to carry out real control over the existence of a legal basis for declaring areas under direct payment schemes. There were difficulties for both farmers and the administration. These difficulties are mostly conditioned by the great fragmentation of land estates in the country. The total number of properties of the Restored Property Map and Cadastral Map exceeds 12 million. On the other hand, despite the efforts and provided for in the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land since 2010, opportunities for the comatose use of agricultural massifs have been available, especially in southern Bulgaria, where users first concluded agreements for the use of land. Despite the problems, the volume of the requested areas and the relevant registered legal bases were ultimately comparable to that of past years. The procedure for the establishment of a single information system of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, in which a subsystem for registering the legal grounds for use of agricultural land is included, was launched at the beginning of 2015. Public procurement for the development of a geographical information system (GIS) for the needs of the The complaint lodged the applicant's request for a temporary measure to be imposed "stop'. The procurement procedure has been suspended in accordance with the provision of art. 120a, para. 2 of the Law. By decision of 2 December 2015, the Commission for Protection of Competition annulled as an unlawful decision of 2 October opening at the Supreme Administrative Court. Case No 365/2016 to settle the substantive dispute. By decision of 1 February 2016, the Supreme Administrative Court ruled that the appeal against the Decision initiating a procedure for the geographical information system was rejected. The decision is final. The procedure for building this system in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has been resumed. The deadline for submitting tenders expired on 14 March 2016, within which two tenders were received for the execution of the contract. A selection commission has been appointed for a contractor who is already examining the tenders submitted, within 90 days will come up with a final decision. In the meantime, changes have been made to the information system, as well as to the manner and structure of the information submitted on available legal bases to the system of administration and control of applications for support to enable the application of areas only within the property boundaries for which the applicant has a registered legal basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u128	Thank you. The line is written by Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! The answer to the question follows that the Ministry has a problem with public procurement. As my colleague said last year to the same question we asked you, you said that in 2015 the Ministry will start its work with updated software, which will create an opportunity to create a single information system and will solve many of the issues that arise during the campaign for direct payments. I carefully followed your appearances regarding the opening of the campaign, where you presented a new improved version of the visualization of the legal grounds. In your opinion, this will lead to justice, in particular, in solving the issue of overlaps. Our opinion is that there will again be a problem with overlaps, because again, it is your idea that has registered the legal bases, that they have overlaps, that they solve each other with situations where there is a overlap. I don't know if you know the situation in the country, what's going on. In most cases, it is impossible to do so. There are cases in southern Bulgaria where there are forged leases and these forged leases are accepted for the same reason as the lease contract concluded with real entities. In any form they cannot resolve their contradictions, which means that both parties have no right to support. If the Ministry does not intervene in resolving these disputes, it may not have the right, but, understand, these are people who want to get their rents and those who have done the necessary to conclude up-to-date contracts must have the opportunity to support themselves. There is a mass practice to abuse itself with the aim of not obtaining this adequate solution. However, I expect a more impotent response from you for the next year..... what will happen because it is important?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Next is the duplicate by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Desislava Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, I must have been the person who most wanted this procedure to have been completed and at the moment to implement the campaign on a whole new system that will make the process as easy as possible. Of course, by the deadlines I said, including the risk of all appeals. Since there are two candidates, surely the other who is not the winner will appeal. By including the average time limits for issuing the relevant authorities, I believe that for the next campaign, it should already be fully built in any case. With regard to the subject that you have put in place in connection with fraud or false treaties and the case of overlaps. The introduction of new elements into this policy for the last campaign, by the way, the visualization, the vision of the overlap, made the overlap rate less than twice. This is the statistics, because for the most part, those who overlap have practically solved their own conflict of who has a legal basis. However, with regard to the case, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to assess which contract is false by fraud and who is the actual one, we do not have such powers as a state institution. In addition, we studied this case very thoroughly in the last campaign. There is also no uniform caselaw on rights of use with priority when presenting different legal bases. Where there is uniform caselaw, there are indications that have been applied as early as last year and account has been taken of what is the real legal basis, but for the most part the caselaw is different and we cannot and cannot solve it. That's what farmers need to know. Now everything is visualized and decide their own rights. And this year for the same areas there are several legal bases registered and we cannot refuse this registration because it is an administrative action. It does not essentially decide who is the beneficiary who is entitled to the use of these lands. The registered legal bases are significantly more than the average amount of agricultural areas applied for, so that these cases will arise again. I explained what we could do as an administration. You can see everything. I hope that the more agreements there are for these rights, the less problems and the less damage there will be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u132	Thanks for the douche bag, Madam Secretary. Next is a question from the National Representative Chavdar Peychev on the protection of the interests of Bulgarian poultry farming. Mr. Pejchev, please come to the stand and state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, on 8 February 2016 at a meeting with poultry farmers in Northwestern Bulgaria managed to convince me that they were victims of dumped imports of chicken, and it was shown to me that theoretically the lowest cost of kg of chicken produced in Bulgaria is BGN 2.61 at the exit of the slaughterhouse. without VAT, the calculation is drawn as follows. The optimal product performances such as nipability, scaling, growth, randeman, mortality, nutritional, mineral and quality composition of feed and others are taken, given in the official technologies of the main manufacturers in the European Union of hybrids for weight loss production COOPIROS. Raw materials for feed are valued at stock prices and average wages in the sector, which are slightly above the minimum wage. At the same time, chicken meat produced in Poland and Romania is imported into our country, which free foreign slaughterhouses are sold at a price of between 95 cents and 1 euro and 5 cents depending on the mass of production, and already in Bulgaria, after transport costs, an overvalue of the trader, a kilogram of chicken wholesale is sold at BGN 2,15-2,20. without VAT. Given that the animal welfare subsidy for poultry farmers is around 10 cm. The lowest possible cost of produced chicken meat in Bulgaria is BGN 2.50 per kilogram. I mean, 50. higher than the selling price of slaughterhouses in other Member States of the European Union, namely Poland and Romania. In this regard, Dear Minister, have similar calculations been made in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, has this anomaly been established, what are the reasons for it and what measures has the Ministry taken to counter such devastating phenomena for Bulgarian poultry farming? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u134	Thank you for your question. Minister Taneva, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Peychev, the producers of chicken are suffering losses, as well as producers of pork, fruits and vegetables, the losses of the sector are the most fragile. Unfortunately, that's the trend. After the imposition of the Russian embargo in 2014, these trends have increased and to this day we are still, as a whole, the whole European Union and each of the member states, including Bulgaria, are in this spiral. I would like to present you with some official data taken from the statistics of the Commission and Agrostatistics in terms of prices. Following the price movement in the individual Member States of the European Union, for the whole of 2015, it is noticed that in most of them the one-year value of frozen kollers is below the level of 2014. The average price of frozen chickens in Bulgaria is 150.63 euros per 100 kg. per kilogram, with a percentage and a half of the level of 2014 and the average European is BGN 3.67. per kilogram of the product by 1.8% lower than the previous one. The new 2016 started with prices lower than the end of the previous and in January the price of frozen chickens on the Bulgarian market is BGN 2.82. per kilogram, which is 4,3% below the average for 2015. In January 2016 the registered average European price is BGN 3.50. per kilogram of the product by 4.6% lower. The 2015 expiry year is characterised by a decrease in prices of all Member States, including Bulgaria. It is good to note that the price on the Bulgarian market is not the lowest of the Union. There are several countries that are lower prices than Bulgaria, and hence are the imports that you mentioned. In wholesale prices of chicken in the last two years, there has been indeed a slight decline, which is dictated by many factors, including by the cost-adding factor of production. The wholesale prices of chicken like those mentioned in your question are not registered on the Bulgarian market by the official authorities. Production in the European Union. In Poland and Romania, a larger number of kollers are grown, which presupposes a large production of poultry meat from them and the above prices. In Poland, around 100 million kollers were grown and in 2014 the meat produced amounted to 1 million. 804 thousand. Ton; in Romania,......34 million euros... 375 thousand euros. tons of meat. These are the main producers. In Bulgaria it is produced for 2014, where we have an increase compared to 2013, a total of 97 thousand. 995 tonnes of chicken, including slaughter, including offal inside. The imports we make on average per year are around the production we have. For 2014 it is 89 thousand. the tone, mainly from the countries that you have quoted, and these are countries with lower prices and statistics from the Commission from Bulgaria. The exports we make regularly every year in the same volume that Bulgarian producers export are about 26 thousand. the tone. A large part of the Bulgarian production of chicken meat is export-oriented, mainly for the countries of the European Union, Greece, Cyprus, the United Kingdom. Supporting the sector... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Let me finish, because here I will also quote figures that are in response to your quoted figures. I'm gonna have to ask you to take some of my douche time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u136	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u137	The State aid for the implementation of the voluntary commitment to the welfare of birds is from 2012 for a period of 5 years with a budget of 150 million. lv. For this year, we have already voted on a budget of 28 million. lv. This State aid amounts to 68 pp. annual, which, referred to 1 kg of chicken meat, represents 0.32 leva. or 32 c., and the funds for it are entirely from the state budget, which also shows commitment to the sector. Birds farming is also defined as a priority under the Rural Programme under the measures that have been opened and whose admission is to be re-established.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u138	Thank you, dear Minister. Next up is a line. Mr. Peichev, you have the floor to replicate within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Minister, you started well in your reply, but then you diverted attention a little bit and exposed a significant unnecessary piece of information that didn't answer the question I asked you. With regard to the price, where you expressed your doubts, you said that no such price was registered by the state authorities in Bulgaria, I advise and recommend that they register it. I personally have such invoices of companies in Bulgaria who trade in chicken at these prices that I give you here in the matter. This NRA can safely identify it by reviewing the documentation of several companies that trade in chicken meat..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is not so difficult for a state institution to exchange some information. As far as the subsidy is concerned, the amount of the subsidy was 68. This is a subsidy for a unit capacity in a cylindrical place. In one number, Madam Minister, five turns per year are viewed at least. The optimal, at best, is six, but five turns wouldn't be a problem. Five and a half kilos, as much as the carnal weight of a weight, is seven and a half kilos, i.e. the subsidy is less than 10 centimeters. There are other negative phenomena that I did not address at the beginning of my question and this is about the grey sector in trade without invoice. There are also imports of chicken meat in the sector. The figures you expressed for imports are significantly greater real, but assuming that you are working with official data, I agree. It's not right to belittle the problem. The problem is very serious, the state does not provide enough help to poultry farmers and this will actually lead to their significant reduction as numbers and as produced production, separately... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Okay, I'm graduating.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u140	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u141	I also wanted to say that the continuous dumped imports pose risks for Bulgarian producers not to comply with the rules for fattening animals, i.e. to threaten in some way the health of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Peichev. Minister Taneva, you have a word for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Peychev! I argue that the data I export for State aid is extremely accurate and correct. They are the subject of a decision of the Management Board of the State Fund, so there is no way to make them up. This is, of course, subject to verification. Anyone can see, the decisions are public. I'll quote professor again. Bachvarova, but as a matter of fact, she proposed that the decisions should be uploaded to the website within three days, we, the members of the Commission, adopted this proposal and implemented it strictly. With all these funds and budgets, anyone who wants to get acquainted can. Under no circumstances can I agree with the claim that we are neglecting the sector. I explained that this is the situation throughout the agricultural sector and the state is dividing 300 million. lv. and this year in the budget voted by the National Assembly to support various instruments of Bulgarian agriculture. This trend, this decline is for the whole Community and given the free movement of goods, we should be aware that the exit from this spiral for Bulgarian production is possible only if the Community comes out of this trend, because Bulgaria cannot adopt national decisions limiting the free trade of goods. That has to be clear so the debate we're having... We propose a solution for them to lead to a real result. No one wants this tendency to overcome, and we are looking for all sorts of mechanisms to support production as in the measures that we have taken since last year, with regard to the grey sector, I say it, in response to this, we, for most of the measures, have already requested financial documents to prove realised sales. This, by the way, is the reason why, in the indicative schedule for direct payments, those for tied support are late, given the very large volume of documents that we received for processing, but next week, they will still be paid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u144	Thanks for the douche bag, Madam Secretary. There is a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov on the current policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to create order in the land relations. Mr. Gokov, you will develop your question. By the book, your time is up to three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, the formal question to you is: what is the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to create order and sustainability in land relations? Technically, because the land relations in Bulgaria are extremely complex and the problems cannot be exhausted with one question. Especially now, when the Bulgarian who owns agricultural land is forced to conclude lease contracts for the processing of its land and at the same time knows that the lease contracts are one of the reasons for declaring and obtaining European subsidies per unit of area from the one who processes the land. There are still some serious problems between landowners and tenants. The lease payments have become a battle between landowners and tenants and are a discussion theme since the beginning of the transition. These relations are difficult to manage, but must be resolved and regulated by the state, because the Bulgarian remains with the feeling that the state is on the side of the incorrect tenants who lie to him and cheat him. I'm a MP from Stara Zagora. I'm prof. Bachvarova from Dobrich. These are agricultural areas with many arable areas and thousands of lease contracts. People are coming to our receptions, lied to and cheated by the tenants to whom they gave their lands. It is generally the ignorance of rights and obligations, the lack of information about the amount of fair payments on the rent. On the back of landowners many tenants became millionaires, buzzing with luxury SUVs and mocking the owners by delaying payments or not paying at all. On top of that, the state tolerates them and pays them additional European and national funds, outside the subsidies per unit of area. I ask myself, when will people get a fair rent for their land based on its extraction and not on the distorted monopoly of the market dictated by the agro-oliger cartels? We have repeatedly suggested that there should be some kind of order in which public information on the amount of fair payments by agricultural areas should be provided. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Regional Services publish by municipalities rent payments on the basis of contracts actually concluded and on this basis the white spots are paid. This may be an indication of the market price of the rent and the owner to seek in some form the actuality of the rent payments, but this is not enough. Landowners are in a bad situation. In the current legal situation, the owner of the land is less important than the tenant, and the principle must be that everyone who has ownership, in this case agricultural land, must receive an economic realization of this property, and that is only through fair rent. Another problem is overwork. There were whole groups of mediators in one place, in one place he made contracts and then he overcharged all the land and who received the claim is not clear who paid the rent, who didn't pay the full mess and eventually the owner suffered and didn't even know where his land was in a cooperative, in tenants and didn't know who to look for the rent and most often got nothing for his land for which the original contract was concluded. We suggested in the lease agreement that land-related requirements should be specified in advance and that the owners should be informed of any change. Interesting are the issues related to the cancellation of the lease contract there is also a complete mess. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] A text may be signed to manage this process and, as in other contracts, if one of the parties fails to fulfil the agreed relations, the other may break the contract under the general order of the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Many prerequisites for abuse and many abuses! What are we doing, Madam Minister, on this matter?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u146	Thank you. Just to remind you that after the Minister's reply, which in this case will be in five minutes, you can ask two supplementary questions to be more specific. Minister Taneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Gokov, in your passionate speech, I felt the seriousness you are giving to this question. What I could say right now is whether I should answer your questions directly or in principle explain how these relationships work and what we have done.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u148	Maybe you both have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u149	Yeah, I know I got five minutes. For some of the things, maybe I'll repeat myself. The settlement of land relations in Bulgaria begins with the adoption of the Law on Property and Use of the Land after 1990 when the land is restored within real borders and from where practical problems start, which... To this day, in the Bulgarian legislation, we have not found an instrument with which we absolutely, correctly, to bring order to the equality of all countries in the process. The legal acts governing land relations, the conservation of agricultural land and everything related to them are 11, with many regulations. What have we done in the year and four months of our mandate? We tried to change the rules in a way that would lead to greater justice in land relations, defending the rights of the owner and the user. What do I mean? We have introduced the legal basis as a criterion for eligibility of support. This happened in 2015, and this year, one step further, and eligibility will be adopted geographically. For the first time, agreements were concluded in such a volume for the use of agricultural land, where the white spots were paid and for the first time owners of agricultural land who did not have contracts for use with the relevant users were paid the average rent contributions and they are entitled to take them from their respective accounts. This year, the number of agreements and the land included in them, i.e. white spots, which were currently being worked, received subsidies on them, but no rents were paid to the owners, this year are even bigger. You know what my surprise is? The day before yesterday I spoke with one director of our Regional Directorate of Agriculture, this year in the eligibility for support there is another condition, other than the individualization of the property, and the paid white spot. This is also a step further than 2015. What was my surprise when I was reported that we were required to receive instructions from the owners of agricultural land already addressed to the district offices of R &amp; D with a request from those accounts, which paid the white spots, to receive their respective rent. As a matter of fact, I thought that white spots exist and do not contract with users because the owners are abroad, outside the country, and this costs them. From what I'm learning, of course, I am glad that we managed to put order in these relations last year, but the owners are in the area, but they simply obviously have no communication with the users and go to the services to get their own. Just a year and four months ago, dear Mr. Gokov, that was impossible. With regard to the subject and the problem that arises regarding the correctness of each party. In Bulgaria there is a common legislative order in relation to such a dispute and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food cannot administer this dispute. He must refer to the vessel concerned. We cannot apply rules outside the common order. Of course, I have indicated the cooked codification of land legislation and its update, and in the course of this broad public debate that we intend to hold, we will be open to any proposals for solutions that would ease the process. I most responsiblely argue that since last year.. this life and health, everything to be completed successfully, justice in terms of the distribution of the total subsidies packages for direct payments.. these are nearly a billion and a half leva, is much greater in times than it was before. The direction is clear. We need to find, especially the national representation, the legal instruments, so that these rules are in this direction, and we still need to know our national interest, and it is this relationship to be regulated in a way that provokes competitive agriculture. That is to say, the farmer has sustainability in the.. long-term use in order to make investments and coma of use, which allows for greater efficiency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u150	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the opportunity, Mr. Gokov, to ask up to two supplementary questions within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am passionate about speech because these relations concern two thirds of the Bulgarians who own land and who with more, who with less, his only chance is to give it under rent because there is no other alternative. Article 21 of the Constitution defines the land as a special kind of property that cannot be left empty because it has to feed us. If he does not enter into a contract with the tenant, under the conditions they impose on him, the owner risks his land falling into the category of the so-called and quoted white spots, where the robbery, I assure you, is even greater, but there is no time to explain to you what this is about. I guess you know these things. Madam Minister, how can I say that the answer pleases me when you have not responded to me, for example, what to do with those owners who are systematically breaking the contract and do not know what to do, do not know from whom to take their rent, for years do not receive the rent, and the land is theirs? They must have some, again, economic expression of this property. We criminalize everything in this country, we increase fines, but when it's profitable to the state, and there's no retribution for the crooks in agriculture. I am under the impression that there is deliberately no action being taken to regulate these relations because it is profitable for someone. I don't accuse you of lobbying, but that's what it looks like, believe me. And there's no way that these relationships have been imposed for 25 years to change them with their finger, but at least let's see that they're going in the right direction and possibly at a slightly faster pace. You answer me that they have to seek their rights in court, to conduct their cases, and at their own expense, everyone has to seek their rights from the tenant, but somehow it's illogical. The Bulgarian is poor, has no opportunity to do so, but there is also a Law on obligations and contracts. Why don't we refer the lease to these contracts, but through the court? When will the state intervene to create order and sustainability in these relations? Madam Minister, what are you going to do to break the contractual relationship in land leases, because practice shows that violations are more than normal cases and currently landowners are fully dependent on tenants? When will that change and when will the tenants become dependent on the owners as it should be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u152	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. It was as if there were dozens of questions, but I suggest that you choose two and answer them specifically within three minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u153	Dear Mr. Gokov, I would appeal to you to listen to each other when we speak. As far as white spots are concerned, I told you that since last year there is no more white stain that has been subsidized. That's what we ended. And there's a line for the owner to look for his money, even though he didn't sign a contract. With regard to the problems with the payment of the rent contributions. The only legal way is for the owner of agricultural land, if he is not satisfied or there are violations of the clauses which he has signed himself, to use the relevant contract, if there are explicit terms for it, or the general legal order to terminate that contract. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food cannot decide this case for a professional nature. If you, the people's representation, have the will to do these relations in a special order in this country and not in general order, it is the will of the law. At the moment, what we have done as policies is that we have stopped the white stains for subsidies. We have done so within the scope of the general legal order that exists and applies in Bulgaria, and it is much fairer. Now I can give advice to farmers who don't pay rents, what to do, but it's like giving them advice on how to have an alternative option for receiving subsidies if the owner doesn't pay it and this is the regime under which white spots are paid with an extra payment, but we can't, as the Ministry, break contracts between the owner and the tenant. That's what I think everyone knows.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u154	Thank you, dear Minister. Prof. Bachvarova, part of the rules of asking is that you finally have the opportunity to relate to these answers within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u155	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, colleagues! The question was about the Rent and Rent Payment Act, but it went a little sideways in your exhibition. I would like to say that, in general, in all countries of the European Union, rent relations are decided differently, but in all countries the state controls the land market, including rent payments, so that there is no abuse and speculation on the ground. Our question was related to this: how will legislation change in order to solve the problems of owners? Because it was created quickly and thrown on a sheet in 1999. The Landing Act, from there on, has not been changed. During this time there were practices that are extremely vicious and do not comply with the legislation, including in Bulgaria. What are we talking about? First, the rate of rent. The rate of rent is different in different areas, even within one land. There is no publicity whatsoever about what this level of rent is. You have closed the opportunity for SAPI (Agromarket Information System) to publish every year the market prices of agricultural land, as well as the rate of rent payments. Statistics on this matter are silent. Secondly, the inability to break the contracts. I don't know if you know this, but whoever made a lease, even if they don't pay him rent payments, he can't spoil it in any form. This means that with your thesis we return to you, I'd rather have a white spot than a lease contract, because at least by the white spots I get some pay, and the tenant may not pay me at all what he uses as land, like land management. Furthermore, lease contracts are concluded, notice, unlike the Property Act, by only one owner. This is also impossible to accept as normal practice. Because one owner makes a contract for all co-owners. In the Property Act, the owners must agree with 50% plus one when the land is ordered. There are situations here where the owner is not protected in any form. Well, you know, renting is a different topic. We need a new lease law. If it is not known that the owner is leading in this pyramid that is being obtained, there is no way for you to defend constitutional property rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u156	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Next is a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on the ongoing implementation of Operational Programme ............................................... Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor to formulate a question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u157	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! We all know that the implementation of the Operational Programme is underway "Rural Development," 2014 "2020" which includes financing of projects of both Bulgarian municipalities and farmers. In relation to the ongoing implementation of the Programme, please provide me with the answers are there any ready regulations for applying for sub-measure 7.2.... in the creation, improvement or expansion of all types of small-scale infrastructure..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The answers to these questions are extremely important both for Bulgarian municipalities and for beneficiaries who are engaged in non-farming activities. True, you may say that there have been some problems in the previous programming period, but still this thing has been agreed with the European Commission and in some way must be implemented. However, we have some delay in the launch of this Programme, such as time and by 2020 the time in which they need to be implemented, and serious infrastructure projects under these measures are not extremely long. However, we need to hear your views on this topic so that we can understand at least the beneficiaries themselves under these sub-measures can have the appropriate readiness to apply so that they can develop their projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Minister Taneva, I see you can't wait to answer the question. [[M Minister Desislava Taneva's comments.]] Now we'll hear your answer, it should be within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u159	Well, yeah, I'm really short this time. It's just that there's an indicative schedule. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov! Of course, I will answer very specifically. For sub-measure 7.2, the process of preparation of the regulation started in November 2015 with information, methodology and analysis required, as well as holding workshops with the authorities responsible for the various policies. At present, a first version of a regulation has been developed and it is due to be discussed within the thematic working group by the end of March. The draft regulation on the sub-measure 7.2.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I can tell you the schedule we're working on right now. As a public discussion, we consider: on 15 April 2016, the Monitoring Committee plans to publish 1 May 2016, from the 15th to the 30th, and to conduct the relevant procedure for sending in an official order in the Official Journal of the European Union to be published at the end of May-June, then to open the reception. In all of this, as a work schedule, I presented to you the schedule on which the group is working at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. And with regard to the admissions indicated for this year, once again I would like to repeat that we are public and this whole schedule, including for the first year and an indicative timetable for direct payments, was posted on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the State Fund. Anyone interested in this sector or eligible beneficiary may familiarize himself with these deadlines. Deviations from these indicative deadlines so far have not lasted more than two weeks, which ultimately in an annual plan gives a good indication of how to plan the relevant activities. As regards the sub-measure 6.4........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Analyses are to be carried out here on the effectiveness of aided investments in tourism during the 2007-2013 programming period in order to avoid inefficient investments and achieve maximum results indicators of the new programme. When this analysis is completed and communication with the relevant authorities next year, we plan to make public communication and then the measure will be opened.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u160	Thank you, dear Minister. A line, dear Mr. Ivanov? Would you like to come in?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! It is good that here on the stands you have reviewed the schedules you have set for implementation in respect of sub-measure 7.2. Believe me, the issue is really extremely important, as this concerns the investment activities of many Bulgarian municipalities, which fall within the scope of funding under the Operational Programme. I have personally spoken with several mayors as Vice-President of the European Affairs and Control Committee on European Funds. Unfortunately, many of them are not aware of precisely the eligibility of certain activities in which they could apply under this measure, because, you know, according to the regulation, criteria are also defined by which municipalities are arranged as different bonifications. I'm not wrong about what I'm saying, am I? They are worried that the late publication of the regulation would make it difficult for them to prepare themselves for their respective projects. I hope that publication at the end of May of this regulation will not be too late for them to prepare their own projects and draw out the necessary building permits. As regards sub-measure 6.4, I am personally a little concerned that there will be no reception in 2016. Perhaps it is good with the team you are working with to think about it, and if you have noticed that in the previous period for such a measure there have been ineffective activities, if necessary, they should drop out in order not to delay others, as the deadlines for implementation will be extremely short in view of the investment activities that are being carried out, such as project design and preparation. If there is really any possibility that those who are ineffective are to separate them from this measure and that it will be launched with activities on which there will actually be some sustainable outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. A hole? Minister Taneva, please come in. I will ask you to specify the measures and their name.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u163	Yes, the President of the National Assembly reminded me not to talk in numbers only about sub-measure 6.4. It is about investments in guest houses, in photovoltaics, because in practice these are the main types of non-farming activities in which the beneficiaries asked to support them during the old programming period. And this measure 6.4 under the new Programme is not intended for adoption. I have already said what are the reasons and I can now indicate that in no case will this measure 6.4 repeat the conditions under which it was applied during the old programming period and there should be no such expectation. That's what we should know. With regard to the indicated receptions, honourable Members, we should also consider the administrative capacity of the State Fund for Agriculture and Rural Development to process the project proposals. We have tried in the indicative schedule, which was last year, and realized, by the way, although many of you did not believe it, to do it according to the level of interest, expectations and the new application program to be processed, and to enter into regular mode afterwards, after 2018 and about the absorption of funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u164	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the MPs Rumen Yonchev and Yavor Haytov on the policy and strategy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the Development of the Sector "Lozarism and Winery" and the removal of wine vineyards and wine grapes from the scope of the so-called............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Haytov, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, it is normal for Mr. Yonchev and I, as representatives of the Agricultural Union, to raise these questions, because they concern many people who make a living, who make a living with the sector.................................................................................... The winery and winery in Bulgaria have deep millennial traditions and history. Since ancient times, wine is a major object of trade and a symbol of economic prosperity in our territories. In modern times, wine production gradually restores its position as a major sector in the industry of Agriculture and leading product in terms of the country's exports. Despite the huge difficulties and the loss of markets during the disbandment and transition to a market economy, winery remains an extremely important part of the Bulgarian economy. This is mainly due to the natural resources of Bulgarian nature, the traditions of the past, but also to the serious prospects and opportunities offered by the expanding international markets. Bulgaria has long declared wine-growing and wine-making as a major economic and agricultural priority. Wine, along with rose oil and yogurt, are the country's export emblems, are permanently linked to the national tourism product and form an integral part of our country's global image. In this regard, it is particularly important to implement a coordinated and targeted strategy and policy to strengthen and develop this agricultural sector. Bulgarian wine production is exposed to a number of adverse factors, such as fierce competition on international markets, where low-cost products from the New World and a number of other countries dominate, limit access to markets and lack of adequate positioning and advertising of Bulgarian products around the world. At the same time, the sector is exposed to strong market pressure from cheap imports in the field of agricultural production and is placed in a competitive clash with far more profitable and competitive industries. The areas with vines are again decreasing and the raw wine production base is being questioned. Naturally, a key instrument for the implementation of the wine-producing policy in modern times is the Rural Development Programme, the relevant measures to support individual sectors. At the same time, the newly adopted regulations under the Rural Development Programme, which exclude wine-growing and wine-making from the priority sector, put the entire industry on the line, giving bread to more than 200 thousand. Bulgarian citizens directly or indirectly employed in it. The decision of the Management Board of the State Fund, which we hope is a result of misunderstanding, comes against the backdrop of bankrupt vinproms and cellars. It would not be far-reaching to say that the Regulation to Measure 4 of the Rural Development Programme openly discriminates against the entire wine sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u166	I'm gonna have to ask you to focus on finishing up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u167	In view of all that has been said so far, we ask you, Dear Minister, to answer us: what is the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food with regard to Bulgarian winemaking and winemaking? What are the strategic objectives set by the Ministry? How are they protected in the new Rural Development Programme? What are the reasons why wine grapes should be excluded from the list of fruits in the regulations of sub-measure 4.1 and 4.2 of the same Programme and wine producers should be placed in an extremely disadvantaged position compared to the other sectors of agricultural production which are subject to priority support? Thank you for your extra time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u168	And thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Colleagueship obliges us. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer. Within five minutes, you must collect the policy response in a whole sector of wine and wine production. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u169	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Haytov, MPs! For the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food with regard to Bulgarian wine-growing and wine-growing, I should point out that in addition to the Rural Development Programme, there is also a separate programme entirely in support of the sector, such as the National Programme for Supporting the Wine Sector. I would definitely like to point out that this must be clear that the sector is not excluded from the Rural Development Programme. He may and apply for individual measures, but there are no prioritization points given. The priority or additional points to be given to projects in the franking sector are for the sector. However, I can give some figures on 1 April this year that 139 projects or 3% of the financial assistance requested have been submitted under measure 4.1. 32 projects are under consideration, which represents 4% of the financial assistance requested, of the total financial assistance applied for, which is considered, i.e. the ratio is reciprocal. However, as in a previous response to Prof. Bachvarova, I mentioned, projects that have a chance to be approved are 30% of all declared. There's nothing to do here with a hundred percent success rate. She's the middle one. Apart from this, unlike other sectors, this sector has a special National Programme to support the wine sector. Later, I will give other figures that show that the thesis on mass bankruptcy and declining wine cellars is not true at all. Under the 2007 Programme, the planned European funds for support amounted to 120 million. Euros. In the new programming period for the implementation of the National Programme 2014 - 2018 are provided European funds for support of 133 million. 810,000. Euros. The newly planted vine plantings since the introduction of the system for granting planting rights by the National Reserve until 2015 include approximately 6.3 thousand. hectares. Of the estimated volume of 13 thousand. the rights hectares of the National Reserve have been planted vineyards with rights granted for more than half of the available reserve. the hectares, and in conditions of funding shortages and economic crisis. There have been no bankruptcy of wine cellars, and on the contrary, at present registered in the Ministry's system are 262 production sites of wine producers. In the process of building and putting into service are 19 new cellars. I can also give data that the trend has been clear since 2009, annually, including for 2015, every year in more than 20 new cellars producers are put into service. In order to promote the Bulgarian wines in the National Program 2007 "2014" included measure "Promotions in third countries" which is estimated at 7 million. Five hundred thousand. Euros. 65 foreign investors operate in the wine sector in Bulgaria, which shows that the sector has potential for development and investment. The development of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 - 2020 takes into account the main points outlined in the Partnership and Analysis Agreement for Agriculture in the country. The main focus is placed on small farms in the country through the development of the thematic sub-programme for Small Farms, as well as on the targeted direction of financial resources to the sectors of Life, Fruits and Vegetables. The target direction of the resource is in line with the results of the analysis of the needs in agriculture. The program is in line with the negative trends of recent years for significant difficulties in accessing the financial resources of these farms and the continuous reduction of production volumes of traditional productions for Bulgaria. On the basis of the analysis of the Programme and the Partnership Agreement, and in particular Measure 4, several key priorities have also been laid down, aimed at projects implemented in rural and most favoured areas in the country, projects related to innovation, energy efficiency and additional employment. In the light of the foregoing, it cannot be concluded that, with regard to wine-growing and wine-making, there is an inequality with other productions, the aided. In the framework of the sub-measures, both: 4.1 and 4.2, wine-growing farms and wine-producing enterprises have the opportunity to apply for all eligible investments [[the President signals that time has run out]] relating to the production and processing of vineyards. There are such projects that will be approved within the budgets they have applied for.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u170	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Yonchev, please state two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I was hoping that you would answer this question on the eve of February 14... not to make lovers happy, but wine producers and wine producers in Bulgaria, but it is not too late, because the answer is due to the whole industry, which is involved... all the people who work in this industry. I'll take you back to what you said before. In your words, winemaking and winemaking are not a priority, they do not get these 30 points. Isn't that right? [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]] That is, they start with 30 points less when applying for sub-measures 4.1 and 4.2. And you didn't answer me: what is the reason why the Ministry of Agriculture and Food decided in the new programming period that they should not receive this priority, this advantage over all other sectors, but is at stake in other sectors? This advantage is given to other sectors, but not to the sector "Lozarism and winery" which in all strategies for the development of agriculture and food industry in Bulgaria is a priority. Otherwise, the results you have boasted about yes, you have the right to do so, and you have reason, the Bulgarian wine industry has been doing very well in the last few years. This is the merit of several parliaments, of several administrations in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and of the Programme, which worked well for this industry. Many new wine cellars have been created, however, wonderful products being exported around the world, but now that we have stopped their priority, when investments in this sector are no longer priority, they will be exposed to pure competition...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u172	I ask the specific two questions as the time is almost up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u173	...of the huge producers from other countries we compete with. So again, my question is: what were the grounds for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to exclude the sector from the priority sub-measures 4.1 and 4.2? Which estimates, what statistics justified this decision so that they could not apply for support under these two sub-measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Yonchev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Yonchev, I answered in my first statement of this question and I would be very pleased if we could keep our words precise. The sector is eligible for application under the Rural Development Programme. Yes, it has no priority sector points for the simple reason that prioritization is given to sectors that are in times reduced production! Only since our entry into the European Union there has been a five-fold decline in some types of cultures! After 1990, two or three more times, drop ten times! Financing, prioritization is made precisely for those sectors that are underfunded and with a lasting decline in production. By this logic, if we had enough money, if the interest was much smaller than the budget, there wouldn't be that question at all! But we are working in a project readiness, a vision for the development of agriculture by farmers, much greater than the budget of the Rural Development Programme! And we need to give priority to traditional industries with perspective that have been extremely underfunded in recent years and statistics have shown a drastic decline. By the way, they also bring other benefits, especially for rural areas. As far as the wine sector is concerned, it also has a separate programme, whose successful implementation has, of course, led to the good indicators that both you and I quote in statistics from 20 new wine producers each year! Good product! Everyone must want to be a priority sector, but then there will be virtually no politics. We have to reach levels that we have had that would lead to rural employment and to the generation of higher incomes. Of course, we all expect agriculture to emerge more quickly from the crisis that the community is in so that, apart from natural indicators, there will also be growth in financial revenues. In no way has it been damaged, it simply has no priority, given the statistics on the volumes of development of individual subsectors. However, again, projects, as I have already quoted, under Measure 4.1 and under the Young Farmer Measure, will practically be approved. Yes, the percentage is small, but it is small for absolutely all sectors, including those that have priority, such as fruit and vegetables. Less than half of their applications have been practically approved and are subject to consideration. Therefore, we have made the notification of Measure 4.1, with a change of these criteria, so that when it is to be adopted, it will be with all the remaining budget, to satisfy the interest of the majority, if not all who are applying. But the sector is very good, with administrative capacity, and the data shows it. It's just that money is quite limited on the basis of interest, and we can't satisfy all that interest. What is important is that the rules are such that they achieve the ultimate goal of the Programme "restore balanced Bulgarian agriculture."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u176	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Yonchev, you can take the answers to the supplementary questions in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you have responded to me, but again in the same way that priority on winemaking and wine-growing is not placed in this Programme. Isn't that right? You claim that there are other programmes of yes, there is another, special wine-wine programme on which beneficiaries can apply, but it does not cover the same type of investment that are referred to in Sub-measure 4.1 and 4.2. In other words, they cannot invest in equipment, they cannot invest in capacity development. In this way, you deprive the sector of further development. Yeah, we've created something great here, but we're stopping it and we're starting to do something else. I do not claim that you should not support vegetable production or all other sensitive sectors of Bulgarian agriculture, but to the sector of "Lozarism and winemaking" which has achieved its success, which is a flag, a mark of Bulgaria, to claim or to record at the moment that it is not a priority and launch 30 points lower than all others, is absolutely unacceptable. I'm convinced that this has to change. We expect from you really measures to include this sector in the Programme in both sub-measures. Otherwise, investments in the sector will be cut off. Yes, we can build rural houses, our own and bring tourists there, but real production, capacity development, buying modern winemaking equipment will be over. The sector is not so strong, it is not strong enough that it can continue its development on its own, especially in the environment in which it is placed. This is where we compete with the huge conglomerates around the world. Yes, there are foreign investments in Bulgaria, but they are not investments of some of the great winemakers and winemakers around the world, as there are in Chile, in Argentina, in North America and compete with our producers. Here we are talking about small, family business, there are large wine producers, but against the backdrop of the world market they are small. The answer you give that the Bulgarian wine sector is not a priority is not serious. Thank you and I hope you will make appropriate changes to the Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u178	Thank you, Mr. Yonchev. The last question about today's parliamentary control is from the MP Dimitar Delchev on illegal logging of forests and the measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Mr. Delchev, please come in two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, due to the increased signals for illegal logging of forests, last March on a proposal from the Reformation bloc and the National Assembly adopted a moratorium on logging and on exports of timber to third countries. During this time, amendments were adopted to the Forests Act, the purpose of which was to stop illegal mining. In October 2015, you issued Regulation No 18 on inventory and planning of forest areas. The presence of forestry plans in a public register will be beneficial in combating poachers and will enable civil society to actively participate in forest conservation. Despite the legislative changes, however, I have continued to receive, particularly intensively in the last two weeks, many signals of naked logging and illegal cutting of trees near the settlements. In this regard, I would like to ask you a few questions. First, at what stage is the forest inventory procedure? When are the forestry plans expected to be ready? Secondly, what are the results of the checks by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the availability of newly introduced timber controls, in particular GPS and video cameras? Are there sanctions imposed? What are they? In what time will the system for issuing electronic transport tickets be operational? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Minister Taneva, you have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u181	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Delchev, MPs! Inventory of forest areas shall be carried out to establish the state and assess the characteristics of forest resources. The forestry plans shall determine the eligible amount of forest resources use and the guidelines for achieving the objectives of forest management within ten years. The Forest Executive Agency shall annually award a detailed inventory of about one tenth of the area of the country's forest territories or around 400 thousand hectares, while the relevant forest territorial units shall award new forestry plans to be considered as operational planning resources at local and regional level. The practice adopted in almost all EU countries shows that the best assessment of forest resources is achieved at a specific time by carrying out a national forest inventory periodically. The implementation of a national forest inventory in Bulgaria will allow an assessment of the amount of illegal practices in the forest areas to be made, and to help prevent and combat them. It will be possible to improve infrastructure planning, such as forest roads, and at the same time we will facilitate the prevention, management of forest fires, as well as strengthening the country's sustainability against global stress factors. At its meeting on 24 February 2016, the Council of Ministers approved a Draft Agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the World Bank on the provision of advisory services related to the conservation of ecosystems and the sustainable management of natural resources in Bulgaria by conducting a national forest inventory. So the procedure for this has started. Secondly, what are the results of the checks by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food with regard to the availability of funds under control? The actions taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to limit illegal mining in the country of wood were reflected in the changes to the Forest Act of 7 August 2015. The obligation to provide continuous video surveillance systems in the registered sites under art. 206 of the Forests Act, i.e. the sites in which wood is entered, processed and dispatched, is one of the measures that the introduction of which was most widely commented. The effect of its introduction was immediate and more than 200 such sites, warehouses and woodworking workshops, closed because of unwillingness or inability of their owners to fulfil their duties and ensure transparency of their activities. I would like to point out that a grace period of over 4 months was also given in this regard, in which traders were entitled to synchronise their activities according to the new legal requirements. The inevitable benefit of this innovation is that it will be limited to the maximum possible entry into registered sites of illegal origin for the purpose of subsequent trade or processing. Since the beginning of the year to ensure the fulfilment of the requirements of this measure, 4500 inspections have been carried out at such sites, 200 of them have been closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u182	Thank you, Minister Taneva. Line, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u183	Madam Minister, I would like to draw particular attention to the area of the municipality of Samokov. The reason for this is that in the last week I get a bunch of pictures of naked clearings, i.e. totally cut down areas, plus pictures of carts with Roma population in them, constantly taking out and taking down some trees from there. In fact, it turns out that they have so little fear of the control organs that they allow, that is to say, they don't mind being photographed. My request is that you first pay particular attention to the Regional Forest Directorate and to the other authorities that are committed to the Samokov municipality area, because the residents are very worried, the signals are raining every day, and to say in relation to Sofia area when an inventory is scheduled to be made to see to what extent the illegal logging has reached and to what extent investment should be approached to recover areas that have been affected by this illegal logging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u184	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Minister Taneva, you have the opportunity for a duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u185	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Delchev! First, I want to advise you on the photos and signals you have to send to us, we check every single signal. The fact is that the area you mentioned is one of the areas with the most violations, especially the type you quoted, with the wagons. I should point out that I can agree with your finding that there is no fear, respect or responsibility to verifiers, including that we have made public knowledge and abuse, including on forest inspectors in carrying out their control duties. With regard to forest inventory, we must be aware that this cannot happen in one day. This is a process that is now starting and will last for more than a year. It can't happen sooner. That is why we are currently working on a relevant forestry plan, which has foreseen all of this. With regard to control, obviously more effort should be made on the ground. Only for the beginning of this year during the checks, which are around 6 thousand, 1500 tonnes is the illegal wood retained. What I would also like to say, regardless of the difficulties we have, because fighting illegal logging cannot be a single, single act or a single act, this is a consistent policy that must be implemented through legislation and through its application in the spirit of the Law on the field through farms and through regional directorates, as well as through society, we have done enough public system, including for the submission of signals. Despite the difficulties, these measures have resulted. For 2015, state-owned forest enterprises have shown the best results, best values of all indicators since the beginning of their creation. I can say that only the profits are six times higher than last year's and the revenues from the activity are about 40 million higher.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-18.u186	Thank you, dear Minister Taneva. As the time for parliamentary control is up today, it is over. Thank you for your participation. Have a good day. I hereby close today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
