ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register. Abort registration. The next attempt to make a statement at 9:15 p.m. There are MPs present in the Chamber, simply not registered. Discovered at 9:18 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u2	Second attempt to register on the quorum. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear MPs, today is the first Wednesday of December and our weekly program is formed according to the rule of art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, namely by proposals on behalf of parliamentary groups on the rotation of the groups. For this month are the first parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center of the People's Union. They have proposed accordingly this will be the first point for today: 1. First vote on the Bill to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers "Javor Haytov and a group of MPs. There are no proposals received from the groups of Atakas and ABBs. GERB's parliamentary group proposes and this is point two: 2. First vote on a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The parliamentary group BSP left Bulgaria is proposing and this is respectively point three: 3. First vote on the Public Enterprises Bill. Importers Mrs. Ninova and a group of MPs. There are no proposals received from the groups of the "Rights and Freedoms Movement", "Reformator block" and "Patriotic front". After the Conference of Presidents, we propose that the following points of the weekly programme be respectively: 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 5. Draft amending and supplementing the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act. Importers suppose Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, based on the laws adopted by the Council of Ministers, adopted in the first vote. Point 7 provided for as point 1 for tomorrow, Thursday 8 December 2016: 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the basis of the laws adopted in the first vote with importers Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev, Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs. 8. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 20 October 2016 and second draft of the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2016. This will be point two for tomorrow 8 December 2016. 9. First vote on a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 11. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 12. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement for the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Environment and Waters of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 13. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Insurance Code. Importers suppose Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. 14. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for today at 12:00. And the usual Friday parliamentary control: 15. Parliamentary control under art. 91-103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 128 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 22. The program for the week has been accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure was received a proposal from Mr. Velizar Enchev, who proposed at the meeting for today's meeting "7 December: I submit a proposal to include a point in the programme of the National Assembly meeting on 7 December 2016: We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u3	Madam President, honourable Members! I am referring to the inclusion of a item on the agenda for the weekly programme, not today. Dear colleagues, for the fourth time in the last two years, I stand on this platform to propose a item on the agenda in the weekly programme of parliament for a change in the Law on Political Parties, with which I change the state subsidy for a political party that received more than 1% in parliamentary elections, from BGN 11.00. for a vote to fall to BGN 5,00 for a given voice. For the fourth time, I will repeat my motives, and they are the following. In the European Union, the average subsidy for a vote in elections is 2 euros. In Bulgaria, the poorest country in the European Union, the highest subsidy rate of almost 6 euros. Therefore, I think it is morally reproachable and financially unfounded that the political parties in Bulgaria, who received more than 1% in parliamentary elections, will receive such a large subsidy. It is even weirder that in the State Budget Act, which we adopted last week, there was no proposal from any of the so-called "systemic parties" for a change in the financing of political parties and according to the state budget for the next year the state subsidy remains BGN 11.00, despite the expressed will of the Bulgarian citizens it will be reduced. Of course, and I immediately make a very important correction............................I do not agree with you at all with the proposal of the initiators of Slavi Trifonov's referendum to drop the state subsidy to one lev, or with the proposed by Prime Minister Borisov the state subsidy to be zero leva. In both cases, both of Slavi Trifonov and Mr. Borisov are essentially placed a red barrier in front of all political players who are outside this Parliament, as all of you who are in this Parliament have a huge state subsidy that prevents the emergence of new political formations. So today's vote for a item on the agenda will show whether the so-called "systemic" parties respect the vote of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u4	I put to the vote the proposal to include this point in our weekly programme. 140 MPs voted: 115, against 8, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. The other two proposals are included, so they will not be reported. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 30 November to 6 December this year: Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Tourism Organisation (SCT) on the implementation of the International Congress of World Civilizations and Modern Tourism. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. They will also look at it in the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will also see it. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. Importer "Metodi Andreev" and group of MPs. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. The Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy will see it. A bill ratifying the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the lead. It will also be seen by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft amending and supplementing the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act. Importer Dimitar Gechev. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. One message: The National Statistical Institute received information on gross domestic product in the third quarter of 2016, preliminary data: labour productivity, employed persons and spent time in the third quarter of 2016. The material is to the attention of the MPs at the Library of the Meeting. We start with a first point of the program, namely: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROLECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE CALLED PROCEEDING CODEX, No 554-01-177. Adopted by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. There's no report. We're listening to you, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the proposal put on the agenda of the National Assembly today is a change in the Code of Criminal Procedure of the Republic of Bulgaria. Our goal with this change is in a pre-trial phase of the criminal trial, crimes related to money laundering, tax crimes and crimes against the insurance system to be investigated by investigators. The investigation is currently being carried out by investigative police officers in the Ministry of Interior system. I've kept in front of me and I've been familiar with a detailed statistic for the last three or four years. It is clear from the same that whenever such pre-trial proceedings begin as an investigation by the employees of the Ministry of Interior, at a later stage the same is transformed and the work continues by investigators. All this leads to a delay in the investigation. Very often this delay leads to the concealment of traces. Very often in these crimes, which are complex in nature, there are elements of international criminal activity. And with our idea of investigating these crimes by investigators, we aim to improve quality, in the first place; next, to shorten the deadlines. Because very often we talk about the fact that in the last year, two or three, several billion more have been collected than smuggling, but I want to tell you that if we can stabilize the criminal process here in this part, it will inevitably increase the collection rate in our tax system. Please, honourable Members, when you vote for this bill, consider the following: an investigative police officer in the Ministry of Interior's system on average for one year has more than 100 pre-trial proceedings ahead of him. While one investigator, according to statistics, examines no more than 10 and there are cases where certain investigators from the district departments to prosecutors in the relevant areas investigate no more than two or three cases per year. In this way we lose one human potential, we lose the ability to burden these people and investigate qualitatively. I would like to point out that this proposal does not concern the customs crimes that we began our work, perhaps about a year ago, agreed to be investigated by customs inspectors at the Customs Agency at the Ministry of Finance. We are all interested in having financial discipline. Regardless of the ruling or opposition, the goal is all commercial companies, all natural persons in the proper order to pay their taxes, because, after all, when we start debating the subject budget, we always find that money is not enough. I therefore ask you to support this proposal. It is also in the spirit of the actions taken to curb smuggling and hence to raise funds in the state budget. But, once again, no less dangerous are these crimes related to money laundering, tax crimes and crimes against the insurance system because they violate the tax collection regime in the state budget and hence the inability to distribute them in a dignified way. The funds to reach all Bulgarian citizens. I ask you to support the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u6	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. This was an importer's opinion. We have heard the motives, the opinions of committees and, as it became clear, there is no. I'm opening the debate, fellow Members. Here you go, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I would very briefly add my observations to support the proposed amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. You have heard the motives of the importers and they are slenderly proposed, perfectly true and accurate as a reflection of a picture which we are faced with in the form of the existing texts of the Criminal Procedure Code, those who determine the competence of investigators and distribute the work between investigating officers and investigators. Out of the statistics that convince us that it is reasonable and necessary to carry out the proposed change, I would only say that the investigation of the group of crimes, which are proposed to become only possible as the subject of activity and work of investigators, really meets the practical and legal complexity criterion. There are no heavier, no more laborable, no more frequent cases than those listed in the Bill. Secondly, importers note that there is an imbalance in the workload of investigative police officers and investigators. This imbalance has been vividly expressed over the years and is indeed interfering with the quality of both work and others. If the proposed one is accepted, of course, this imbalance would be overcome, although naked numbers do not always reflect the essence of the work. Clearly, one case doesn't look alike. If one case with 20 or 40 volumes of material has to be compared with another which can be concluded within a month or two, then of course there is no clear idea of the amount of effort and work that the investigator has to invest. But by definition, the proposed cases are those that are heavy and that would be relevant to the smaller number of cases that reflect the workload of investigators. We're talking about the level of qualification here, and we're talking about something else. Then, when these lawsuits will have to be entrusted to the investigating authorities, we will achieve some specialization of these bodies and avoid the risk of, i.e. severe cases being assigned to incompetent or beginner investigators in this area, as could happen in the current context. In addition, further arguments are quite specialized and professional, but from now on I would ask you to take into account all that is at stake in the motives of the importers, and to have the conviction that this proposal is good, leads to an increase in the quality and the temporaryity of solving heavy cases, of which, of course, the system and the state and the citizens of Bulgaria have a certain need and benefit. I call on you to vote on the proposal of the importers, as presented to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u8	Thanks for the speech. - What's the line? I won't. Anyone who wants to make any other speeches? Mr. Kazak, you're making a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support this bill, not only because it is justified enough, but because it is our principle position from the time when legislative measures were taken years ago to implement some recommendations relating to the Chapter of Justice and Home Affairs, even at the time of negotiations for Bulgaria's accession to the European Union, and for this to completely empty the activities of the investigators, totally deprive them of powers for the benefit of the connoisseurs or the so-called investigative police. Even then, we were against it, since the Constitutional investigation is an integral part of the judiciary and it is entrusted with investigating cases, and it cannot be allowed in such a drastic way that people who are built as experts, as professionals in the field of criminal investigation, can be left unemployed in practical terms. Their work, including in such cases, with enormous factual and legal complexity, to be transferred to people who at that time had no legal education, had no experience in investigating much easier cases than those concerning the financial and insurance system, which require really broad knowledge, experience, routine, opportunity to compare facts and circumstances from different spheres and from different institutions. That's why we've been insisting, all the time, with investigators, that we remain the investigation of this kind of case. Naturally, in all these years they suffered many blows in terms of their motivation for work, in terms of their status, but nevertheless there was still a good enough personnel and expertise to be able to use it now to award these tasks, which are provided for in this Bill. I think that this is a good proposal, a good solution that will really improve the outcome, namely the preparation and presentation of court-appointed indictments with good evidence, which will eventually lead to conviction, and not as very often happens now. The investigations are now being rushed, deadlines are being pursued, schedules are being pursued, indictments are being presented to the court, not backed up with sufficient evidence, and ultimately follow acquittal decisions of the court. That has to change, and that's one way to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u10	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. My fellow Members, I am closing the debate and I am about to vote. We are voting for a bill to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure No 554-01-177, submitted by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs on 18 November 2015. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u11	Voted 118 MPs: 108, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Next item: In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. It's a report from the Legal Commission. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Please, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, for a procedure for admission in respect of Mrs. Krasimira Filipova, Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u13	We vote. Voted 103 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u14	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing The Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention, No 602-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 October 2016. At its meeting held on 15 November 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention, No 602-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 October 2016. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Minister of Justice, and Mrs. Krasimira Filipova, Deputy Minister. The bill was presented by Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, who pointed out that it was in implementation of a pilot decision of the European Court of Human Rights (ECJ) Neshkov and others against Bulgaria. It aims at the court's conviction to determine only the initial regime of the punishment, depending on the punishment imposed and the person of the child. It is envisaged that the Director General of the General Directorate of Punishment (GDIN) will ensure the initial distribution of prisoners by his own orders. The Bill sets requirements for the type of prison facility determined according to the original regime, the territorial distribution, which is subject to the objectives of meeting the minimum standard for living area in the sleeping room, which cannot be less than 4 sq. m, in line with current data on available capacity and abundance. The condemned shall be given the opportunity to endure the penalty as close as possible to his residence in order to preserve his family contacts. It is possible that the Director-General of DGIN, when establishing overcrowding in a given place, should regulate the process with the removal of prisoners, taking into account their desire. Any transfer which is not requested by a person who is deprived of liberty shall be subject to an appeal before the Administrative Court accordingly. A suspension of the Commission's work on the execution of penalties to each prison is proposed and its powers will be taken over by the head of the prison concerned, who will take into account the views of the head of the direction of social and educational work, of the deputy head of the regime security activity and of the head of the prison hostel concerned, where the convicted person puts up his sentence. This extension of the prison chief's powers is in line with the European prison rules, with the aim of ensuring more speed and operationalness. There is a mandatory study for professional and psychological suitability of candidates for civil servants who are directly carrying out enforcement activities or the non-detention measure under guard, in the Directorate-General for Punishment and in its territorial services, including a psychological study and a polyphysiographic test. People's representatives Hamid Hamid and Petar Slavov took part in the discussion, who expressed their support for the Bill. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers, without the opposition and 3 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to support a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention, No 602-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u15	The debate is open. Are there any MPs who wish to take part in it? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u16	Dear Madam President, Vice Minister, honourable Members! I will begin with the agreement that I am not an expert, I am even quite far from the activities, from the problems of execution of the punishment.. deprivation of freedom.. but after on 3 October this year the bill was submitted by the Council of Ministers with good intentions and objectives, I hope I have made a number of meetings with people who are directly, directly, directly carrying out the activities of execution of the sentence. All expressed a position that the proposals in the Bill do not correspond with the realities, good practices and working mechanisms proven in the years. I think, and so it is right that when reforms are being made, they should be implemented after a serious discussion of current problems and trends, not only in sync with international requirements and realities in the country, but also with the direct participation of experts and specialists working in the field who are immersed in harsh reality and problems. As far as I know, these people have had a lot of suggestions, but none of them have been taken into account in shaping the bill. This leads me to take the floor and present some of their views, because the execution of penalties is a state action with a decisive role in countering crime and prison, as an institution, is a complex structure, a small model of our society. I do not have the illusion that in prison places everything is fine, because the world in which we live and the shifting of layers in political, economic and social aspects also affect them and require the introduction of new and modern models of treatment. The prison system in Bulgaria, as well as the enforcement of penalties, undoubtedly need to continue the reforms launched in 1989, although since then a number of changes have been made according to international requirements and standards. However, if we respond with this Bill, with these proposals to the expectations for reforms and do not delete the mechanism of the progressive system, in which the convicted persons are gradually subject to mitigation of the working conditions and regime according to the purposes of the punishment set out in art. 36 of the Penal Code, namely: first, to correct and re-educate the condemned to obey the laws and the good manners; second, to act warningly on it and to take away the opportunity to commit other crimes; and third, to effect discipline and warning on other members of society? The progressive system established according to the English model is applied in all European prisons and has proven its universality and effectiveness over the years. In me, it is even more important that there remains a feeling in those working in the system and even a confidence that if the bill is adopted in this form, it will lead to the inability of the administration in places of imprisonment for adequate performance of the duties, which will harm the rights and interests of both the imprisoned and the administration and the whole society. I'm going to try to essentially pass on some of the objections. First of all, a weakness and impeccable move in the Bill is the abolition of the Commission on the execution of penalties on the ground and the transfer of duties to the Chief of Prison. This Commission is a collective body. It has proven itself in practice and in time as working on clear, transparent procedures and rules. Why are you erasing the Commission? The motive that these changes will implement the European rules on prisons in their part that the prison administration must ensure that at any given time the prison is under the full management of the chief, deputy chief or other authorised officer is untenable and unfounded, as the Commission is chaired by the head of the prison and in this role he has sufficient authority to fully exercise the management and management of his entrusted institution. Next, with the proposed changes to replace the regime and subsequent accommodation in an outdoor-type prison hostel liberalizes accommodation, but, on the other hand, will lead to a number of serious problems. Accommodation in an outdoor-type prison hostel will make it difficult for the execution of the penalties due to the expected high number of convicted by the Open-type category and the inability to meet the legal requirements for a minimum of 4 sq. I'm a prisoner. This will lead to a reduction of residents in prison, but, on the other hand, will overpopulate outdoor-type establishments. The removal of a significant number of repeaters in an open-ended type in light supervision and security will inevitably lead to an increase in the number of escapes, diversions from the workplaces and committing crimes during the execution of the punishment, which, in turn, is a prerequisite for worsening the criminogenic environment in the area and disturbing the public interest and calmness of citizens. There will also be problems with employment. At the moment, it is only possible to provide work for almost all prisoners in the summer season, and after the removal of a significant number of convicts in prison dormitories of open-air employment at best will be a third of the people staying there. The question arises: how will other prisoners be affected, for whom there will be no opportunity to engage in employment? Next, I will mention the changes to those sentenced to life imprisonment, which are also unacceptable. The deadline for the replacement of the regime from special to strict is too short to assess the extent to which positive changes have occurred in the behaviour of the convicted person for life, resulting in removal into common premises, given the severity of the crime committed and the amount of punishment imposed. As an example of comparison, it can be pointed out that an incarcerated person sentenced to eight years in prison is entitled to the replacement of the regime in a lighter one after two years, while for the life sentence, that right is foreseen after one year, which unduly aggravates the situation of the temporary convicted, which is the main part of the prison. Regarding the proposed amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which concern the Institute of conditional early release, the opinion of the experts is that the proposals and the very conditional early release are the greatest evidence for the execution of the objectives of the sentence. 36 of the penal code I quoted. However, the repeated use of this institute is contrary to the criminogenic situation in the country, increased domestic crime and does not correspond to the objectives set in art. 36 of the penal code. For criticism are also the changes provided for in paragraphs 14 and 46 of the Project, where it is envisaged to change the attestation of all civil servants holding positions in the Directorate-General for Punishment and its territorial divisions, with a psychological study and a polyphysiographic test or a polygraph or lie detector. These tests put employees in a position of guilt until proven guilty. These people have proven professionalism and integrity with their work. This is how their prestige and authority are damaged. This lie detector thing looks like it was borrowed from some American action guy. The reasons for the project do not make it clear what requires this procedure to be applied. A number of questions arise that have no logical answers, such as: what is the purpose and where is the logic in subjecting this test to employees? Is there a vision of what the consequences will be? What respect will the servants have for those imprisoned? How moral and ethical is it to put the employee in this position? Moreover, in the Republic of Bulgaria no state institution uses the lie detector as a method for working with the staff. This tool is used only at the Institute of the Ministry of Interior in the detection of serious criminal offences. And here's the question: are employees criminals by presumption? And another question: why is the selection and study of the professional and psychological suitability of the employees being taken out of the system of the Directorate-General for Punishment and entrusted to an external organisation? Doesn't this create an opportunity to use this information for purposes other than those provided for in the Law? This external organisation will be subjected to increased corruption pressure, which exists at the moment, but with this difference that the psychologists of the Directorate General can be sought disciplinary, administrative, criminal and any other responsibility and the external organisation cannot be sought. Last but not least, the new order envisaged in the proposals for selection and examination of the professional and psychological suitability of employees will lead to the leakage of significant financial resources from the state budget to private organisations, and it would be wiser to focus on improving prison conditions and training programmes for employees. There are problems with the proposed amendments in art. 3, and in particular by dropping the expression "intentionally" from the main text. This withdrawal is not necessary and is not justified. And when we talk about this article. 3, especially para. 2 of the Project, for the increased requirements and the wording of the adverse conditions for suffering punishments, we should be aware that at the moment the material base of the prisons cannot in any way meet the increased requirements. In conclusion, I will quote almost verbatim the opinion on the Bill of the people with whom I met and who do not care what happens in prison. They say: The prison system is a complex hierarchic structure, with leading components of law, security and re-socialization, which implies that any change in the levels and specifics of activity will be preceded by a functional analysis of the system, made clear criteria for taking into account efficiency and giving a prognostic assessment. It is not clear from those reasons how and how legal changes will affect the level of security in prisons and re-socialisation processes. In view of everything I have said and what I have listed so far, it is essential that the texts be subject to a new discussion and in-depth analysis by a working group involving employees whose professional duties are directly, immediately linked to the application of penalties. From these meetings, I was convinced that the bill in this form could not be supported, at least by me and my parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u17	Any lines to Mr. Gokov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill for the execution of penalties and detentions as proposed amendments to it and as a philosophy can be said to be justified, good and correct. However, the problem of this Bill is the Transitional and Final Provisions and the changes proposed to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code. First of all, I do not think that it is a good idea to make such changes through Transitional and Final Provisions, but not to draw up a separate draft amendment and supplement to the NKK and the PPC, so that these proposals can be subjected to detailed and detailed discussion. What's this about? First of all, with the Law, we introduce, in my view, an unjustified relief in terms of the early release of the so-called young people from 18 to 21 years of age. It is not clear, there are not enough well-exposed motives why the proposer, in this case the Deputy Council of Ministers, is headed towards this group and not towards the group, for example, between 21 and 23 years. For those individuals who, for example, have quite a history of anti-social acts such as minors, and perhaps they have committed such crimes, we create relief in the possibility of early release, while for the other group that is quite close to it as age, such reliefs do not exist. Personally, it is not clear to me on what basis it is being done and why it is considered to be some individuals who have just reached an age, on the one hand, on the other hand, we believe that they are capable, that they can understand the property and importance of what they have done, to enjoy such a privilege. The privileges, reliefs should stop until the age of age. After the age of age, everyone must be held responsible for their actions and actions, which I believe are not acceptable here. In the same way is the issue of the current legal regulation, which does not allow re-appliance of the Institute for Conditional Exemption to the convicted persons who have already used it, unless they have been rehabilitated for the crime, from the punishment for which they have been released in advance. The proposed changes provide for this limitation to be dropped, with the possibility of obtaining a conditional early release in fact extending to all those sentenced to imprisonment with which it is intended, so it is stated in the reasoning that the re-trials should be stimulated to seek a claim. It is not clear here what, why such drastic change is envisaged with the dropping of this restriction that currently exists. In practice, we will encourage individuals who commit a crime, namely relapses, in a complex criminogenic environment in which we find ourselves, to be conditionally released to infinity. Given that these individuals have had the opportunity to take advantage of and are given the opportunity to take advantage of this institute, we should not be surprised, since repeaters have long mastered and adopted this course in the relevant prison facility, which will provide them with an assessment that will lead to their further early parole. With ease, in practice, rather than defending society and victims of crime, we seem to be throwing ourselves in the other direction to defend the offenders and perpetrators of such acts. Something that I think is absolutely unacceptable. In this part of it, the bill cannot be supported. In the same way are the changes relating to the time limits in which the warden of the prison is pronounced upon change to ease the measures of the persons who are sentenced to life imprisonment. Similarly, there are other amendments included in the amendments to the Penal Code, to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is why I believe that, if this Bill is adopted, between first and second readings, there must be a very serious revision of these texts, which are included in the Transitional and Final Provisions, perhaps in order not to focus the attention of the Members of the National Assembly on this part of the Bill, which, however, substantially changes, on the one hand, criminal policy, on the other hand, those institutes which have been implemented for many years and have given their result in the fight against crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Hamid, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Members of Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the proposed Draft. We support and support the implementation of the pilot decision "Neshkov vs. Bulgaria " of the European Court of Human Rights, but, as my colleague Gokov said, and my colleague Mitev, there are a lot of problems in the bill. On the one hand, in implementing this pilot decision, following the numerous visits of the Council of Europe's Torture Committee to Bulgaria and establishing the conditions for the execution of penalties in our prisons, we implement their recommendations and this pilot decision we restrict, in my opinion, to extremes, the ability of the guards to intervene in the conduct of prisoners. As I was able to jokely say at a Commission meeting, we are turning prison guards into children's teachers, that is, a requirement to prove an absolute need for intervention is introduced. Let us understand, however, that in Bulgarian prisons punishment do not tolerate small children, there are also recedivists, as Mr. Mitev mentioned, who have mastered quite well different primos. For first reading there were quite sharp opinions from a number of directors of Bulgarian prisons about the increased requirements regarding employment in prisons. I think this is not the right approach to increase requirements in order to maintain better qualifications. The correct approach is to create competition by increasing the wages of the employees in Bulgarian prisons. It is the only way to achieve a better competitive environment and a better administration. Between first and second readings, we will submit our proposals. We cannot agree with extreme subjectivism with the annulment of the Commission on the execution of penalties to each prison. From now on, every prison warden will make his own decisions. He'll offer his own parole. I think that's how any chief would have insured himself, and in order not to make a mistake, this parole mechanism would have blocked. That is, in order not to make a mistake, the warden of the prison will not offer any prisoners, so we will propose that the Punishment Commission remain as an authority. We will submit our proposals, and now we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u21	Any lines to Mr. Hamid? They don't want to replicate. Any other MPs for a statement? Here you go, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! I will be very brief in my attempt to support the Bill at least at first reading. There is something that could lead us to make a bigger mistake than supporting the Bill with all the reservations that colleagues have spoken about so far, and it is not to support it. If we don't accept this bill, things are still the same, and that doesn't sound like it, and it doesn't look good. More precisely, the concerns of the way the amendments to the Law are proposed and formulated have already been said. Concerns were raised about the removal of the Commission for the implementation of penalties, concerns were raised that employment, discipline in places of imprisonment and a number of other failures, which years, decades of practice in the respective places could not be ensured. These vices, these problems have not been overcome under the current Law. Therefore, to open the topic and make an attempt to solve them is a good solution. That's the direction to think. And by sharing these legal and technical remarks, which were made by Mr. Mitev, namely the introduction of amendments through the Transitional and Final Provisions of this Law in the Codes of Laws, the founding laws of Criminal Code, Criminal Procedure Code, these are issues which should find their attitude and decision in the process of the adoption of the Law, and in particular in the period between first and second readings. We will have the opportunity to make such proposals, and we will, respectively, make them in the name of improving and elevating the design of importers to another level that will allow the institutions of penal policy to be used in terms of prisoners. There is something to be done there, there is something to aim and pursue both in the re-education process and in correcting those who have fallen into prisons. This could not have become a practical objective if we did not give the Law a move with its vote at first reading. We will support the Law at first reading, with the corresponding proposals between the two readings, for its final adoption by parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u23	Any lines to Mr. Notev? I won't. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u24	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! My speech will be extremely brief in relation to this Bill. I would like to state our support to the Bill and appeal to all my fellow Members to support it. It is a serious step in the experience and in our desire to meet the standard and requirements of European legislation to guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens, including a particular category of persons... the suffering punishment.. deprivation of liberty................................................................................ As has been pointed out, we are fulfilling the requirements of a European Court of Justice pilot decision. Unfortunately, this practice subsequently continued. Indeed, the situation in the places for suffering the punishment for being deprived of liberty was very bad, extremely bad, but here I would like to point out that in fulfilling the commitments that the Bulgarian state had adopted, the implementation of a programme was started in order to meet the standards and requirements. I express my gratitude to the efforts of the Ministry of Justice, as well as to Mrs Grozdanova as the leader of our delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which had the heavy responsibility to defend the Bulgarian position, to convince our European partners that we will not only promise, but we will find powers and opportunities, despite the lack of financial resources, to improve the conditions in the places for suffering the punishment. I believe that these efforts have been used twice as well as the Bulgarian Deligration in PACE, as well as the Bulgarian Ministry of Justice, and for this reason we have made serious progress. With regard to the mechanisms and decisions provided in this bill, I personally support them fully. That is to say, I believe that their idea to have flexibility and respect for the specific status of the person who is deprived of liberty and its development in relation to the educational and preventive activities which he has endured in the prison concerned, and I believe that it is fair and that administrative control is envisaged in some cases of opposition to the will and desire of the person who suffers the punishment of imprisonment. I would be happy to have time and opportunity to discuss all the proposals between first and second readings. For this reason, I will refrain from offering your attention a different period of time for the proposals between first and second readings, and I propose that we remain on the one in the Rules for seven days, that is, neither shortening it nor prolonging it. I hope that we will succeed within this Parliament in adopting amendments, modified accordingly according to all the reasoned proposals and assumptions, and we will have this legislative act, which will be an essential step in taking account of the fulfilment of European requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u25	Any lines to Mr. Kirilov? First line, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kirilov, you rightly said that we are closing a lot of repairs in our prisons, in prisons, but to clarify that all this is thanks only to the favor of the Norwegian government. All these funds, all these repairs are provided under the so-called Norwegian mechanism. I ask you not to take this line personally to you, but to every Finance Minister of Bulgaria and Bulgaria to contribute to maintaining the places of imprisonment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u27	Second line? A hole, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u28	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Hamid, thank you for the line, because it gives me the opportunity to highlight another circumstance. Apart from the Norwegian mechanism, which, I would say, is successfully involved and involved in the possibility of fulfilling these requirements, we are in opposing political ones, that is, whether or not we are ruling and opposition we have always been on the same side when we have debated and asked for additional funds from the budget precisely with regard to the Prison Renewal Program and for improving the conditions in the prison case. But you're wrong that we didn't get support from the Ministry of Finance, that is, the Republican budget. I believe that such support was obtained as far as possible. In the last budget, if I am not mistaken, our support was over a million and a half, even greater points out to me by the Deputy Minister of Justice, and in any case the national budget has provided the necessary form of co-financing in case we manage to attract European project funds. This must be the next step we need to take to improve prison conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u29	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber, a vote is yet to be taken. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention, No 602-01-55, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 October 2016. Vote 117 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. The bill was passed at first reading. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLICS, No 654-01-94 of 20 July 2016 Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Health. No reports have been submitted. On behalf of the importers, the bill will be presented by Mr. Stoinev. We're listening, Mr. Stoinev. You have ten minutes to present the bill to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Perhaps it should not surprise you that there are no reports of the committees. It was nice to have the relevant committees together from July 20th to discuss a bill which I am convinced is in favor of the Bulgarian economy, and I believe that absolutely all of you agree to have greater efficiency in the work of both state and municipal enterprises. This is precisely one of the main motives of this Bill and also to meet the criteria of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Unfortunately, Bulgaria is not yet a member of this organisation as a Member State of the European Union. Perhaps there is no other country that is not a member. I believe that it is with this bill that we will support this membership. One of the main recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development are the following: Firstly, the legal and regulatory framework for state and municipal enterprises must ensure equal conditions on the markets in which the same private sector is in competition in order to avoid any distortions in the market. This framework must be based and fully compatible with the corporate governance principles of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Secondly, the State must act as an informed and active owner and establish a clear and consistent policy, ensuring that the management of state-owned enterprises is carried out in a transparent, noticeable and responsible manner, with the necessary level of professionalism and efficiency. Thirdly, the State and state-owned enterprises recognise the rights of all shareholders and ensure their equal treatment and access to corporate information. Fourth, the policy of state and municipal property must fully recognise the responsibilities of state and municipal enterprises to the stakeholders and require them to report on their relationship with them. Fifthly, state and municipal enterprises must respect all standards of transparency in their relations with public authorities in accordance with European Union requirements. Of course, I believe that if this bill is adopted, a huge part of the requirements of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development will be achieved, I would even say, absolutely all recommendations, but the aim will be indeed for a better management of public resources. The adoption of the bill aims at: First, to synchronise, summarize and align appropriately the existing in a number of laws, regulations, regulations, regulations and other acts of different ranking regulations of the management of state or municipal participation in commercial companies, state enterprises under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, companies in which they have sole or majority participation, or in which public and legal organisations are involved. Secondly, in principle, define and outline the areas in which state-owned enterprises will exist and operate the main activities related to the achievement of, apart from economic and social objectives, the award of the provision of the public service and those operating with significant and important public resources, public ownership, in the form of infrastructure and strategic sites. Thirdly, to further develop the legal order for the formation and implementation of state policy regarding state and municipal enterprises, to establish a legal basis for conducting open procedures for nomination, discussion of applications and transparent selection of competent guides. I repeat once again: create a legal basis for conducting open nomination procedures, discussing applications and transparent selection of competent guides. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that from now on, if you agree to accept this Law, the political pressure on the management of state-owned companies will disappear. There will be only and only professionals who will really struggle to form a profit. This profit will remain either in the municipality or in the State, and will thus form a state-owned capital. Fourth, to integrate the existing legislation-based arrangements for monitoring, analysis, control and reporting of the results of the activities of public businesses, both for the timely reporting of the occurrence of financial difficulties, respectively carrying out recovery procedures, and for the transparency of State relations, municipalities, public-law organisations with those entities, including in control and compliance with the European Union's requirements for non-State aid. Fifthly, to establish a regulation which obliges public undertakings to apply to a much greater extent and informally the criteria for economic behaviour, accountability, control and transparency developed in documents of the European Union and of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, as well as an appropriate part of the higher requirements for the activity of public undertakings within the meaning of the Public Offering of Securities Act. Sixth, overcome the cyclical decapitalisation of public companies and create conditions for their sustainable development, planning investment costs of own income and competitive development under public trust and control conditions. I believe that it is with this bill that I have no claim that it should not be changed between first and second readings, a much better competitive environment can be created in which state and municipal enterprises can work. It is high time to remove the political pressure from the management of these enterprises. They should start working fully on a market basis, be responsible for spending public and public financial resources and really create conditions for employment and economic growth. There are many examples in the European Union, in the world too. Perhaps at a later stage I will show you what are the examples of the world and how these businesses work. I believe that this is a hole in the Bulgarian legislation. I believe that really great abuses are being committed there, and once and for all, if we want the state to have a strong economy, albeit based on both state and municipal enterprises, they will work, I repeat, entirely on a market basis, without this first step we will not pass. In no way will our membership of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development be accepted if we do not have the basis that we propose with this bill. It is good to receive support for this Bill, although between first and second reading it is further developed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u31	Excuse me, Mr. Stoinev, for interrupting. Then you'll continue. Dear Members of Parliament, let's congratulate the students from the National Military University "Vasil Levski" "Veliko Tarnovo," who were our guests and followed Parliament's debate today. [[Applause.]] You may proceed, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I am counting on your mind here not to divide ourselves into a party principle, but to think about the economy of the country, about the management of state and municipal property, in order to achieve the quality that has already been achieved in other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u33	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. The debate is open. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u34	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I asked, if possible, to be the first to take the floor on two grounds. First, to comment on the following circumstance. There is no reason why this bill is not discussed by any of the permanent parliamentary committees. I thought only the Legal Committee didn't discuss it, but it turns out that none of the committees submitted a report on this bill. Secondly, to explain the probable reason for the reluctance of parliamentary committees to discuss such a bill. Mr. Stoynev's representative said there was a hole in the legislation. That's not true about the hole. There is no such gap in legislation, rather we have a general misunderstanding of the legislative solution. It's not from this parliament, it's not from the last one, it's not from the Fortyth National Assembly. It is much further back in time. I would say that this regime is probably from 1997. The mode is as follows. We have common rules and the status of companies established in the Commercial Law. In accordance with these general rules, all our entities are equal on the market. Mr. Stoinev, equality is the first guarantee to have a normal market. Yes, there are very small legal norms to give the specifics of state and municipal companies. There are only two rules that allow the state and municipalities to form commercial companies, respectively state and municipal enterprises. Without commenting in depth on the grounds of the legislator 15 years ago to establish this order, it seems logical to me because the specific rules find their development for state-owned companies in the Rules of Procedure for the exercise of state rights in commercial companies with state participation in capital. This regulation is a rule of law. So far, there have been five or six rules with different order of words in this long name. These rules contained similar, not to say the same decisions with regard to the requirements for the management and control of state participation in state-owned companies. For municipal companies, the arrangements were in the Municipal Property Act, I would also say "Blanquetskatna", with no more than one or two rules in the respective rules of the respective municipality for the order for management of the rights of the municipality "X" in the relevant commercial company. I have some pride as a former municipal councillor and chairman of the Economic Commission in the municipality.... in this Bill You have copied in most part the Ordinance of Sofia Municipality, which was adopted at the time of GERB. If you want, I'll tell you how and under what conditions it was accepted, what boards we found. We found boards of seven members, including poets, sociologists and all kinds of specialists, but not specialists in the economy, business or trade law. Then I'd call them "Municipal companies 7 times 7" 7 people with 7 grand each. lv. monthly salary. There were scouts there. The municipal economy fed the so-called boarders convincingly. Then we made a reduction. That was the first time we made competition terms. This was the first time that we obliged all the commercial companies in Sofia Municipality to conduct a competition for the selection of the members of the management bodies in the commercial companies. Let us not take away the rights of municipalities to manage their companies. As we have suggested now, we are putting state and municipal enterprises together. We say that all of this will be regulated by one law.. the state and municipal companies will follow one regime. Yes, but this is how we take away the essence of local self-government, the ability of the individual municipality to conduct economic policy or to solve economic problems. In addition, there is a disproved idea of commercial socialism in the institutional economy. Companies that are public and municipal must be typical companies. The idea that they will perform some social activity, I think it has long been denied by practice. They don't do social work. The only specific commercial companies that are municipal and state-owned are medical establishments, including DCCs, hospitals and rehabilitation centres. But you see that they follow the specifics of their activities under their law. I'd say she's being strictly followed. However, it became unnatural for medical institutions to measure them by profit. It is clear that for the most part they have no profit, but if they are managed well, the income they have received successfully invest it in the quality of the medical service. I would also strongly object to principled discrepancies. You are freely handling the notions of public offering, public company. It turns out that almost all state and municipal enterprises are entities that follow the regulatory regime of the Law on Public Offering of Securities. If that's the idea, let's do it. Let all state and municipal companies list them in a separate segment of the stock exchange, but we cannot sell them their shares. All our other legislation and European directives ruled out the possibility of state and municipal companies here you have recorded here to operate with public property properties. Turn that off. That's why we argued under the concession law. In this there must be a concessional regime or we must explicitly create in other laws clear rules when the state and municipal enterprise operate the public entity. Here I see colleagues from Sofia Municipality. Remember how big our problem has been for almost 15 years Parking and garages and the Sofia City Mobility Centre, which operates part of the road lane. I thank this Parliament that we have all found willpower for parking, we have made a decision and there is some regulation. But this is just for this case. I would say that the lawmaker's policy in this direction should continue and be said for the other objects which are public government property, what is the specific and the regime of their management. I would comment on many details on legislative decisions, but it seems to me that it is not in principle entirely appropriate to codify this regime and that we will be wrong. And for trying to follow our achievements from 7 years ago to 8 - 9 years ago, I would like to ask: how did Mr. Rumen Ovcharov and Mr. Rumen Ovcharov, as Minister of Economy, appoint the current Chairman of your parliamentary group as a member of the board of your Parliament? [[Laughter, cheer and applause at GERB.]] Did you have a pre-selection? Did you have a contest? Or was it just an order to appoint a deputy minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u35	- What's the line? Nobody does.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u36	There is nothing to say in these arguments!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u37	Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I expected more people to join the debate on this bill because it is important. The bill isn't just a thought. This is a recommendation from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. If we do not impose rules in municipal enterprises and in the public sector, we will never be members of this organisation. And all the economists here in this room understand how important it is. Maybe you're right I said we had a hole. We've got a void! There's definitely a gap in this legislation. The question here is not who or how he appointed in time. Because, as you set an example, so I can tell how Mr. Dobrev hired the people, how I appointed them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u39	How, how?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u40	It is therefore important that we put together once and for all, ladies and gentlemen, a contestant start. Moreover, BSP has never run the Sofia Municipality. What has happened there is a question that other political forces must answer. Here you have to state the following: are you continuing to make changes, as the other day the Kintex Board is changing without anyone knowing what the reason is?! How is the management, for example, changed by the NPP "Kozloduy" or by the Bulgarian Energy Holding, or by the Bulgarian Energy Holding, or by Sopot, provided that some of these enterprises work well and make a profit?! After all, we have a shift, without any explanation, without having a competition start! I said from the very beginning the idea is to lay down principles. Between first and second readings, many things can be cleared, good things can be offered. I have no claim that this is the fullness of this bill, but this is indeed the basis. We cannot continue to run these businesses in this way. I ask: if we deny everything, why are more and more global enterprises occupying more leading places in world rankings? Note if in 2005. The 50 largest global enterprises in the world were zero, now there are 12. Among them, I quote:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ These are all state-owned enterprises. They work on a market basis. Let's go to the Forbes. The 500 largest corporations in the world. If in 2004 there were 67 state corporations, now we're talking 136. After all, let us start and understand that in these enterprises not the municipal council or the mayor to say who is appointed, not a certain minister to say, as is happening now, what to change, but to have clarity and transparency. It's no coincidence that I appeal for this publicity. Let me be clear. Let's get the results out. Let people know what happens in these enterprises. Someone will say: "There are almost socialist ideas coming back here. Maybe so, but for example in Finland 55 state-owned enterprises form 35% of gross national product. There we are talking about gross national product because they are much more active internationally. In France, 100 enterprises create 33% of the gross national product; in Germany, 37 state-owned enterprises form 54% of the gross national product; in Italy, 25 enterprises form 24% of the gross national product; in the Netherlands, 26 enterprises form 23%; in Poland, 1189 enterprises form 58%; in Spain, 40 enterprises form 38% of the gross national product; in the UK, 80 enterprises form 18%. We're under 10%. Let him have good practice. Let whoever wants a vision to offer, but once and for all, order should be put if we want to have businesses to work. And I ask: why don't we have a state-owned company like Telenor?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u41	There was a BTC!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u42	Only we can't get out of the country! [[Strong noise in GERB.]] Leave this politics alone! Let's look forward, people! Let's think about why there is no enterprise to conquer markets in the Balkans. Why don't we have a corporation that can be with professionals, managers, who can only be replaced by the results, according to their business plan?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u43	When you were in charge, why didn't you do these things?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u44	That's what's available. Let other suggestions be heard between first and second readings. It is high time for all of us to think together about the Bulgarian economy, about these enterprises. This is the wish of our parliamentary group. This bill would have been passed a few years ago, but we didn't have time. That's why I insist that there is such a bill. It is not the Bill of BSP, of ABB, of BDZ, of GERB or of This is a proposal for the Bulgarian economy. We cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that the state and municipal sectors do not exist, that they do not generate income, that they do not generate capital to stay here, and not as they do at the moment large corporations do to export it out. We cannot have an economy that relies solely on European funds! That's what it is. Here it was like this, there it was. All right, we get together, we change. After all, this is the idea! Here I say again, it's not about some narrow party interest, it's about national interest. Do we want order there, or don't we? Or do we just keep doing it the same way? And now we all have to wait for the Trade Register to know who will be the new Board of Directors of Kintex?! Why?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u45	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Are there any lines to this geoeconomic review combined with a call? [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] Here's your first line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is the last time I take the floor to make a brief reply to Mr. Stoinev. There's no emptiness, Mr. Stoinev. I guess you didn't understand me either. This regime for municipal companies must remain as before. It must remain in the autonomy of the municipalities. Believe me, that's why I gave you as an example the ordinance of the Sofia Municipality. It is much better and more perfect than the legislative decisions that you are proposing here. I'd like to ask the following question. You say how good this is. My question is: although the Ministry of Interior is not my matter, I remember the debates on the case of the Ministry of Interior and the formation of state enterprises in the Ministry of Interior. I remember then the thesis and the words of Mr. Yankov and other representatives of yours how absurd it is to delegate authority to a state-owned company or a state-owned company. This was your main counterthesis under the Ministry of Interior Act. In this Bill you are actually developing a completely reverse approach and I wonder what is true? You can't go to the Ministry of Interior, but here you can. Seems to me that's actually a different target. My first reading on this bill was: what do you want to do in energy, what problem in energy? What is the idea, what is the key legal rule that you want to intervent there? I don't believe the unification thesis, you know! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I won't. Dear Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, don't look for the sector here. It is only one part of the ideas we have about the overall management of these enterprises. Of course there are problems there too. There is no one here to say that there are no specific problems. There are some things that do not happen entirely in a transparent way. Sometimes there are no principles. I'm talking about absolutely all the political powers. It is good to have transparency to restore trust not so much, of course, especially to Bulgarian citizens, but also to foreign citizens. Because this sector needs funding. There are high expectations for this sector. Personally, I've been going around doing roadshaws when you first stepped on the debt market. I've really seen how these businesses are viewed. In the end, in order to break this little distrust, we must bring real professionalism inside. And this is done through a competition beginning, through business plans, through overall transparency. Why not further develop some other measures in the future so that other investors can be part of the management of these companies? What's wrong with that? After all, we want them to be stable because they are strategic, they are important, they bring stability. There's nothing wrong with that. We're talking about other businesses here, too. The case is in the community. But I ask: is this typical of other municipalities, as you boast so much of Sofia Municipality for example? [[Heckling]] I don't think so. It's not like that! It's not like that! You know that very well. I'm here for uniformity, but to take these people away from political pressure, to be pros. These enterprises should operate on a market basis. I assure you, indeed, the profits will be much greater than those at the moment. However, these profits remain here in the country. This economy after 2020 must develop on another principle, not the European funds. In the world, they do. It's a matter of desire to do the same. Otherwise, the management changes, the mayor changes, people get cut off, new ones get appointed. And we're back to normal. Do we all unite? There are imperfections. There is, clean them up, I agree. Let's sit down and clean them up. Let us, however, once and for all put order in enterprises that are more than 50% municipal and state-owned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u49	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Any other speeches? People's representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Stoinev! The motives presented to us by colleague Stoinev sound very good, at least as he tells us. The question is, however, will we be able to achieve the goals that importers set with this bill? The main objective of this Bill is to have a competitive start in the appointment of the board of directors, of executive directors of state-owned companies. This in itself will achieve nothing, because in the end this competition for people will have a competition procedure, some tests, some interview and eventually these candidates will go back to the minister for an interview and the minister will appoint whomever he chooses from these candidates. On the other hand, he has mandates now. So what if he has mandates? The term of office may be terminated at any time. The bigger problem is not that you can adjust again, so to speak, the competitions will still have competitions, which is some progress. The problem is that this bill does not particularly help the better management of state-owned companies. What is most lacking in state-owned companies is transparency, efficiency and cost efficiency. That the Executive Director will be elected by competition even if this Executive Director is honestly elected by competition and has a mandate on which he can rely, this will not guarantee that we will have greater transparency in the sector, that businesses will be better managed and earn better, because he himself will not guarantee that transparency. He's gonna get his hands on the unions right now and they're gonna say, "You're here until we strike." You're not going to make any reforms. We have to protect all 7,700 people who are appointed, we even have to hire a little more if you still want to be the director. They'll be interested in working clothes, shoes, food, transportation and so on. Mr. Stoinev is shaking his head because he knows exactly what I'm talking about. This Bill itself will not solve the problem of effective management of state-owned enterprises. Yes, they can be much more profitable. Yes, they can cut costs and be effective if not the private at least much closer to private businesses. Only that won't happen with the appointment even with a contest by any director. Rather, what needs to be done here I am not only talking about energy enterprises, what needs to be done is partially, with a small percentage of 10-15-20% to release from these companies on the capital market in Bulgaria. That way we'll get a lot of goals. Here is an example: CEZ, a Czech company, but on the capital market in it are investors pension funds. Why not allow Bulgarian pension funds that have already generated 10 billion leva in their portfolios to invest on the capital market in these companies that make sense? On the one hand, we will give them the opportunity to get higher profitability for the invested funds instead of investing them in government securities in Germany, for example, which are close to zero yields, will invest them on the capital market in Bulgaria in Sopot, for example, which has record profits for this year. Why don't they invest five, ten or fifteen percent of the money? Who's gonna profit from this? Everybody's gonna win. He will win the capital market in Bulgaria, which is not there, will win the pension companies and will mostly win the people because they will have a higher yield against the funds. How will we ensure better governance in companies in this way? We will ensure it very simple, because anything that is wrong and which is not an effective spending of the company's funds will be immediately lit. Even a shareholder with 1% for each thing he notices, taking part in the board of directors of this company, will make such a scandal that no director will afford to do it..................... whether he is appointed by competition or without competition, no one will afford to do so because he will know that he is a passenger immediately after this scandal. The idea of a partial capital increase through the state-owned company exchange will not only enable pension companies to obtain higher profitability, it will not only make companies better managed, but will also give fresh resources to these enterprises. We are not only talking here about the energy sector or the military industrial complex. Here are your hospitals, for example. It's the same example there. We all have great doubts that hospitals or some of the hospitals are managed in the most effective way possible. Why? Because they're not transparent enough. If we understood at the moment when expenditure is being carried out, which is not effective enough and efficient enough, we would react, we would oppose. But we don't understand. How do we find out? It's very simple. If one or each of these hospitals has 10% participation of pension companies at the moment, at any moment when they notice you, I've heard examples, I don't blame anyone, and I can't claim them, but I've heard examples that private hospitals buy syringes for example 6 pennies, there are state or municipal hospitals that buy 18 pennies. Here's a specific example. If a pension company is a shareholder and participates in the board, because at 20% you have the right to participate on the board of this trading company and you notice 18 pennies syringes, I'm sure the next morning you'll be calling all the national television stations to show the gold-plated syringes. On the other hand, with the increase in hospital capital, for example, what do we get? We will generate funds, fresh resources in these hospitals because we will allow them to either pay their old obligations or invest in new equipment, new departments, higher specialists' salaries, and ultimately in better health care. So everybody wins. I'm not saying that the bill is bad, but I'm saying that it will not achieve the goal that you set for yourself. What I am proposing is that the time will not come in this National Assembly, but in the next National Assembly, if both you and I and you and other colleagues are members of the National Assembly again, to sit down and to think very seriously and responsibly on this subject, and indeed without dividing ourselves into the left and right, because here we are ultimately talking about the Bulgarian economy, to make one and to support a comprehensive bill that will really lead to the desired benefits that we all want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev. After him to prepare for speech the people representative Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dobrev, it is really good that this debate has started and economists in the Chamber and others are beginning to listen and understand how important and significant this action is and what it can lead to in improving the work in state and municipal enterprises. Mr. Dobrev, what you said does not prevent it being proposed between first and second readings. I think if we sit down and think about it, there's nothing wrong with it. So between first and second readings, by the essence of the law, as you said you were.................................................................................................... we have on the left view of the concrete results............................................................................................................................................ So between first and second readings we can sit down, unite, think about it, but what you're really proposing is quite, quite reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u53	Thank you. Second line? Here you are.. People's representative Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dobrev, an excuse to make the line was the examples you gave, especially with hospitals. It immediately occurred to me that I should remind you of the double archin with which we measure the different categories of governance on the occasion of this bill, which I also have a remark on, and I will not support, because in this form I do not see why I should support it. But let me ask you: why did you write and perform in your program in these two years not to demonopolist the largest financial and economic structure in the country? How is it appointed there, how is it managed? You appeal that this bill will not give transparency in governance, and that is the big problem! Huge public resource there is managed opaquely, on the contrary it is centralized. How does the appointment of the management of this vast public resource take place? Of course, with the agreement that this is not an undertaking, that this is not exactly an economic structure, but a financial one. Where in the world is there an absolute monopoly in the management of such a huge public resource? The answer is: nowhere! We've recorded it in our program and we're conveniently moving on, because demonopolising can bring us some negatives. I'm not gonna tell you why. I'm not gonna tell you why. That is, when we measure and seek fair solutions for managing public enterprises, for managing public enterprises where there is public resources, let us not forget those who have even greater importance and even greater resources in them are managed by appointed people, neither market nor control nor transparency. I apologize if I got off the subject, but your example led me to think about expanding the topic of governance of state enterprises and resources.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u55	Thank you. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u56	Dear Mr. Stoinev, I fear that the changes that I propose will come too much out of the scope of the Bill at first reading to be corrected between first and second readings. So once again, I invite you, if we have to sit down and develop a bill from now on, if we have enough time to submit it together and try more in this National Assembly, but between first and second readings, it seems to me that it will not work. Regarding the second line, Mr. Tsonev. I am not the biggest health specialist, however, but health problems seem to me not to be as healthy as they are economically. And from this point of view, I think that a share of funds across the capital market in hospitals with a minority package of 10% will significantly improve the management of state-owned companies. However, this will not help save money from the Health Insurance Fund, because hospitals will continue to ask for the same money from the Health Insurance Fund. That is why I agree with you, and this is a personal opinion, although I have nothing to do with the development of GERB's programme in part I could answer any question for you in the Economics, Economics and Tourism sectors. I am cautious on health care, but my personal opinion is that this reform, which has improved the management of state companies, increased their transparency, increased cost efficiency, on the one hand, must be compensated by competition in the health care cases, what you are talking about. Because if you pay proportionately to a hospital a small part of your so-called private Health Insurance Fund and the rest of the state Health Insurance Fund, then the private Health Insurance Fund, I'm sure you'll make a good enough organization to check every single expense. And since it is paid proportionately, saving its own money will also save the State Health Insurance Fund. It is not so complicated, and my personal opinion is that such a thing can be done and especially if it is done in both directions. Here we have spoken with colleagues and I regret that Semir Abu Melih is not there, he would add quality arguments to this debate, but on the one hand, improving the management of hospitals through IPO 10, 20, 30% and the participation of pension companies, institutional investors, why not individual investors and, on the other hand, controlling Cassata's expenditure through competition with other banks, which, by defending their private interest, will protect the state interest of the State Health Insurance Fund. There's no contradiction in what we say. On the contrary, there are things that can be done and it is good to create an organization so that we can do them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u57	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Andreev, you have stated a wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The management of public enterprises is a severe sorrow of the entire transition. I personally attended this National Assembly, the 38th National Assembly, when the spirit was released from the bottle. A mistake was then made, which continues today to be made by the municipal councillors to board the respective municipal enterprises. Since then, there has been a very severe political lobbying of the principle. This is mine, this is your man. In many places, public enterprises have been brought to a very difficult situation. I also believe that what BSP colleagues offer as an idea is very good. At the same time, I remember an ancient Greek maxim: Don't trust the Danas when they bring you gifts. A major importer of this Law, by the way, I will say that I will support it in this Parliament, I will vote for Cornelia Ninova! Look, she herself was the product of such political management. Just to remind ourselves that the previously unknown lawyer Ninova, during Kostov's time, became executive director of the "Technoimpex" without the relevant, of course, necessary for this purpose experience and some knowledge in this area and became a member of the board or chairman of the Board of Directors of Bulgarimportexport. That's why I say I don't trust Danai when they bring gifts. Nevertheless, I will support the Law because I believe that things should be named by their real names. There can no longer be this party caving and draining of huge public, municipal and state resources. However, the question is: how are we going to make the law effective? I wish the BSP, if they come to power, God forbid, then as rulers to be the initiators of such legislation, and not only when they are opposition. Nevertheless, I will support the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u59	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] A line? Line, you were speaking. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is time for this bill to be adopted, and it can also be revised. What Mr. Andreev also said, I thank him for his support, which is precisely the idea that the next government that has come to have a restrictive framework and to know that the people who will be employed there will have transparency, there will be a team that will have a relevant business plan depending on the enterprise whether investment will increase, whether debt will be reduced, whether new jobs will be created or vice versa. We should already start putting order in these enterprises. What colleagues from GERB say is also very reasonable. Why don't we offer it now? What's the holdup? Some members may drop out, others may be added. There's nothing wrong with that. We have to say stop and be like the people of the world do. It is no accident that these enterprises are starting to take more and more territory and we are increasingly wondering how, for example, CEZ, a state company comes and operates in Bulgaria? How is it that a state-owned company invests in the country and we do not have a Bulgarian company to conquer markets in the Balkans. Colleagues, the word is professionalism. There are people who are appointed with a corresponding payment and this undertaking is starting to work entirely on a market basis. It starts to compete with other businesses. Unlike foreign enterprises that work here, they export the capital, this capital remains here. Here remains and this capital can be used for the development of the Bulgarian economy. Let's go to second reading, see the proposals, discuss them, let's some who think that for example can't do this... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm ready to debate. I'm ready to withdraw some proposals, I'll accept others. We really need to create this foundation. It's necessary. We shouldn't delay, say, because there's no time. Yes, there is time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u61	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u62	One sentence. The next government should really be obliged, whether it will be left, right, whether it will be centrist, to follow the specific rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u63	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Andreev? You won't use it. Any other MPs? There aren't any. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote a Public Enterprises Bill No 654-01-94 tabled by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 20 July 2016. They voted 106 MPs: 35 against 11, 60 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENERGY EFFICIENCY LAW. Report from the Energy Commission.. Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u64	Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, Deputy Minister, Nikolay Nalbantov, Director of Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development, Alexandrina Dimitrova, Head of Department of Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development, Valentina Ilieva, State Expert in the same Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u65	We are voting on this proposal. 100 MPs voted: 94, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests if they're here. We're listening, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u66	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, No 602-01-72, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2016. At a meeting held on 24 November 2016, the Energy Commission examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, No 602-01-72, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2016. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Energy: Nikolay Nikolov Deputy Minister, Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov Director of Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development and Policies, Mrs. Alexandrina Dimitrova The bill was presented by Nikolay Nikolov "Deputy Minister of Energy." The Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act has been developed in relation to the incomplete transposition of Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency and Directive 2010/31/EU on the energy performance of buildings into national legislation. To bring the Law into line with the provisions of Directive 2010/31/EU, the scope of buildings subject to mandatory certification is extended by including all buildings in operation. Energy efficiency and energy savings requirements for public procurement are regulated as well as when purchasing or renting buildings by public entities from the central administration for the supply of energy-related products. In order to comply with the frequency of mandatory periodic energy efficiency verification as laid down in Directive 2010/31/EU, changes to art. 50, para. 2 of the Energy Efficiency Act, under which the same will be carried out in a shorter time. The frequency of inspections is different and is determined depending on the type of fuel used and the installed capacity of the boilers. Amendments to the Energy Act relating to the issuance, transfer and revocation of certificates of origin for electricity produced in high-efficiency cogeneration have been made to the national legislation of Directive 2012/27/EU in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law. Changes were also made in the Draft Law regarding the achievement of the national energy efficiency target by 2020. The changes were made following an analysis of the implementation of the national energy efficiency target by 2020 on a proposal from the Agency for Sustainable Energy Development and provided for alternative measures. The Bill also added to the powers of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Energy in relation to the development and adoption of the National Programme for Rapid Gasification. The accelerated gasification programme is included in the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria as a measure for increasing energy efficiency. Following the presentation of the Bill, the MPs asked supplementary questions. People's representative Mr. Delyan Dobrev asked if there was a penalty and what size it would be if they were not subject to mandatory certification all buildings in operation. The MP Mr. Tasco Ermenkov asked a question about the program for accelerated gasification and the possible inclusion of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory in the process of realization of the Programme. With regard to compulsory certification of buildings Mr. Ermenkov proposed to consider setting a minimum threshold of 250 m2 similar to the buildings for public service. Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, Deputy Minister of Energy, explained that sanctions are not envisaged if the buildings in operation are not necessarily certified. On the proposal of Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, the Ministry of Energy said that in the process of the development of the National Programme for Rapid Gasification will be relied on the Commission's expertise on energy and water regulation. As regards the setting of a minimum threshold for mandatory certification for all buildings, it was clarified that the requirement of Directive 2010/31/EU applies to all buildings in operation, with only public service buildings being subject to a minimum threshold of 250 m2. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee with 14 votes for the Energy Efficiency Act, No 602-01-72, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2016.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u67	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Colleagues, the other reports will be heard after the break, as a charity pre-Christmas exhibition will be opened in the Northern lobby of Pernik for disabled people working with children and young people with special needs. With the funds raised will be purchased new materials with which young people can continue their art therapy. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. At 12:00, we proceed with blitz control. [[Aside from the microphones.]] After the blitzcontrol, the other reports. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. The sitting continues with: BLlCCONTROL. I recall the procedure: on two issues from the parliamentary groups, and from the non-members in the parliamentary groups, the procedure is by analogy with asking a question in the usual Friday control. Mr. Hamid, procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u69	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Madam President, once again the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria is not present at the blitzcontrol, which is for him and for the deputy prime ministers of the state. As I recall, during all this 2016, the prime minister was only twice under blitzcreate once in January and once in June. I understand once, twice, that a person has respectable reasons, but this is a disparity from the Prime Minister to Parliament, to the MPs and to the Bulgarian people as a whole. I'm asking you to step into your authority under art. No. 104, para. 3 of our staff will consult with the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers for time and time and then to conduct the blitzcontrol. I'd like you to submit my procedure for delaying the blitzcontrol until you and the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers have reached an agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u70	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the procedure for delaying the blitzcontrol. Vote 65 MPs: 33, against 21, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u71	Madam President, I am asking for a re-voting procedure because colleague Mehmed Ataman has just entered and has failed to vote. In the meantime, I ask you to contact the Prime Minister and still talk to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u72	There is a meeting of the Council of Ministers at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u73	It is not so scary to come to the Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u74	There's a meeting going on right now. It's a re-vote. [[Noise and lines. National Representative Stanislav Anastasov wants a procedure.]] I put in a re-vote, we're in voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u75	I requested a procedure before the re-voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u76	Where did you say you were? We're in re-election mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u77	I've requested a procedure, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u78	Then I'll give you a chance. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u79	The procedure was related to the vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u80	The co-worker came out and asked for a re-vote. I have to run the re-vote right away.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u81	My procedure is related to the re-voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u82	I can't give five treatments after that. We're in re-election mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u83	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u84	We're in re-election mode. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 92 MPs: 46, against 32, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u85	Madam President, I have quite rightly stated my procedure, and it seems to me that you, as an experienced President, two mandates, know very well what it was about. I don't know what the problem was, Mrs. Tsacheva? Is this part of the attempt to hide the Prime Minister from the National Assembly or something else?! Once again, I declare my roll call procedure, as it was correctly applied before the revoting. I'm asking you to follow the rules and not hide the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u86	Mr. Anastasov, when we are in voting mode after the vote is taken, the MPs have the opportunity to make a procedural proposal for revoting. As soon as requested, the chair is obliged to declare a timely and immediate voting regime. Yes, before re-voting, a name check may be requested when, at the same time, the people's representative who requested the re-voting said so in view of the same vote. This is the practice of the National Assembly.............................................................................................. [[Noise and lines. Replies from DPS: "It has never been like this! "]] The meeting today is attended by Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. Are there any questions from the parliamentary group of GERB to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev? I won't. From the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria? Mr. Vigenin, we're listening to your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I think this is the last blitz control in which this government is involved and, at least, out of respect for the parliament, the Prime Minister could have been here and answered our questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u88	You have a chance to ask Mr. Donchev a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u89	Madam President, I know who I have the opportunity to ask a question to, but as the MP, I have the right to express my dissatisfaction with the fact that, once again, the Prime Minister does not consider it necessary to be here and to participate in blitzcontrol, which is primarily for the Prime Minister. The deputy prime ministers are his deputies. I thank Mr. Donchev for being here after all. Mr. Donchev, on 16 December the last meeting of the European Council, which will probably be attended by a representative of this government, namely the Prime Minister in resignation Boyko Borisov. It's a resignation government. Then it's one of his last days. The President is also at the end of his term of office. Only really functioning institution is the National Assembly. And it is important for us to know with what positions the government and Prime Minister in resignation Boyko Borisov will participate in this meeting. It provides for discussion of key topics for Bulgaria such as migration issues, some of them and the Agreement between the European Union and Turkey. External security and defence issues will be discussed and coordination between the EU member states, economic development and youth, as well as foreign policy issues such as relations between the European Union and the Russian Federation. An element of this is also the possible extension of the economic sanctions of the European Union with regard to the Russian Federation. I would like to ask you: have these issues been discussed in the Council of Ministers, with what positions does Bulgaria go? And specifically: does the Bulgarian government intend to comply with the position of a large part of the Bulgarian citizens to come up with an initiative that would be aimed at dropping or eliminating the sanctions imposed by the European Union to the Russian Federation and, accordingly, reciprocal steps by the Russian Federation to the European Union? I think this is an issue which should be the attention of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and going to do something that will be supported by a large part of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u90	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, you're right. There is a Council meeting in less than 10 days and important topics are included on the agenda. So far, the position of Bulgaria, at least by memory, as a decision of the Council of Ministers, has not been made. You're right to be interested, on purpose I don't say "curiosity" on any of the topics. In the remaining nine days, with the help of the President of the National Assembly, I propose to specify some adequate parliamentary mechanism and the government's position at least to be consulted by the Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u92	A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u93	Thank you for your time, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I am aware that this issue should, in principle, be asked to be answered by the Prime Minister, but we have already raised this question for a possible hearing or discussion, which seems to have found no support in the GERB Parliamentary Group, but we are prepared and prepared such a request. I hope that this week obviously cannot happen, but at the beginning of next parliamentary week, on Wednesday, we can make such a debate, because I stress that this is not some issue which is a whim of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria and key topics that will still be putting Bulgaria's policies and positions on the table within the next at least half to one year, so it makes sense, firstly, that we should know what is coming. And, secondly, the Prime Minister, going to this meeting, should be aware of the opinion of the Bulgarian Parliament. Whether this is going to happen with a parliament decision or it will still be at least one discussion in which we are heard is a matter of further judgment, but I really hope that your position is the Prime Minister's position and that he will be here next week to discuss these issues with us. By the way, this is a practice which is also provided for in the Rules of the National Assembly, but it was not applied in these two years to the Prime Minister to come to the National Assembly and report on the positions before a meeting of the European Council. I hope that, as a last resort, next week and now in the next Parliament, we will have a more frequent dialogue on the topics related to Bulgaria's participation in the decisions taken in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u94	Will you use the hole, Mr. Donchev? No. From the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, a question? I won't. Mr. Delchev from the Reformation Block Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my question is in the field of energy and in particular it is related to the construction of the nuclear power plant "Belene" and the information that appeared regarding the future of the project. After our country was sentenced by international arbitration for nearly 1 billion. 100 million. BGN, different perspectives have emerged for the equipment that we should currently have, namely " or to be sold to another country or to another company, or to be used again in Bulgaria, by finding foreign investors to invest in the project without state guarantees. On yesterday, the Minister of Energy announced that there is a second Chinese company that has shown interest in the Project. This morning again Minister Petkova said three companies have expressed interest so far. So, my question is whether the Council of Ministers has a clear idea of which way or perhaps a third way it will go in relation to the future of the nuclear power plant. And give us a little more specific information regarding the investment interest of the Chinese company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u96	Mr. Donchev, we're listening to your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Delchev, you were so correct when asking the question to mention that up to now two scenarios have been commented on the use of the produced, almost paid, a matter of a day or two, equipment for the nuclear power plant, or construction of the nuclear facility, only entirely as a market project, without state investment, or resale of the equipment. Which of the two scenarios will finally be realized is a matter of detailed economic, technical and other analysis, but in the first place However, in the process of making a final decision there is nothing wrong, it is even commendable that negotiations are being conducted with potential investors. So far, there has been interest from several companies, but for the reason that we do not have the consent of the other party, I am unable to comment on their names. You were correct to mention that this week there was an official visit by representatives of a large Chinese corporation specializing in nuclear energy. Preliminary discussions were made. Naturally, they have invested a lot of effort to analyze the situation with this nuclear project. They were informed at the meeting with both the Minister of Energy and myself and the Prime Minister what is the starting position of the Bulgarian government. We allow a scenario, we allow a conversation about the construction of this nuclear power plant, but this should happen entirely on a market basis, which means that an investment based on the one interested and an attempt to seek profitability of the liberal market facility, i.e. in order to make it happen, it must sell energy at competitive prices. In the talks with the three investors who showed interest all claim that such a precondition satisfies them and the market is only in Bulgaria, the regional market or rather the interest. From here on, if we continue along this path, it is most appropriate to follow, so to say, a privatisation procedure where the two major assets of the manufactured equipment As further clarification, as a starting point, except that we do not allow state funds to be invested in this project, we have informed everyone that they cannot rely on contracts to secure the purchase of electricity, which is another type of state support. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] If this scenario is not realised, the resale option remains. It is good to know that in the option of resale, we are only talking about minimizing the damage, which is interested in whether the Russian Republic itself, in attempts at resale, will demand a price much lower than that which we have paid to the producers. The analysis of the preliminary negotiations conducted with all interested parties shows precisely this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u98	The line, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u99	Mr. Donchev, thank you for your reply and I fully welcome the approach of the Bulgarian state in terms of negotiations with potential investors. First of all, that this project must be market-based, without state guarantees and without compulsory buy-in contracts. This is commendable, as it would find support from right-wing politicians like myself and as colleagues, because only one project that develops and wins on a market basis can be successful within nuclear energy, of course, with state control in relation to issues that concern national security. I sincerely hope that every future government and that you, until the time you can stand up for these principles and these conditions, will do so. I only have a slight doubt that any company, especially companies that do not come from the most capitalist countries and countries that develop on a market basis, would invest in a project that aims only to earn and recover its costs from the profits it makes. Those are my doubts. I hope that ultimately what the state has spent so far will be restored in one way or another, without obligation from the Bulgarian taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u100	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u101	Dear Mr. Delchev, from the talks with all potential investors it is certain one thing if someone is planning to invest, to build such a facility as a private project, he does not rely solely on the Bulgarian market. Everyone is adamant that the Bulgarian market, such as electricity consumption, cannot absorb, so to speak, using domestic terms, this electricity. From there it's all an investor's account. He will realize how much money he would spend by bidding in a privatisation procedure and how long he will be able to compensate for these costs even after decades of seeking profit. The government's position is that we do not mind having such a facility built, naturally in compliance with all the strict norms of safety, especially those of a nuclear facility. As economic benefits, let us not forget that such a scenario would allow all costs incurred so far to be recovered, but from the operation of a nuclear facility, even if the state does not have a share in it, our analysis shows that we will only benefit from not only tax, in terms of employment of highly skilled labour.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u102	Here comes a question on behalf of the Patriot Front Group. Mr. Bayraktarov will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u103	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! My question to you relates to the government's policy and, in particular, to your portfolio, which is related to tackling poverty and at the same time this policy, which we see does not result in any significant positive result, has adopted a vicious one in my opinion and, in our view, a practice of compensation for Bulgarian pensioners through Christmas, Easter supplements. This policy of yours, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, actually not only solves problems but creates an extraordinary division and a huge injustice, given that you have taken an approach to giving Christmas supplements as is the nearest case, amounting to 40 BGN. of pensioners who receive a pension of up to BGN 300. At the same time, however, people who receive BGN 301, BGN 302, BGN 303, BGN 340, and they are hundreds of thousands, receive nothing. My question in this direction is: don't you think and don't you think that it is finally right to take a much fairer mechanism, with which Bulgaria, in which the Constitution has bet that it is a social state, to have an equal and equal approach to all Bulgarian pensioners and on one such mechanism, though, everyone should feel that the state is thinking about them and receiving this social assistance, because it is not a pension supplement, but social assistance, in an absolutely fair manner, as it is right to do, and not create division and tension in the most vulnerable social group, namely the Bulgarian pensioners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u104	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, you are right, whenever there are thresholds, whether we are talking about pensions, minimum wage or other thresholds, this potential injustice appears. If the threshold is 500, the one with 501 BGN. has no right to what the one who is one lev below is entitled to, and this is a principled problem of this methodology. If you have a concrete proposal on how it is appropriate to settle additional payments in this area and in general, both I and my colleagues are able to listen to it, analyze it and see if it can be implemented. I would like to draw attention to the fact that when we talk about poverty, which is a scourge, which is a problem when we talk about social policy, it is not just about social payments, including pensions. In the whole modern world, when we talk about needy persons, payments and social benefits, and pensions on the other hand, it is not the only mechanism for us to take care of these people, that is why there are complexes of the so-called emergency networks that are designed to identify to a much greater extent the need of the individual, the one who needs energy aid, the one who receives energy assistance, whether for electricity, whether for heating; the one who needs free medicines to receive such assistance and so based on the entire spectrum of needs. It is not the only option to increase social payments to deal with social problems. On the subject of thresholds, you are generally right. I am available to discuss how this issue could be regulated in the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u106	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I have always had respect for your correct manner of response, but then I have always been cruelly fueled by the incorrect failure of debate and conversation. This was the case when I raised the issue of minimum pensions four months ago and their increase, equalising with the poverty threshold. From this tribune, you said there would be a conversation and debate on this issue, but then for reasons unknown to us on October 31st the last day under the Public Finance Act, the Council of Ministers submitted the budget without discussing it with us. Now you are asking me if we have proposals, yes, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we have proposals and we insist that they be respected and implemented, as it is a social payment, which is a commitment only to the state, and social payments are covered by budget funds or other such. Without any problem, the Council of Ministers gave away 1 billion of the surplus for renovation, without having any justifications is it already effective, is it not effective, but just a day ago the Minister of Finance said that the year and the budget will end with 700 million surplus. There is no problem at least for a sender the Council of Ministers to release another 100 million and on the proportional principle that we have placed in our proposal in the State Social Security Budget Act, all pensioners to be treated in the same way, because they are a socially vulnerable group. Here the poverty threshold application is not laid down in the Law, it is not applicable as an excuse, but you can simply approach all Bulgarian pensioners exactly the same for Christmas. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you. I hope you'll take that advice from me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u108	A hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u109	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, this particular parliamentary procedure of blitzcontrol does not give sufficient resources from time to time to have a thorough debate on this topic, at least given the limited time, nor to have a dispute that I do not need, which is more important. The solution of the social problems of vulnerable Bulgarian citizens, or for example the policies for modernization of the country. One and the other is important. They can't resist. It's wrong for someone to put one policy as counterpoint on the other. You have to look for the balance and they have to develop together. Any extraordinary payments with regard to pensioners with low pensions will not permanently solve the problems of this vulnerable group. And after the pension reform that took place and ended the ex-premier Kalfin, there may be a need for further debate on what to do with this undoubtedly vulnerable part of the Bulgarian population. However, this debate cannot be held today. I am available next week, or two, as Deputy Prime Minister and then as a free citizen, to discuss with you on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u110	From the group of the BDZ-People's Union. Rosen Petrov will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u111	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I'm sorry Mrs. Kuneva is absent, but I'm going to ask you this question as a representative of the government of this blitz control. Data came out that 41% of Bulgarian students aged 16 years are functionally illiterate. I'm asking you this question as a man who has a relationship with science. What are the general views of the government to overcome this really very difficult problem? 41% of Bulgarian students do not understand what they read, to be more direct?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u112	Mr. Petrov, this is a question, as you said, explicitly to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education Mrs. Kuneva. She's on sick leave today, and that's why she's not here. I think it is not right for you to refer this question to another deputy prime minister. [[Relations from the MP Rosen Petrov and Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev.]] But you insist on answering. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u113	Dear Mr. Petrov, the data from this year is not very different from the data from the previous one, from the previous one and so on. This is a symptom of the quality of Bulgarian education, which should be read in the best way. When we talk about education, we usually focus on budgets, remuneration, delegated budgets, network coverage. Obviously with this symptom, reading in a better way, the focus should be in another place, what is happening in the classrooms, what educational, pedagogical process is going on there, about the quality of the textbooks, the quality of the programs and mostly the relationship between the training process and the reality where, in my opinion, in Bulgarian education, not only the primary but the secondary course and higher education have an extremely serious problem. At the risk of slipping someone along the easy solutions that are often commented in this House, there is no simple solution to be applied immediately and from next month to have prerequisites and the results to be different next year. We need a different attitude to pedagogical staff, to teachers. Raising wages is a good step, but not the only one. This should become a reputable profession where people not only with competences, people with a sense of mission to accept as a personal achievement the achievement of every child. This is just the beginning. In any case, it is a process that should take years. As over the years, the PIZA results have been getting worse and worse to go back the way it is, it will also take years. First good steps are there, I commented some of them, but they are not enough in any case.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u114	A line? You won't use it. The Attack Group has no questions asked. ABB's group, Mr. Kuchukov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u115	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Those days in the public domain, Bulgaria's priorities for presidency in the European Union were published. We were the first side of our threesome to publish these priorities, which is a good sign of serious treatment of this problem. However, it is known that the proposals for priorities of individual countries are only an addition to the main priorities of the European Union and, as numbers have said, 95% are the main priorities of the European Union, and these are only additions or modifying elements. However, in the course of their Presidency, a number of countries have tabled proposals for priorities that have remained as a road map, as one way in which the European Union can act in the coming years. A typical example of this is Greece, which in 2003 proposed a way of expanding the European Union to include all the countries of the Balkan region and the so-called so-called so-called Solun agenda. My question is: is Bulgaria a single main topic that fits into the priority of the European Union, which is important to our country and which gives the image of our Presidency, not to be an impersonal Presidency, and why not remain further in the history of the European Union as our contribution to its development?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u116	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u117	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kuchukov, I have limited responsibilities related to the Presidency, more related to logistics and infrastructure, but I will allow myself to comment on what I think on the subject. At all, when we comment on the Presidency, its material security is the least of the problems or, let us say, in any case, should not be the greatest challenge. A much greater challenge is purely political art, which is important for the Member State concerned to enter into a pan-European turnover and to be recognized by key European institutions and other Member States. One thing is certain, in or outside the purely national priorities, there is no way that the Presidency is not a unique chance to say good from both national and European perspective, a position on several topics, thanks to the time in which the Presidency is taking place. The first topic is budget and multiannual financial framework plus cohesion policy. I expect that the period will coincide with the final part of the package "New. " And here is the purely national interest, commented from the point of view of the common cut of European policies, to be presented in the best way. All the administrations I'm in charge of are already preparing for this. We have a strong capacity here, we have good arguments, pan-European, although they correspond to national interest. In addition, my personal understanding is that, again, given the time in which the Presidency is being held, there is no way that two common main topics, given the challenges surrounding us, understand security, including energy security and energy, are not part of the agenda either. Whoever has political commitments to manage the state at this time must do it in the best way, because here there is a unique chance that important topics for Bulgaria to acquire an adequate European cut. In fact, the rotating Presidency is this - it gives a unique chance for Europe in different cycles to be viewed from different geographical points of view, from a different Member State. And although direct national lobbying for some important national cause is accepted with a certain dose of suspicion, skillfully doing the things that need to be done, taking on the role of a fine and skilled moderator, we all know that there are things that can be pushed through.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u118	A line, Mr. Kuchukov? You won't use it. A question from Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u119	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Donchev, as Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Policy you are the person who has to answer and can answer this question. In February this year, you were in Brussels at the meeting of the Directorate-General for European Commission's Competition (ECC) on the topic of Non-necessary State aid given by the Bulgarian State to American companies currently owning TPP-1 and TPP-3. Would you reply to the honourable National Assembly and the Bulgarian citizens during these two years of your government why you did not repeat what the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission did in the last months of the management of the Bad People's Republic of Bulgaria Plamen Oresharski, when the then DVR, led by Mr. Boev, asked the European Commission whether the illegal state aid was concluded by the Bulgarian State agreement with the two American TPPs, which cost us, as far as I understand it at this time, the amount that we will have to pay with a loan taken by the Bulgarian State, over one billion leva? So my question is specific: what have you done for these two years, and what are you going to do until the end of your remaining term, as it is a colossal amount which, added to the payment that we will make for the reactors of the nuclear power plant "Belene" will make the Bulgarian citizens poorer by more than two billion levs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u120	For an answer, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u121	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Enchev! What talks have been held at some of the working meetings in Brussels, I have no right to announce even to the National Assembly because I have signed a declaration of confidentiality and it is not right. There was no need for a second signal to the European Commission, as far as it was triggered by the first signal. There's a production going on there. All interested parties, both the companies in the TPPs and the Bulgarian state institutions, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Finance, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission have repeatedly provided the information requested by the European Commission. I am unofficially informed that in the next few months, it will come up with a decision there is or no unregulated state aid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u122	The line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u123	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Donchev. Then I am making a concrete proposal to the honourable National Assembly to organise a closed meeting of this National Assembly, where you can deliver all the information, as the MPs are those representatives of the people who need to know the whole truth in its financial economic parameters about this obviously unfavorable agreement concluded in the last months of the management of Mr. Ivan Kostov 15 years ago. We are talking about a sum of over a billion leva, which we must pay for a criminal and criminal treaty, which we, as we understand, and your government does not dare to revise, as you were in your right to request, to confirm this request of the State Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory before the European Commission. Only after such confirmation can the European Commission activate and give an adequate response, as it is clear to everyone that these contracts concluded with the Americans are entirely to the detriment of the Bulgarian economic interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u124	A hole? You won't use it. Second round of questions the group of GERB. No questions asked. The group of BSP left Bulgaria and Mr. Bozhinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u125	Honourable Chairman, Honourable Deputy Prime Minister! Your government portfolios and your capacity as Deputy Prime Minister give me reason to ask you a question about the government's decision to sign the Trade and Economic Agreement with Canada. It is known that this Agreement is not just a trade-economic agreement, but a political agreement. This Agreement is defined as an analogue and a kind of bypass to the famous Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement between the United States and Europe. The Agreement provides for the so-called pre-execution. A number of European countries, through their judicial authorities, have banned their governments from prior implementation until the ratification of the Agreement by all the parliaments of the 28 countries. Another decent behaviour of regional governments in Europe is known. You are aware of the behaviour of the Belgian provincial government, which refused to sign the Agreement, clearly defined its interests, conducted additional negotiations, won concessions in the field of environment, standards and rights to sue their country by corporations. There was no such debate in Bulgaria. There was a sporadic debate about the Transatlantic Agreement. From this tribune your colleagues assured me and fellow MPs that a serious analysis will be done, the benefits and losses will be examined [[the President signals that time has run out]] and Bulgaria will have a competent solution. My one-word question is: was it an external suggestion or an internal belief of the Bulgarian ministers?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u126	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u127	Dear Mr. Bojinov, the Bulgarian government does not make decisions under foreign suggestion. Every decision, including this, is based on analysis, free will and conscience of all members of the Council of Ministers. Without being able to comment in detail on the issue, there was an analysis prepared by both the Foreign Ministry and the Ministry of Economy, and I have been familiar with this analysis. It shows that much of the fears I understand people, everyone has the right to be suspicious and worrying when it comes not only to economic well-being, but also to the health and security of the consumer, but, knowing the analysis I understand that what is being commented not only in Bulgaria, but also in other countries, such as risks to ecology or health, is a fact. The Agreement itself does not open loopholes in this direction, both in terms of imports of genetically modified foods and in terms of products that may be harmful to the quality of any user The other part of the analysis shows that the Agreement implies bilateral benefits for both one and the other, including benefits for European producers, especially those producing agricultural production, in so far as additional export opportunities are being created for animal production, meat, cheese and so on. This, by the way, is an opportunity from which Bulgarian consumers can take advantage. Positions of other Member States taken on the basis of rational or emotional arguments, I do not want to comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u128	A line? Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u129	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, it was interesting for me to hear from you that you, the Bulgarian ministers, had an analysis and evaluation, and from this tribune I repeat, Minister Kuneva, Minister of Economy and Minister of Foreign Affairs of my questions answered that we would be familiar as MPs with these analyses and assessments. This one first. Secondly, the majority refused our proposal to be included in the discussion of these ratification laws and the consideration of issues included in the European Parliament's Annual Programme. And just one clarification. The United States has taken the job of the President-elect on the Transatlantic Agreement with the following arguments: it is so far out in the interests of large transnational companies that it can suffocate the backbone of the national American economy, the small and medium-sized enterprises, so it appreciates it as a disadvantage to the backbone of the US economy and will not continue the negotiations. However, the Canadian agreement is a bypass for these corporations that will enter Europe, and I am not convinced that you, with such depth and responsibility to the Bulgarian economy, its backbone, have made this decision. If you can answer me, did you make the decision? Did you look each other in the eye and make at least one argument Minister of Minister that you should vote or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u130	A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u131	Even the tone in your question gives you the emotional approach we use, treating extremely serious things where we need a sober analysis. What you said earlier. It is obvious that both sides of the ocean with regard to TTIP have doubts about the need for such an Agreement. The most interesting thing is that some of the arguments are mutually exclusive. [[Relations from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] In many European Member States there is doubt or suspicion that such an agreement would be in the advantage of American interest. It is surprising that, following the political debate, especially before the presidential elections in the United States, there are comments that such an agreement would be in the European interest. [[Noise and lines.]] Obviously, they can't both be true. It is obvious that the challenges of globalisation, apart from new opportunities for economies, also give new chances for populism. In addition to answering all the fears, concerns and doubts that people have, when it comes to comics, honourable Members, I would recommend you, first of all, consider!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u132	There is no question from the DPS group. On behalf of the Reformation Bloc, Mr. Velikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for being here to answer our questions. With colleagues who are elected from the northwestern part of Bulgaria, long months, perhaps throughout this period of the forty-third National Assembly, we are trying to push things in the direction of revival of this region. We hoped strongly that the targeted investment programme in Northwestern Bulgaria and for other poorly developed regions in the country, but especially for Northwestern Bulgaria, will be finally adopted, the relevant policies and measures that were laid down in it a year ago will be taken. Now that, by all accounts, our National Assembly and our government are already at the end of their time existence, would you make a recapitulation, a reckoning, how far did this program go?! Can we still count on that in the few days that remain, we could still achieve something or what inheritance we might eventually leave for further, perhaps for those who will come to the Forty-fourth National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u134	Mr. Donchev, come in. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u135	Dear Mr. Veliv, I will be infinitely specific, making a brief retrospective. You know that the original version of the programme was primarily oriented towards improvements related to physical infrastructure, which is undoubtedly an important component. I'm sure you'll agree with me that he's not the only one. Some of the analyses we have on similar policies in other Member States have shown that targeted investment in infrastructure is an important component, an important step, but if we use such monosectoral investments, it will not have the necessary effect. Therefore, as you are probably informed, a process of processing the programme or its enrichment was launched a few months ago, where the infrastructure component of the sites submitted by the respective local authorities, regional administrations and so on, added additional measures mainly in the social sphere, as well as measures relevant to education, with which we believe that the programme has a much more complex and much more complete image. Using the technology of so-called multiplicity interventions, where, at the same time, in several spheres, it is being invested, we believe that its implementation will have a profound effect. It has been submitted to the Council of Ministers and I believe that it will be accepted for the rest of the life of this government. Who will do it from now on is a whole other matter, but it is important to me that it be fulfilled. I just mark the tools provided to address specifically the inactive in the labour market, those who do not have, but are not looking for work, there are certain innovative tools developed in the Social Ministry in the last few months. For information only, this is beyond this formal horizon on which we think, we also have an additional set of measures that have been developed in the relevant departments, which in future may be supplemented by the programme, specific ideas related to the educational system, especially with the initial and the average course, as well as state administrations, but they could appear in a second phase of the programme. She's ready to go the way she was designed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u136	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. In all likelihood, there will be at least one more meeting of our Council of Ministers. Hand over my application to Professor. Lilkov, probably also to the other colleagues from our Northwestern Bulgaria and other less developed areas, which were mentioned in this targeted and strong program, that we would welcome it if, in the next meeting of our Council of Ministers, it would be the last, but there would be time, once everything is ready under the programme, to be adopted. I think that would be a good sign to the people of our northwestern corner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u138	You won't use the hole. It's a question from the Patriotic Front. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u139	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my question will be about the same direction as the question of the previous colleague. On 17 September 2016, on a visit by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to the town of Ruse to a question about the critical condition of the road 1.5. Ruse, where dozens of people die daily, showed that there is no funding for him. This, given that only a year earlier the Prime Minister made a clear statement that by the end of 2017, the road would be built as a four-band. Such statements give the impression of a lack of consistent government policy not only for the construction of the specific road, on which over 500 people have died in the last ten years, but also for the development of infrastructure in Northern Bulgaria at all. In a series of questions to ministers Pavlova and Moskovski, we, the MPs from the Patriotic Front, have established crushing disproportions in investment between North and South Bulgaria. Since our entry into the European Union, the ratio is almost 1 to 4 and according to individual programs such as Operational Programme "Transport" "1" to 6, such as this disproportion for the new planning period, given the already agreed and specified sites, reaches 1 to 30. Although European funds should aim at eliminating the difference in the development of the regions, in our case they dramatically increase them, which reflects directly on economic development, income, demographic picture north of the Balkan. In response to our request, Minister Pavlova said that investments of the order of 5 billion are needed to build the main infrastructure sites of Northern Bulgaria: highway In view of this, I would like to ask the following question: has your government considered the development of the main infrastructure in Northern Bulgaria as a priority? Is the development of a financially secured plan for levelling the investment imbalance between South and Northern Bulgaria in order to increase economic activity and income, and the management of demographic collapse, which appears to be a direct result of the lack of implementation of a strategy for even development of the regions?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u140	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u141	Dear Mr. Vesselinoff, you're right and you're wrong. You are wrong about the figures quoted by you relating to imbalances in terms of European funding. As you can guess, I have done a similar analysis on NUTS-2 areas, both by districts, by municipalities and by Northern and Southern Bulgaria. And with most financial instruments, the differences are not so drastic. You are right about the transport infrastructure financed by the Cohesion Fund, the difference is significant and there is a reason for that. It is related to the concentration of transport corridors from the so-called TNT network in southern Bulgaria. That's the reason we have big investments there in essentially three highway facilities, one highway. Unfortunately, in the north, the concentration of corridors is much weaker. We have two priority corridors for the European Commission and these are 4 and 9. If you want me to illustrate: 4 is Vidin "Sofia," 9 is Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo," and the passage through the Balkan Mountains. It could be financed by European money, but it is virtually very unlikely. As far as you know, a huge part of the funding from the Cohesion Fund goes to Lot 3 of the Struma, which needs to be completed, but if the one who manages from now on is able to generate additional revenue in the budget, and this was planned, there is a clear, clear perspective and "Hemus" and the implementation of Corridor 4 as a road infrastructure, and Corridor 9 as a road infrastructure, plus the completion of the Shipka tunnel to happen with budget funds. That's quite possible. Hemus was delayed because of public procurement challenges, not because of lack of money. What we certainly agree on is that this concentration of transport corridors to the south and rather the lack of adequate road, interpreservation and railway infrastructure to the north creates a prerequisite for lasting imbalances. And that question must be resolved. If European money does not reach as it does not reach, we must, in the end, follow the so-called supplemental and there is no way to build everything with European money, this must be done by the budget. There is no way to wait 2020 for the new Cohesion Package. It should be used every year and every month until then, to manage the budget wisely, to have additional revenue to invest primarily in the north. At least from a transport point of view, to create all the prerequisites for balanced socio-economic development, because the differences between some of the regions between the North and the South are very drastic. Not to comment that without the whole north, including Varna, are doomed to catching up, which is not the goal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u142	A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u143	Dear Mr. Donchev, however, the answer made it clear that in fact some specific estimates, plans to overcome this disproportion have not been addressed by the government and some concern for half of the country's territory remains at a declarative level. In this spirit, I would urge really to seek a political consensus to promote such a strategy, for such priority costs, because literally a few days ago the government approved 1 billion. lv. for the sanitization, which has already been mentioned here and which will have quite local action for a small number of people, but we will pay it all, while this 1 billion is equivalent in practice to half the highway These are the orders of these objects. In this spirit, I believe that when it was your own, or every next government, decides to make gifts, to put it this way, to a part of the populationq, and to a small part of the population, it should rather focus its attention on the really global problems that hinder the development of a large part of the country's territory.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u144	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u145	There is a contradiction in the very reproaches I receive. According to the traditional reproach, we only think about infrastructure and not think about everything else. You are now making another reproach which is mutually exclusive to the one I mentioned earlier that investment in infrastructure is insufficient. We will not debate about this, and if there is a call for investments in transport mainly and not only, and the infrastructure in Northern Bulgaria, to be subject to some outside party political consensus, consider that you have my full support for such an initiative, but just to point out the road infrastructure is important. Railway is important, and there investments are even bigger than those you mark. Only the railway connection between Sofia and Vidin is worth more than the entire highway You're commenting on 5 billion. The needs in the water sector are over 10 billion and, apart from the road, there should be thinking about water supply, sewerage and so on, but specifically about your question: in respect of all estimates relating to investment from the state budget in road infrastructure, there is a detailed plan based on Budget 2017, the issue is that the budget should be implemented, including its revenue, with these parameters, which was adopted by the honourable National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u146	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Next up is a question from the BDZ-NS. I won't. There's no attack. The ABC won't. Non-participants in parliamentary groups of Members of the National Assembly will not. Mr. Donchev, thank you for participating in this parliamentary control. We continue with the reports on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act. We heard the report from the Energy Commission. Now follows the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov. To prepare the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ Who... are you? ♪ on a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, No 602-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers Representatives of the Ministry of Energy, of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and of civil organisations took part in the Commission meeting. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Nikolay Nikolov, Deputy Minister of Energy. The main objective of the Bill is to achieve full transposition of Directive 2012/27/EU and Directive 2010/31/EU. The draft was developed in relation to further reasoned opinion No C (2015) 7085 relating to infringement No 2014/0307 of Bulgaria's obligation to communicate the transposition measures into national legislation of Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency and infringement procedure No 2015/4227 for failure by Bulgaria to comply with certain obligations of Directive 2010/31/EU on the energy performance of buildings. To bring the Law into line with the provisions of Directive 31 of the European Union, the scope of buildings subject to mandatory certification is extended by including all buildings in operation. An opportunity has been introduced to implement the national cumulative objective through alternative measures. Energy efficiency and energy savings requirements for public procurement are regulated as well as when purchasing or renting buildings by public entities from the central administration for the supply of energy-related products. The texts relating to the possibility of debtors, namely energy traders making contributions to the Energy Efficiency and Renewables Fund, or to other financial intermediaries to finance activities and energy efficiency measures, have been revised. Changes are proposed regarding the issuance of a certificate of energy performance of a new building. In order to accurately transpose the provisions of the Directive, the certificate of design characteristics is replaced by the certificate of energy performance of a new building and the definition of a new building is also refined. In addition, amendments to the Energy Efficiency Act relating to the issuance, transfer and revocation of certificates of origin of electricity produced in the high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity and heat have been made to transpose into national legislation of Directive 2012/27/EU by means of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act. The opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria expresses the principle support for the Bill, while paying attention to the financial difficulties which the municipalities are experiencing for mandatory inspection and certification of buildings with the RPB over 250 sq.m. m. Since similar difficulties will be encountered and a large part of the owners of private residential buildings it is necessary to plan additional national mechanisms for targeted support to meet the legal requirements. During the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the proposed changes and expressed their support for the opinion of the municipalities regarding the need for additional national mechanisms for targeted support to meet the legal requirements. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 10 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u148	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. The next report is from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, which will introduce us to her chairman Mr. Peter Kanev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u149	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, No 602-01-72, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2016. At its regular meeting on 23 November 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Nikolay Nikolov Deputy Minister of Energy and Nikolay Nalbantov Director of the Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development at the Ministry of Energy. The bill presented by Deputy Minister Nikolov was drawn up in connection with received additional reasoned opinion No C (2015) 7085 relating to infringement No 2014/0307 of Bulgaria's obligation to communicate the transposition measures into the national legislation of Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency and infringement procedure No 2015/4227 for failure by Bulgaria to comply with the obligations under art. Article 4 (2) (c) and (d) Art. 12, par. 6, art. Article 11 (4), Article 12 (1) to (3) and art. 14 paragraphs 1-3 of Directive 2010/31/EU on the energy performance of buildings. In order to bring the Energy Efficiency Act into line with the provisions of Directive 2010/31/EU, the scope of buildings subject to mandatory certification is extended by including all buildings in operation. An opportunity has been introduced to implement the national cumulative objective through alternative measures. An alternative measure is any measure which leads to energy savings in final consumption beyond the individual obligations of energy traders under the obligation scheme. Energy efficiency and energy savings requirements for public procurement are regulated as well as when purchasing or renting buildings by public entities from the central administration for the supply of energy-related products. It is envisaged that the Minister of Economy should draw up and publish on the website of the Ministry of Economy a list of products within three months of the entry into force of the Law. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, No 602-01-72, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. We continue with the Commission's report on monitoring the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. He will introduce us to her chairman Mr. Honest Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u151	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, No 602-01-72, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2016. At a meeting held on 1 December 2016, the Commission for the Monitoring of the Activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act. The bill was presented by Nikolay Nikolov "Deputy Minister of Energy." The Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act has been developed in relation to the incomplete transposition of Directive 2012/27/EU and Directive 2010/31/EU. In order to bring the law into line with the provisions, the scope of buildings subject to mandatory certification is extended by including all buildings in operation. Energy efficiency and energy savings requirements for public procurement are regulated as well as when purchasing or renting buildings by public entities from the central administration for the supply of energy-related products. In order to comply with the mandatory periodic energy efficiency verification requirements laid down in Directive 2010/31/EU, changes to art. 50, para. 2 of the Energy Efficiency Act (KEE), according to which the same will be carried out in a shorter time. Amendments to the Energy Act relating to the issuance, transfer and revocation of certificates of origin have been made to the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Act. The Bill also made amendments in connection with the achievement of the national energy efficiency target by 2020. The Bill also added to the powers of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Energy in relation to the development and adoption of the National Programme for Rapid Gasification. During the presented bill, Ivan Ivanov was also Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Attitude on the presentation of the bill took the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Valeri Simeonov and Valentin Nikolov. After the discussion was concluded, a vote was held which ended with the following results: 16 votes for.................................................................................................................... As a result of the discussion and voting, the Commission for the Monitoring of the Activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, No 602-01-72, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u152	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. We are moving on to a report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, which will introduce us to the people's representative Anna Alexandrova. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, No 602-01-72, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2016. At its meeting held on 23 November 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, No 602-01-72, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy: Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, Deputy Minister, Mr. Nikolay Nalbantov, Director of Energy Strategies and Policies for Sustainable Energy Development, Mrs. Alexandrina Dimitrova, Head of Department, and Mrs. Valentina Ilieva, State Expert. The bill was presented by Mr. Nikolov, who noted that it aims to introduce the requirements of Directive 2012/27/EU on energy efficiency and Directive 2010/31/EU on the energy performance of buildings into Bulgarian legislation. He pointed out that the Law was extended by introducing the requirement for mandatory certification of all buildings in operation and setting out the possibility of applying alternative measures to achieve energy savings in final consumption. The draft law establishes the application of the requirements for energy efficiency and energy savings in the award of public contracts subject to the purchase and rental of buildings by public contracting entities and the supply of products. The powers of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Energy shall be laid down in relation to the development and adoption of a National Programme for Rapid Gasification as a measure to increase energy efficiency. In response to the question put by the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev, Mr. Nikolov pointed out that the overall implementation of the directives is subject to mandatory certification of all buildings in operation, without including measures to improve their energy efficiency, implementation of the standards and rules for energy efficiency in procurement and the establishment of regulatory regulation for the development and adoption of the National Programme for Regulation for the Development and adoption of the National Programme for Rapid Gasification, included in the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria as a measure for increasing energy efficiency. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to support a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, No 602-01-72, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. This was the final report of the committees to which the relevant bill was assigned. I'm opening the debate. Are there anyone who would like to speak on the debate bill? Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the real reason for the adoption of this amendment in the Energy Efficiency Act at first glance is simply to transpose two directives from European legislation, namely 27 and 31, and in particular that part in which Bulgaria has failed to implement the recommendations on the European Union as legislation, namely the improvement of legislation and the introduction of all possible buildings in operation, to be subject to the so-called investigation and certification of energy performance. You know, a few years ago, when this Law was adopted in 2013. Its amendment, we then deliberately included to a large extent such an obligation to have only the buildings which are public and municipal and we did not forget, but ultimately we left the buildings that are in operation, and I am also talking about private ones, over 250 square meters of public and municipal buildings, to be outside the scope of this legislation. At first glance, people will say: "Yes, these people do not have the opportunity to make such an audit and certification cost and to introduce relevant energy measures that are necessary for energy efficiency and energy efficiency, but we are generally obliged as MPs, not only in terms of the formal act to meet the requirements of the European Commission, but also to take a step forward, as I believe each of us knows that one of the greatest opportunities for reducing electricity and heat consumption is precisely in saving one. Instead of years back, investing in many projects without going back to this topic and going into unnecessary controversy, but it is indeed a resource that can save every household. The bill does not provide for a specific deadline or a specific penalty precisely for these buildings outside public and private, which people will have to do as a cost, but nevertheless I believe that we must go and take this step forward. It is not a coincidence, since the last weeks have made serious criticism, namely in relation to the National Energy Efficiency Programme and whether it makes sense from it or not, it is very important to mention here that, beyond all things that this Programme can benefit from positive, it is precisely this certification and the measures that will lead to this of all buildings currently being made and having signed contracts, and for the future for those which the state, when providing funding, can be made, is precisely on the one hand the energy savings that will be obtained in these buildings. The other very important thing are those certificates that we are talking about energy performance, while the state will also be able to meet the communal goal, namely a 20% reduction in energy efficiency by 2020. I believe that the criticisms that have been received in recent weeks in relation to and rather against this National Programme and its establishment, and its idea is one of the most important objectives was precisely the country to respond through energy efficiency in residential buildings to the objective that has been set for us in the Agreement by 2020. Moreover, the draft itself takes a step further in this by means of alternative measures, namely it has already been mentioned in the reports, such alternative measures that can lead to an improvement in energy efficiency and, in fact, the achievement of this objective are different incentives or penalties, legislation, types of taxes, either as an incentive, or as a slight pressure to actually both public and private buildings and municipal buildings and owners to take such alternative measures, I say, which would precisely lead to the improvement of energy efficiency. In my view, it is very timely noted in the Bill that all orders that are recorded under the Public Procurement Act above 265 thousand. BGN, which are related to the supply of energy-related products used in these buildings or the contracting entities concerned to use high-performance products, namely to have such criteria in the order itself, that really lead to better energy efficiency. Colleagues, I think we should support the motives of the bill. We shouldn't be afraid of the fact that, you see, people didn't have that opportunity right now. Either way, it's for their own good, for the future of the country. Every household must follow this policy, this time precisely to improve energy efficiency, not only because the state must meet these criteria, but because this money will actually remain in households and instead of going to accounts, can be used in consumption, which will increase the consumption of the country, respectively. Colleagues, I call on, as we are also in the first vote, to support the principles of the bill not only, I say again, because of the transposition of European directives 27 and 31, but in order to move forward in every household, each building to be energy efficient and to contribute to a better living environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u156	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister Nikolov, honourable experts admitted to the Chamber, according to the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, you have the right to take the floor from the stands of the National Assembly. If you wish, give me a sign by raising your hand. Is there any other MP who would like to take part in the debate on the Law? I won't. There's a vote coming up. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs to take their seats. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act, No 602-01-72, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 November 2016. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister, honourable experts, for participating in today's meeting. We move on to the next item on the agenda and it is: For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: The first report is from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. He will introduce us to her chairman Mr. Rumen Hristov. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the people! I offer your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act No 654-01-129, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 21 October 2016. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 23 November 2016, discussing a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products, No 654-01-129, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 21 October 2016. In the Commission's work took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Georgi Ralchev From the Ministry of Economy Diana Naydenova, Director of the External Policy Directorate and experts. From the Ministry of Health Hristina Getova, state expert at the Department of Medical Policy. By the Ministry of Internal Affairs.. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister, and Petar Toshkov State Expert at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities. Member of the Customs Agency "Svetoslav Vladimirov" Head of the Department of Intelligence and Investigation of excise violations and Natasa Petrova Head of the Department of Alcohol, Drinks and Spirits. Representatives of NGOs were also present. The bill was presented by the MP Sultanka Petrova. The bill relates to the criminal procedure initiated by the European Commission for non-compliance with an obligation against the Republic of Bulgaria and aims to fully transpose the provisions of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the production, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC. The bill proposes the introduction of a ban on the placing on the market of herbal smoking products by requiring the Minister of Economy, together with the Minister of Health, to notify the European Commission within one month of the introduction of the ban under the terms and conditions of art. 24, § 3 of the Directive. The ban is envisaged to enter into force after a positive decision by the European Commission, including when the European Commission has not issued within 6 months of receipt of the notification. Parallel to this are transposed the provisions of art. Art. 21 and art. 22 of the Directive, creating a new chapter regulating smoking products other than tobacco products. The requirements of their consumer and external packaging, health warnings on them, the method of printing them and restrictions on the elements and distinguishing marks which may appear on the packaging are described. The information to be provided by manufacturers, importers and persons entering such articles in the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union should be provided to the Ministry of Economy. The relevant concept shall be introduced and it is explicitly stated that these are products based on plants, herbs or fruits which do not contain both tobacco and plants and substances prohibited by the Drug Control Act and precursors. Products already produced or released for circulation which do not comply with the requirements will be allowed to be placed on the market until the quantities are exhausted, but no later than 20 May 2017. It is envisaged that the newly established provisions concerning plant smoking products and related administrative criminal provisions should apply until the date of entry into force of the prohibition when the articles already placed are to be withdrawn from the market within three months. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports the Bill. The Ministry of Economy supports the Bill by stressing that, under the directive, the introduction of a ban on certain categories of products is permissible where the Member State concerned justifies that the provisions are justified in terms of public health protection. After verifying whether justified, necessary and proportionate grounds are presented and whether they do not constitute a restriction of trade between Member States, the Commission should approve or reject national provisions within six months. In this regard, the Ministry of Economy considers that the Office, which could provide evidence of the risk of addiction, toxicity and health risks associated with the use of herbal smoking products, in the light of functional competence, is the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health supports the introduction of the ban, given the possibility for plant smoking products to be used to distribute new psychoactive substances. They pay attention to the widespread distribution of so-called designer drugs and to the fact that some of them could be used to impregnate plant products with substances representing drug analogues created to circumvent the law by modification of existing chemical structures that are not yet covered by the Ordinance on the order of classification of plants and substances as drugs. The Ministry of Interior has no notes on the Bill. The Customs Agency considers that the concept should be in line with the definition in art. 2, §15 of the Directive and to be growing products for smoking. They point out that, under the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, goods composed wholly or partly of substances other than tobacco but meeting the requirements of the concept of tobacco smoking tobacco are also excise goods and subject to excise duty (e.g. tobacco for a bong containing no tobacco). In this respect, they consider that it should be assessed whether it is appropriate to introduce a prohibition on their placing on the market. After the vote, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, without a vote against the Council of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products, No 654-01-129, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 21 October 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. On behalf of the importers to protect the bill has the floor of the public representative Mr. Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will be very brief so that we can proceed to the vote on this bill, as my colleague Rumen Hristov in the Commission's opinion has explained almost everything that has happened to draw up this bill. However, I would like to tell you a few things because it is important that you know them. The directive had to be transposed into the Bulgarian legislation in May. Since then, there has been a penalty procedure, with the minimum fine under this procedure, if it enters into force, being 9,000. euros per day. I'm saying minimum. That is, if we do not accept this Bill and this Law, this means that from there Bulgaria goes to trial and in any case will be condemned. The texts in this Law are not made by me or by anyone else, they are produced by the Legal Directorate and experts in European law. As my colleague Rumen Hristov said, everything has been agreed by several working groups so that we can make such texts that are as good as possible and, naturally, to then apply the Law and a complete ban, as there are some dangers that the Bulgarian drug market will be flooded through these members of the European directive. However, left unregulated and unregulated the market without the relevant legislative texts, the danger is even greater because there is no regulation to counter it. So I'll be brief and stop here. I call on my colleagues not to enter into any debate. The law is consensual, again I say it is not done by us, it is legal by the Legal Directorate of the National Assembly and experts in European law, to proceed to a vote so that we can adopt these norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u160	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. This was the opinion of the importer. I'm opening the debate. Are there any Members of the National Assembly who wish to take an opinion on the draft law in question? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act No 654-01-129, submitted by Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs on 21 October 2016. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be examined at a second vote in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u162	A reverse opinion? This issue was also discussed at the Conference of Presidents. There's no reverse opinion. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to consider the draft in this plenary sitting at second reading. Vote 71 MPs: for 69, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Hristov, please report the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I offer to your attention the Law on Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products, amending and supplementing the Law on Tobacco, Tobacco and the related articles in the second vote. I propose that the name be voted first, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u164	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of Are there any suggestions regarding the name? I'm voting on the name of the Law. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u165	................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 31b: Art. 31b. The placing on the market of smoking products other than tobacco products shall be prohibited. § 2. Chapter 13 is created with art. 43k: "Chapter 13" Smoking products other than tobacco Art. 43rd. (1) A health warning shall be placed on each consumer packaging and on each external packaging of smoking products other than tobacco products: the smoking of this article harms your health. (2) The health warning under para. 1 must: 1. shall be printed on the front and rear outer surface of the consumer packaging and on each outer packaging; 2. is printed in Bulgarian in black dense font "Helvetica" on white background; 3. cover 30 percent of the area of the respective surface of the consumer packaging and of each outer packaging. (3) The packaging and outer packaging of herbal smoking products must not: 1. include the elements or distinguishing marks under art. 35g, ) (a.k.a. 1, t. 1 - 3 and 5; 2. indicate that there are no additives or fragrances in the product. Art. 43k. (1) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, smoking products other than tobacco products shall submit to the Ministry of Economy: 1. a list of all ingredients and their quantities used in the manufacture of such products, for each brand and for each type; 2. a statement that the smoking product does not contain plants or substances which may be classified as narcotics. (2) Manufacturers, importers and persons entering the territory of the country from another Member State of the European Union, smoking products other than tobacco products shall inform the Ministry of Economy if the composition of an article is changed in a way that affects the information under para. 1. (3) The information under para. 1 and 2 shall be provided under conditions and in order laid down in the Rules of Law Implementation. (4) The Ministry of Economy shall publish on its website the information under para. 1 and 2 and part of the register under art. 43a, para. 8, except for information which is commercial secrecy. (5) The employees processing and storing the information under para. 1 and 2 are obliged not to disclose the information and facts which have become known to them regarding the performance of their duties, except where provided for by a law or at the written request of a public authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u166	Statements referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 1 and 2. Vote 75 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u167	Dear Mr President, allow me to make a proposal to extend the working time until the adoption of the Law, which is short and, as I can see, there are no comments on its texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u168	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote a procedural proposal to extend the time until this bill is adopted. Voting mode. Vote 80 MPs: 70 against 4, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u169	.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51b after the word "pushing', the words "pushing' shall be added, other than tobacco products, and the words "pushing' shall be added. 43c - 43z Art. 43c - 43i and Art. 43c. 43k, para. One and two. § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51c after the words "al." Article 8 (c) is amended as follows: 43k, para. Five o'clock. § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Article 2 shall be added at the end. Article 51c concerning Art. 35b, para. The following information is available in the 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 prior to the words................................................................................ 51b "The Union....................................................................................................... 43z "s' are replaced by "shut up'. Art. 43h. 43k, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. Article 51c concerning Art. 43k, para. Five o'clock. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 words................................................................................. 43c - 43z 43c - 43i. § 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words.............................................................................. 43c - 43z 43c - 43i. 2. In para. 3 the words "refilling containers' shall be replaced by "refilling containers' and "refilling goods' other than "smoking goods', and the words "art' shall be replaced by "refilling containers'. 43e - 43z 43e-43e. 3. In para. 5 after the words. Art. 43 (d) is added. 43. § 7. Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 the words "and the liquids containing' shall be replaced by the quantities containing nicotine and tobacco products other than tobacco products. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 24 words.................................................................... 43z, para. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official 3. A t is created. 46: ..46. "Smoking products other than tobacco products' are articles based on plants, herbs or fruits which do not contain tobacco, as well as plants and substances prohibited by the Drug Control Act and precursors and which can be consumed through a combustion process.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u170	Are there any statements under paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, as reported by the President of the Committee on Agriculture. Please, voting mode. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Carry on with the "Transitional and final provisions."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u171	"Transitional and final provisions' ................................................................................... Smoking products other than tobacco products which do not comply with the requirements of this Act and are produced or released for free circulation until it enters into force may continue to be placed on the market until the quantities are exhausted, but not later than 20 May 2017. § 9. Within one month of the entry into force of this Law, the Minister of Economy, together with the Minister of Health, shall inform the European Commission of the introduction of a ban on the placing on the market of smoking products other than tobacco products under the conditions and under the terms of art. 24, para. 3 of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the production, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products and repealing Directive 2001/37/EC. § 10. (1) Paragraph 1 shall enter into force three days after the positive decision by the European Commission under the procedure under § 9. There is also a positive decision when the European Commission has not delivered within 6 months of receipt of the notification under § 9. (2) The provisions of Chapter 13 and related administrative criminal provisions shall apply until the date of entry into force of § 1. (3) The Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Health shall make public on their websites the positive decision of the European Commission under the procedure under § 9 within the period under para. 1. (4) Smoking products other than tobacco products placed on the market until the entry into force of § 1 shall be withdrawn from the market no later than three months after its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-07.u172	Are there any requests for a statement on Transitional and Final Provisions.... paragraphs 8, 9 and 10? I won't. I put to the vote the name "Transitional and Final Provisions" and paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 of the Bill. Vote 76 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 2. Thus, the Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act No 654-01-129 was also adopted at second reading. Due to the expiry of the time foreseen for plenary, the same is to be closed. I am announcing a next meeting tomorrow, Thursday, 8 December 2016, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
