ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u1	Good morning, colleagues. Please register. Abort registration. Second attempt at 9:15 p.m. Found at 9:16 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u2	Colleagues, trying to register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of the National Assembly, on 7 July 2016 in the National Assembly. No AD 627-00-3 has been requested by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov for permission to provoke prosecution against the MP Alexander Hristov Metodiev. The same was done on file No 11572 of 2016 according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office for a crime committed under art. 270, para. 1 in relation to art. 26, para. 1 of the Penal Code and crime under art. 325, para. 1 in relation to art. 20, para. 2 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code. By letter dated 7 July 2016, I informed the MP Aleksandar Metodiev of the request and the opportunity to get acquainted with it and the attached materials. The National Assembly will decide on the request by the Prosecutor General, subject to the time limit laid down in art. 134, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure, if no written consent has been received by the Member of the National Assembly by then. And another message. On 6 July 2016 the National Statistical Institute received information on key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria as of 6 July 2016. The material is available in the Library of the National Assembly. According to our weekly programme and what was deliberately adopted on this occasion in yesterday's meeting, the decision as first item for today is set: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROECT FOR CONCESSIONS, No 602-01-29. Date of designation referred to in Article 2 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Reports have been received from the committees to which it has been assigned. There are no reports from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. A report by the leading Committee on Legal Affairs will be presented to us by Mr. Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u3	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Law on concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016. At its meeting held on 29 June 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Law on concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016. The meeting was attended by: the Council of Ministers: Mrs. Marieta Germanska, Director of the Directorate of Economic and Social Policy and Ms. Mariana Slavkova and Mr. Georgi Yonchev, State experts at the same Directorate; Mr. Ivan Sotirov, Director of the Directorate of Economic and Social Policy; Mr. Krasimir Georgiev, Attorney; Mrs. Jana Velichkova, Executive Director, and Mr. Zhivko Antonov, President; Mrs. Nadia Lazarova, Advisor of Politics and Legislative Affairs, and Mrs. Oleg Temnikov, Attorney, and Mrs. Tanya Buseva, Professor at Sofia University. The bill was presented by Ms. Marieta German and Ms. Mariana Slavkova. The proposed Draft Law introduces in the Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts, hereinafter "the directive on concessionaires', which is part of the legislative package of the European Union for reforming public procurement law and concessions, together with Directive 2014/24/EU on public procurement and Directive 2014/24/EU on the award of contracts by sectoral contracting entities. It aims to improve the provisions in force on concessions and proposes the annulment of the Law on concessions due to the large number of amendments, as well as the Law on Public-Private Partnership, as an essential part of the matter covered by it is subject to the framework of the Convention. The bill proposes two main forms of public-private partnership with which a public partner (public authority) awards works or services to an economic operator and the concession for use, which is the traditional concession in accordance with the existing concession law, which is granted for sites owned by the State and the municipalities, regardless of whether that property is public or private. The scope of concessions is extended, with the so-called "non-only financing concession' covered by the works and services concessions, which are currently governed as public-private partnership contracts with the Public-Private Partnership Act. These concessions for the services provided by the concessionaire are not due to direct payments by consumers and therefore the public partner makes payments to the concessionaire. The concession directive introduces a threshold of EUR 5 225 000, with concessions above that threshold being of cross-border interest, and therefore all other concessions for works and services below that threshold, as well as concessions for use, are defined as concessions without cross-border interest. The bill provides for concessions to be awarded by the ministers and mayors of municipalities, such as the Council of Ministers and the municipal councils retain their powers to approve pre-defined decisions. Each concession is intended to be for a specified period and its specific duration is determined in the procedure for determining the concessionaire and cannot be more than the maximum period fixed at the opening of the procedure by the decision of the concession. The bill also provides additional guarantees as a permission by the National Assembly where the maximum period laid down by the concession exceeds 50 years. With regard to municipal concessions, when the maximum period is over 25 years, approval of it is proposed by a majority of 2/3 of the municipal councilors, and when the period is over 50 years, except for the permission of the municipal council, permission from the National Assembly is also required. The bill proposes, in addition to the open procedure, the introduction of the competitive dialogue procedure and the competitive procedure with negotiation. The proposed Draft creates prerequisites for carrying out more quality and effective control, with the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control being burdened with control functions for the implementation of concession contracts. An extension of publicity is proposed, with the National Concession Register being upgraded in order to become a centralised administrative information system. It will publish both information on the implementation of the contracts and information on the conduct of concession award procedures. It is also envisaged that tenders and applications should be submitted as electronic documents for a smoother transition to electronic services. The Committee on Legal Affairs received opinions from the Association of Non-alcoholic Beverage Producers in Bulgaria and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. During the discussion Mr. Delchev asked two questions to the importers. The first was about the possibility of creating conditions for manipulation in cases where the concession determines the maximum duration of the concession, and the second was about the order in which public-private partnerships would be governed after the annulment of the Public-Private Partnership Act. In response to the first question, Mrs. Nemska pointed out that the Directive does not provide for a deadline and the intended limitation is that the concession is granted with a deadline, i.e. There is always a deadline and it is bound by the economic balance of interests and the return on investment. She added that the Bill provides that when the maximum duration of the concession is over 50 years, determined on the basis of the financial and economic model of the concession, permission from the National Assembly should be obtained. Mrs. Slavkova explained with regard to the second question that the public-private partnership under the existing Public-Private Partnership Act falls within the definition of concession for construction and service, which is introduced by the concession directive and therefore there is no need to have two laws governing the same matter. Furthermore, the Act in force refers to procedures under the Public Procurement Act which are not suitable for complex and long-term contracts such as public-private partnership contracts. In response to a question raised by Mr. Georgiev as to whether the rule that he who acquires a commercial discovery is maintained to receive the concession without a competitive procedure, Mrs. Nemska clarified that a commercial discovery in the study of underground riches does not fall within the scope of the Law on concessions, as the underground riches governed by the Law on Underground Treasures and Underlaws are explicitly excluded from its scope. Mr. Kirilov noted that the proposed bill is serious, meaningful and fundamental. In addition to introducing the requirements of European legislation, much of the accumulated problems in matter should be solved. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and 5 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Law on concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u4	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. With regard to the reports of the accompanying committees, please provide a summary without repeating the reasons of the bill. Having heard the comprehensive report of the leading Committee on Legal Affairs, the House's interest is the debate on individual committees. Following is a report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u5	♪ I can't believe on the Law on concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016. At its regular meeting on 6 July 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Law on concessions. The meeting was attended by Marieta Nemska, Director of the Economic and Social Policy Directorate at the Council of Ministers, Mariana Slavkova and Georgi Yonchev, State experts in the same Directorate, Emil Karanikolov, Executive Director of the Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, prof. Krastyo Petkov from the Union of Economists in Bulgaria and Jeana Velichkova from the Association of Non-alcoholic Beverage Producers. The Law provides for the annulment of the Law on concessions and the Law on Public-Private Partnership because of the approach adopted for the adoption of a new Law on concessions to introduce the numerous requirements of Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts and at the same time to be in compliance with the Law on Regulatory Acts. The main distinction of concessions is according to their subject-matter: for construction, for services, for the use of state and municipal property. The requirements of the concession directive are applicable only to works concessions and service concessions which are equal to or higher than EUR 5,225 000. In view of the subject matter and specifics of concessions for the extraction of underground riches, they are excluded from the scope of the Law. Any decision of the concession under the concession procedure shall be subject to appeal, as well as the decisions of the Committee on the exclusion of candidates from participation in competition with negotiation and in the relevant dialogue. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism received written opinions on the draft Law from the National Association of Municipalities and the American Chamber of Commerce in Bulgaria. The National Association of Municipalities generally supports the introduction of a new unified approach in the settlement of public relations in the area of concessions, but in order to ensure the public interest insist on the draft in a unconditional way regulating the powers of all competent authorities having functions in monitoring and controlling concessions. The American Chamber of Commerce in Bulgaria is of the opinion that no overall assessment of the impact of the bill has been made by making concrete proposals and comments on it. During the discussion the Vice-President of the Commission Dimitar Bajraktarov asked a question about the amendment provided for in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, namely the municipal council with a decision to be able to determine which local fees established by law are to be collected by the concessionaire entrusted with the provision of the services for which these fees are paid. He expressed the concern that concessionaires would have access to the personal data of the population without being personal data controllers, and suggested between the first and second votes of the Bill the text to be refined. People's representative Martin Dimitrov objected to the fact that the concession holders were alternate ministers or mayors of municipalities, arguing that the control of the grant of concessions was thus reduced. In response, it was stated that no procedure could be opened for the determination of the concessionaire which was not included in the Action Plan for State concessions, respectively in the Action Plan for municipal concessions, which is a kind of guarantee. People's representative Chavdar Peychev asked if there was an analysis on the increase of the maximum period for granting concessions from 35 to 50 more years and does this not make the concession practically unlimited. It was answered that the duration of such concessions was determined in coordination with the Minister of Finance and the competent authority and after preliminary analysis. Principled disagreement with the Bill expressed Prof. Krastyo Petkov on behalf of the Union of Economists in Bulgaria and Jeana Velichkova from the Association of Non-alcoholic Beverage Producers. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results:.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt the Law on concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u6	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Following is a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u7	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on the Law on concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 30 June 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law on concessions. The proposed new Law is in accordance with Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts. The analysis of the legislation relating to concessions showed weaknesses which largely stem from the practice of concession to provide either natural resources or existing infrastructure sites. So far, no concession has been submitted for construction for a significant infrastructure establishment, which means that the concession institute is not used effectively for its main purpose. The bill repealed the current law on concessions and the Law on Public-Private Partnership, as it reorganised the public relations governed by them. An opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria was submitted to the Commission, expressing principle support for the introduction of a new, unified approach in regulating public relations related to the granting of concessions. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 9 votes for the Council of Ministers, without the opposition and 4 votes, proposed to the National Assembly a Draft for concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u8	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Following is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u9	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, I present to you: ♪ I can't believe under the Law on concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016. At a meeting held on 30 June 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on concessions submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Directorate of Economic and Social Policy at the Council of Ministers: Marieta Germanska Director and Mariana Slavkova State Expert, as well as Dr Tanya Buseva lecturer at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Ms. Mariana Slavkova. The Law defines three main types of concessions: for works, for services and concessions for use. The bill clearly defines the scope of the public-private partnership and prevents the annulment of the Public-Private Partnership Act as a public-private partnership to define contracts which have the characteristics of concessions. The scope of concessions includes the so-called non-financing contracts, which are currently governed by the Public-Private Partnership Act. These are contracts where there are no consumers or consumers who do not owe a price or remuneration for the services they receive. In order to be interested in such concessions, the Bill provides for the payment of remuneration by the concession to the concession holder to cover its construction costs and then to operate the construction and/or services. Special attention is paid to the financial and economic elements of the concession in the Bill. The concept of value of the concession shall be introduced. This is the total turnover of the concessionaire for the entire duration of the contract. One of the most important financial and economic elements of the concession is the operational risk. Operating risk presents a risk of exposure to market fluctuations on demand and/or supply of works and services subject to the contract. The operating risk shall be considered to be a poet when, under normal operating conditions, the concessionaire is not guaranteed that it will recover the investments and the operating costs it has incurred to carry out the works or services subject to the contract. Provision shall be made for the full transfer to electronic award of concessions, specifying that applications and tenders shall be submitted in the form of electronic documents. There are several amendments to several laws, the more substantial of which are the State Property Act and the Municipal Property Act, where, given the annulment of the Public-Private Partnership Act, it is possible for the State and municipalities to participate in mixed companies, since so far this has been prohibited. In this regard, restrictions shall be introduced in all cases where the State or the municipality participates in a non-cash contribution. First, the non-cash contribution can only be in the form of fixed-term limited property rights for the duration of the concession when it is subject to concession. And in any case, where the public-private partnership is concluded outside the concession procedure, the requirement is to have a blocking quota of the State and of the municipality for the most important decisions, including on the disposal of the subject matter of the non-cash contribution. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a Draft for concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u10	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. A report from the Environment and Water Commission is next. Mr. Svilen Ivanov, Vice-President of the Commission, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe in the first vote on the Law on concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016 At its regular meeting held on 30 June 2016, the Environment and Water Commission examined at first reading the Law on concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016 and allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs as the lead. The meeting was attended by: from the Council of Ministers Marieta Germanska, Director of Economic and Social Policy, Mariana Slavkova and Georgi Yonchev, State experts in the same Directorate; from the Ministry of Environment and Waters, Atanaska Nikolova, Deputy Minister and Ivaylo Petkov, Secretary of State; from the Association of Non-alcoholic Beverage Producers in Bulgaria, Jeana Velichkova and Zhivko Antonov. On behalf of the importer, the Bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Mr. Yonchev, who pointed out that the EU-level concession directive adopted a new regulation of concession contracts, which was first regulated in an independent act. It gives rise to the current framework of matter for concessions under the repealed Directive (EC), which makes the differences between the national regulations in force and the new system of concessions at Community level. The proposed new Law on concessions aims to attract private capital for the execution of works and services. The concession is the most effective form to ensure the lack of funds for public investment in construction and services, which has been demonstrated within the EU. With the implementation of the new Law, the budget allocated by the State will be spent significantly more effectively by their management by economic operators at the best price-quality ratio. With the award of the so-called self-financing and self-financing facilities, a significant financial resource will be released from the budget, which will be redirected to finance other urgent public needs. The attitude on the submitted bill took Ms. Jana Velichkova, who presented the opinion of the Association, the People's Representative Chavdar Georgiev, the People's Representative Borislav Velikov, the People's Representative Georgi Bozhinov, Mrs. Nikolova, who expressed the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Water and answered questions about concessions in protected areas and concessions of mineral waters; MPs Willi Lilkov, Stanislav Ivanov and Manol Genov. The Vice-President of the Commission Svilen Ivanov announced that the proposed and discussed reasoned concrete proposals can be submitted to the committee responsible, which will consider them between the first and second votes and can also establish a working group for this. After the end of the discussions and the voting procedure, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 10 votes....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Following is a report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Mr. Ananiev, I will ask you briefly only where specific issues related to the subject of your Commission are concerned. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u13	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the Law on concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 6 July 2016, a Draft Law on concessions was discussed, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016. Guests are almost the same people who attended the other committees. The draft repealed the current Law on concessions and the Public-Private Partnership Act, as it reorganised the public relations regulated with them. In short, as the report is longer, I will read: The Commission received an opinion from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria (NSORB). It shares the need and, in principle, supports the introduction of a new, uniform approach to regulating public relations relating to the provision, implementation and termination of concessions in order to protect the public interest. Specific proposals have been made in the opinion to improve provisions to be taken into account when considering the bill at second reading. Mr. Ananiev put the following questions to the importers of the bill to be taken into account when preparing the bill at second reading. The first issue of these is that the Law provides for a new model of procedures that can be assessed in a double way, on the one hand, the new procedures, which include direct negotiation between a concession holder and admitted participants, allow for a flexible definition of concession conditions. On the other hand, however, the possibility of direct contact between administration and participant is created and this is a prerequisite for corruption or corruption practices. The information exchanged between the Parties or any other means of protection shall not be entered in the register. Similarly, risks exist under the new rule that, if a private person has developed the conditions for concession, he is entitled to receive money if he is not chosen as concessionaire. On the one hand, it is a work for the benefit of the State to be paid. On the other hand, it creates an opportunity for private individuals at their discretion to create a product for the benefit of the State, but to use it for selfish purposes. According to Mr. Ananiev, in the proposed draft the problem places are mainly when determining the time limits for the concession is not introduced a single maximum period and instead a different regime has been adopted. For example, there is no time limit for works and services concessions. It also impresses the modification of the approach to settling documents that are sufficient evidence of certain facts.. e.g. the current Law provides that the annual financial statement proves a financial situation. The bill introduces very general exclusion criteria from the procedure, which could lead to administrative arbitrariness. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69 for example, a new criterion has been introduced for assessing the offers of social benefit, without having precise indicators on which it can be established. There are also problems of a technical nature........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... According to Mr. Ananiev, the grounds for declaring the concession contract invalid have been formulated quite closely There is a lack of the subsidiary ground known by the Public Procurement Act (SIP).. The concession contract is invalid when a breach has been committed in the procedure, which has wrongfully wronged one of the candidates and has not allowed it to participate, or a participant has been removed for no reason. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 it is settled that a concession contract which is not planned is not allowed, but the breach of this rule is not grounds for declaring the contract invalid. art. 179. In the course of the discussion were included MPs and experts who supported the proposed bill. They assessed the efforts made towards developing a predictable, transparent and more effective legislative framework that would regulate key to the development of our country's economy. It has been noted that the new regulations create better prerequisites for granting concessions to important infrastructure projects for the state and municipalities and their realization in terms of public-private partnership. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes, 2 votes against the Council of Ministers and 1 vote abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Law on concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u14	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. The report was brief, but meaningful. Following is a report from the Energy Commission. Actually, this is the last report. He'll introduce us to her chairman Mr. Dobrev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u15	Honourable Members, {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} for the first vote on the Law on concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016. At its regular meeting on 30 June 2016, the Energy Commission examined the Law on concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016. The meeting was attended by: from the Council of Ministers: Mrs. Marieta Germanska, Director of the Economic and Social Policy Directorate and Mr. Nikolay Aleksiev from the Deputy Prime Minister's office Mr. Tomislav Donchev. The bill was presented by Mrs Marietta German. The proposed Bill introduces the requirements of Directive 2014/23 of the European Union and of the European Parliament for the award of concession contracts. The bill was developed in accordance with the concept adopted by the Interdepartmental Working Group on possible legislative solutions in the area of concessions and public-private partnership. Experts from the state administration, the National Association of Municipalities, NGOs and non-profit companies participated in the working group. In this case, a whole new law is proposed, which essentially brings together the existing framework for concessions and public-private partnership. The new Law repealed the Public-Private Partnership Act (PPP), as an essential part of the matter covered by it falls within the characteristics of concessions. The draft is structured into nine chapters without the need for additional adoption of the Rules for its implementation, providing only for the adoption of two regulations to further develop the financial and economic elements of the concession and the procedure for carrying out monitoring, management and control. It defines three main types of concessions according to their subject-matter, a concession for works, a concession for services and a concession for the use of state and municipal property. The draft introduces the concept of a "European threshold', which represents the sum of 5 million. Two hundred and fifty-five thousand. EUR, which is defined as a distinction criterion. The concessions above this threshold are defined as concessions of cross-border interest. The concessions of cross-border interest shall apply the requirements for publication of a notice on them in the Official Journal of the European Union. The concept of "Concedent" is preserved by putting in other content. Concedents will be ministers and mayors of municipalities. The decisions to initiate the procedure and to determine the concessionaire will be approved by the Council of Ministers, respectively by the municipal council. The Law draws attention to the financial economic elements of the concession: value of the concession, way of determining the estimated value of the concession, operational risk, duration of the concession, economic balance, payments from the concession holder to the concession and from the concession to the concession holder. An important feature of the concession is taking the operational risk of the concessionaire. It shall always be carried by it in the case of a concession for works and a concession for services and shall constitute a risk of exposing market fluctuations to the demand or supply of the site of the concession or services. The operating risk shall be considered to be a poet where, under normal conditions of operation with the concession contract, it is not guaranteed to the concessionaire that it will restore the investments made and the costs of the operation and the services covered by the concession. In the case of a concession for construction, the concessionaire also always assumes the construction risk. Each concession has a fixed deadline. The duration of the concession will be determined in advance by the notice of the procedure and will be based on the financial and economic analysis drawn up by the concession and this will be the maximum period on which the participants in the procedure will compete. That is to say, this period within the procedure itself will be reduced because it is intended to be a mandatory criterion when determining the successful applicant for concessionaire. The concession where the financial and economic analysis and the concession prove that they have a period of return over 50 years, then the notice must be approved by the National Assembly. For municipal concessions, the concession period over 25 years is approved by the municipal council. The control of concessions granted shall be increased, including the Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. It will exercise independent control over both concessionaires and concessionaires. Conditions are created for much greater publicity and transparency of the process, and it is envisaged that every step with all documents should be uploaded to the National concession register. It will be upgraded as an administrative information system that will contain the notice with all the concession documents and each one will have full free access to all the documentation. Any decision of the committees to conduct procedures will also be published on the website of the National concession register. In this regard, anyone interested will be able to monitor at any time the concession rights procedure. The Law on concessions does not in any way concern underground wealth and the granting of rights to underground wealth are not subject to settlement by this Law. After the discussion and on the basis of the vote held, the Energy Committee, with 6 votes.........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u16	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. With this, the committee reports have been exhausted. Dear colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Since there are many willing, please ask for preliminary requests by raising your hand or writing on the stands. First to speak was the People's Representative Yanaki Stoilov. Here you are, Mr. Stoilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u17	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! We are going to discuss one of the most complex and most important Laws about concessions. There is reason for adopting a new Law on concessions, including because of the adoption of the European Union directive. In order to be objective, I must point out that the Bill provides for a number of necessary and successful solutions such as the settlement of operational and construction risks, the establishment of the national concession register and others. I believe that our role as opposition is to highlight, above all, what the bill misses or fails to overcome the many problems accumulated over the years. The aim of creating opportunities for a concession for construction seems to include only complementary basics, to call them constitutional concessions. In this sense, the proposed bill does not start and does not follow the logic of the Constitution of the basic Law, because it has exclusive state property, has sovereign rights which the State exercises, has monopoly activities. These are concessions that must be settled before everyone else. They are mentioned only in the section of the types of concessions for the granting of state or municipal property, or of sites for use. This bill should be dealt with in the complex of a number of others along with the Law on Underground Treasures, the Water Act, the Law on Management of the Black Sea Coast, the Law on Privatizations and others. Before discussing the new regulations, we need to answer the question: will the newly adopted Law help to end or at least severely limited the previously unfortunate practices in concessions for the last two decades? In this respect, other organisations, besides us, have noticed that there is no overall impact assessment. I'm just gonna remind you what kind of problems we're facing. Granted without auction or competition between 400 and 500 fields of underground wealth; 67 mining concessions by law under privatisation transactions. These are devastating data that show why the financial resources in Bulgaria are always short and why people's incomes are low. Contracts for exploration of fields through which, in many cases in substance, for months and years, extraction is carried out, which is not paid by those who benefit from it. The levels of concessions in different industries are not publicly presented at concession fees. Why have importers not done such an examination in the reasons of the Bill to tell us what these levels are in individual activities and how they stand compared to other European countries? Because then it will turn out that the levels of concession fees in a number of cases in our country are lower than in a number of African countries?! Extracting valuable ingredients, especially in the case of mining minerals, for which no penny is paid, because there are many such ingredients that are then processed and from which additional income is derived. Lack of requirement for processing acquired industries, this topic was discussed in the forests. This is no longer a question of the Law itself, but it is a question of a requirement that, at the time of the conclusion of the concession contract, at least one minimum share be subject to primary and secondary processing or at least if this is not carried out by the concession holder, it is a requirement to carry out on the territory of the Party in order to obtain greater added value. As a result of all these practices, many of which will not be terminated after the adoption of the new Law, we are witnessing the embezzlement of natural public wealth and the plundering of the Bulgarian people. I even think that if there is a government that is sharply opposed to this already established practice, it will hardly be able to hold on long enough, but the only way to do so is if it announces these problems to Parliament and asks for broad support that I think can be obtained. I am afraid that such a critical majority is not formed, which can express and protect the Bulgarian national interests. The Law sets out the objectives and principles that are followed in the concessionation. There they are indeed said: equality, openness and so on, but the most important is the cost-effective use of the most important objects of state property and achieving maximum benefit for more people. This is the supreme principle that must be drawn up before all other procedural requirements, how concessions are announced, how negotiations are conducted and how contracts are concluded. Even to such an extent, the subject of concessions is extended through those for services that it will already be possible to outsource public activities, including the collection of municipal fees and other activities which were now a monopoly of the State. The new Law repeals the Public-Private Partnership Act and regulates public-private companies. In the beginning, this is a modern practice, which gives positive results in a number of European countries. However, how is this matter settled by importers? Article 22, para. 3 states: "The public-private company is managed by the private partner, and the public partner can also participate in the management." I ask myself: why are these texts being inserted, which put the state and public institutions again as a second category? The most normal is when there is a contract for a public private company, the partners in it to participate in the management. They can, of course, give each other this government to both the public and the private partner. In addition, investment companies are widely used in the world. In some cases, they have no interest in direct management, except that by contributing to ownership in guaranteed profitable sectors and thus also derive certain benefits. Such records are an echo with which we should have long ago separated and understood that each of the partners in the public-private company has equivalent weight and is subject to negotiation between them on how the management will be carried out. It is true that the public partner, regardless of his share in capital, has a blocking quota when making some of the most important decisions. Among them must be included the solution to distribution of profits, because the other problem of our unfortunate memories is that many of the companies, especially those that were privatized, in order to distribute revenue among the participants, did not form a profit and hence harmed a number of the shareholders. The distribution of profit itself should also be between those most important decisions in which partners participate. From now on, I would like to warn you that the creation of public private companies is at risk of becoming another mechanism for damaging the state. How are we going to do that to offer you, since a lot of lawyers must have figured it out by now?! The State or the municipality participates with a negligible share in the capital of this company and, as a result, it will not receive corresponding concession fees. The danger of paying a symbolic concession fee from a minor share of the private partner will make it so that it can be sought mainly because of this so that the large funds can go to the private partner. Therefore, special texts are needed to ensure the way in which both the fees and the revenues of the activity will be distributed. The financial and economic elements of the concession. It is said that when an object is owned by the State, notice, an obligation to pay a concession fee can also be provided, as is always the case with the contracts for use. I ask myself: what are these cases where it can be justified that the State provides its property for decades and negotiates not to receive a concession fee, and not in the case of a service activity where the services themselves really need to be supported and there is an explanation of such an approach? One of the most critical moments is the problem with deadlines. It must be clear that, in essence, this Bill allows for timeless concessions, because these deadlines can be of a century or more. In fact, the Bulgarian government offers us something like Hong Kong, Macau, or some other territories that will be sold for a century or more, after which we will expect if the Bulgarian nation survives these years, it will solemnly get them back. The committees say that there are some guarantees, however, when the contracts are 50 years up for the public sites and 25 years for the municipal sites, that then the concession can be concluded after a decision of the National Assembly, respectively of the municipal council. But I ask: who needs this modality? What do you mean you can do it? There will be lawyers who will prove that they can do without a decision. If the importers wanted to create an imperative that the concession was admissible only after a decision by the public authorities, they would have recorded that the concession offered these authorities a decision and then a concession was concluded. So these tricks that I notice in the Law, which are probably well crafted by lawyers to whom the government has assigned its preparation, create very sharp underwater stones in view of the public interest. Therefore, I think that when different specialists or law firms are attracted, which can assist in writing laws, the job given by the contracting authority is very important because otherwise, as well as many of the privatisation and concession contracts, projects are written not by the concession, by the contracting entity, but by those who have an interest in using them. This is also becoming a significant problem in our legislation. With regard to the terms of invalidity. Here, some of the Commission's opinions have rightly addressed the issue. However, I also place it wider because the Bill states that disputes are dealt with under the Civil Procedure Code, but it is very important what are the substantive grounds for invalidity. They cannot be exhausted only by violating the procedure. It was even noted that without the concession being included in the concession plan, it would not be invalid if a minister decided to proceed with such an action. Moreover, the Law on concessions itself cannot fully contain the grounds for invalidity. It must therefore refer accordingly to the head of the Commercial Law and to the Law on Obligations and Contracts, because there are described the main grounds for the invalidity of the contracts and they must largely apply to concession contracts. Without such reference and coverage, the interests of each of the two parties in those contracts will not be protected. Finally, honourable Members, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, attention must also be paid to the transitional regime. It is clear that, in the light of legal certainty, the new Law cannot have crossed out existing concession contracts, but I think it would have been much better for you to declare, if not as a legal record, it would have been for the government by sector to be entrusted to all ministers to review the existing concessions, to come up with an analysis that would have been provided further to other institutions and to use the possibility given in the Law, under certain conditions to ask for a re-negotiation of part of the concessions. Without such an effort, we will move in the momentum of current bad practices, albeit under a new law. Because of these motives and the shortcomings I have pointed out, which will probably be developed by my colleagues, the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria will not support the bill in this kind. I urge you to continue working on it if you want to protect the Bulgarian national interests in the economy through it and to have a sufficiently solid regime to carry out the concession work. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u18	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. You left about two minutes without extending your colleagues' time. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stoilov, I listened to you very carefully. In about one third of your speech, you did not actually speak according to the essence of the Law because you spoke about the Law on Underground Treasures, which is not subject to the Law on concessions. It is clearly written in the text of the Law on concessions that it does not treat the Law on Underground Treasures. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] I suggest that we do not enter into a detailed dispute under the Underground Treasures Act, although some of the data you exported was not sufficiently explained. For example, you mentioned 450, if I remember correctly, a concession by law. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] A concession by right without tender shall be obtained after a study has been completed and the one which has initially won the tender for the study and invested its own funds shall be entitled subsequently to receive a concession. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] And at the start of the procedure, before stocks are proven for anything in this country, an application shall be submitted by the interested party, an advert shall be published, a procedure shall be carried out, a search shall be made whether there are other interested parties and a competition shall be made between them. A legal concession shall be obtained only after the person who has won the initial procedure for the study has examined, proved to have stocks, invested his own funds and subsequently obtained the concession by right. With regard to the average concession fees. This topic has been discussed for a long time. It is rather related to concessions that went through privatisation, because in other cases after the amendments to the Law 7-8 years ago, the concession fees of the new concessions are in line with the average European levels, but again I say that this is a completely different topic. I also listened to some of your other arguments, which were essentially. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I disagree with most of them, but we can discuss it outside the procedure as I run out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u20	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Second line, Mr. Daniel Kirilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Dear Mr. Stoilov, I disagree with your reasoning regarding the public-private partnership and specifically on the establishment of a public-private company. We need to speak in full and objective terms, as proposed by the future regulatory framework. Note that in all these cases it is guaranteed and committed, no matter who the participants are, but it is imperative that the public partner has a blocking quota. I will just give an example of the case, the opposite of the Municipal Bank, where the municipality held 68% and another held the blocking quota. Now, in all these cases, the mandatory public partner, the public participant can block all the most important decisions. It has also not become clear here that the relationship that you say in the form of a company can be alleviated or reduced payment of concession fee. Nothing like this can happen. A fee is a fee. There's no connection between things. As well as, respectively, the distribution of the income from the activity. These are guaranteed quotas which the Commercial Law guarantees as the most general framework. With regard to this, is the management of the public partner necessarily unnecessary? If this company goes well, let the public partner only observe. I mean, even if he's only involved in the oversight, there's nothing to be involved in the management. Why waste state municipal resources on something that's going well? The point is, when it doesn't go well, we have the right guarantee. I don't agree with your interpretation of the terms, but that's what I'm going to talk about in the detailed statement. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I only ask that it be noted that the deadlines here are an element of competitiveness in the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u22	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u23	I'll start with Mr. Dobrev's line. Yes, the Law on Underground Treasures acts in parallel with the Law on concessions. It was better for me to make a closer correspondence between them to embrace this system of relationships complex. When I told you that for all these years there are between 400 and 500 contracts without auction or competition, these are data from competent state authorities. These aren't my studies or my ideas. And just one part of them, I can't tell what they are because of the studies they did and by right they acquired the concession. But that's probably the smaller part of what I'm talking about. In addition, if we go back to the very system of awarding the studies, we should remind ourselves that it was not a coincidence that the Committee for Geology had been liquidated in the first years after the changes, where very accurate information was stored. How you traded in these years with information, because it is one thing to start a clean study, and another is the case when you have data that it is very high probability that it will be successfully completed. So these are real problems. We need to ask no longer about the past, but now will laboratories be made to check what ores are exported or what alloys, because one is the concession that is given, others are the benefits that are derived? So I suggest that we reflect on the Law as texts, but I think that as economists it suits you even more to look for what are the problems that exist under the Law, because we can write texts that are completely European and our practices to remain unfavorable as well. Mr. Kirilov's notes. Yes, there is a blocking quota, I appreciate what is given, but I told you: when the share of the private partner in the public-private company is insignificant and it is able to fully implement the management, it can derive disproportionately large benefits, including the deduction of that part of the concession fee, in which it says that the State retains a large share and thus it will carry out the practical benefits of management and the concession fee will be reduced to a minimum. This practice is quite possible, and I therefore warn you before it even begins to take place. I would like to hear perhaps not from you, but from Minister Donchev, to give us an overview of what are the revenues from concession fees for the past years by industry, how they vary, what are the trends. Then we'll find out what to look for through the texts of the Law. So your notes also have reason, but I think we should approach impartially and not act like people who just need to push through some texts, but change these unfavorable practices in which they participate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u24	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Dear Assoc. Velikov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! It should really be as impartial as it should be. Stoilov suggested that we look at this Law on concessions, as I think this is a very serious bill, quite precise from a legal point of view and quite comprehensive. It is very likely that it will contribute to attracting private capital, as noted in the motives, and to extending the possibilities of using concession as a form of public-private partnership. In this way, our National Assembly, with the help of these experts and excellent lawyers who have helped draw up the texts, contribute to a stable legislation in this area, and thus avoid any reproach that this National Assembly does not create serious legislative texts. But, of course, some questions can be addressed, as mentioned by Assoc. Yanaki Stoilov, as in the lines. I will refer in particular to matters relating to concessions affecting the environment. I think there's a certain understatement here, or in any case, the tasks that are probably placed here on the collective that he's been developing have been such that they're resolved in this sense that we see them developed. But when it comes to example the third type of concessions, where are those related to the environment, even in art. 1 and 2 could indicate these concessions of the third kind and not only in art. 6 or even in the subject of mentioning that one of the objectives is the effective use and management of the sites that are state and municipal property, to be well managed, to bear income and so on, even more so, that this type of concessions will probably increase in the future. It is not possible for the state to create governance structures in all its sites and leave them almost alone instead of using the mechanisms of concessionation. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 The restrictions under which no concession can be granted are listed. This text is quite controversial, perhaps because it is too general as a wording. Here are all cases of threat to the health and life of people, threat to the environment, protected territories. In such general wordings, there is a risk that any concession may be challenged, declared inadmissible from the point of view of these restrictions and so on. It is better in this article to remain only national security and defence, and the requirement to exclude risks to people's lives and health, risks to the environment to be recorded in art. 49. And to refer specifically to the protected areas as inadmissible for concession, it seems not quite appropriate, so to speak softly. When it comes to the environment, I would also put the question of mineral water concessions. I also put it in the Committee on Environment and Water, probably in other committees, as this resource is very important, specific, extremely important are certain technical requirements, requirements for qualification of staff and others, which in the general requirements of this Bill, this Law, which will be adopted for all concessions, are missing. Obedience to the concessionation of waters to the general provisions of this Law creates prerequisites for omissions with unpredictable consequences. I therefore insist that we consider the concessionation of waters to remain in the Water Act, and that in this Law there is a reference to the Water Act, as there is a reference to underground riches, all the more so that mineral waters are obviously a kind of underground wealth, albeit in liquid form, and in many cases it is an underground wealth that is far more valuable than many other underground riches in a solid phase. There are other inaccuracies in the texts that can be mentioned between first and second readings. Here I will agree with Yanaki Stoilov for art. 22 since writing in one of the paragraphs that the concession can also participate in the management of the site, and in the next text to list the cases in which it is entitled to block the decisions, clearly means that in the case of a public-private partnership, the participant is involved in the management and not................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ In examining concessions and concession remuneration, there are also texts that can be improved. Clearly, this can be said for all of our texts. In conclusion, I think we can support this Bill at first reading, as it is a solid norm act that we will carry out in this National Assembly. Then between the first and second votes, not to rush, not to push everything through in two or three weeks, as the matter is very complicated and we have to be very precise to the end. Let us support it at first and be careful at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u26	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Next is the People's Representative Ivan Ivanov from the ABB Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Once again, we observe how a law of key importance for the state is quickly passed. I say this because the period for public consultation on the Law on concessions was extremely insufficient for a normal and meaningful public debate. We are afraid that the short term has not enabled opinions and recommendations from the non-governmental sector and business, much of which are good and must be reflected. In this case, however, it is not only the short term that is worrying, because when we get acquainted with the Bill, we note that much of the texts in it are not well argued and create prerequisites for damaging the state interest. We believe that these controversial and dubious texts should be dropped, as they are not beneficial to the state, business and above all to society! Our motives for this request are dictated by the following amended texts in the Bill, which aim to create conditions for timeless and comprehensive control of private individuals over the management of public resources and property. In this way, concessionaires will benefit by acquiring ownership. As a result, it may: - to create eternal concessions by removing the regulatory maximum duration of works and services concessions, which is currently 35 years; - to eliminate any procedures for participation of the public and Bulgarian citizens in the decision-making process for the provision of public resources under concession; - to transfer the responsibility for granting concessions by the collective bodies to individual ministers and mayors, thereby losing its transparency and creating numerous doubts about possible abuses; - grant unlimited rights to the concessionaire and to the adjacent territories of public networks of technical infrastructure; - to enable the concessionaire to be a company with the participation of the State or the municipality and to dispose of public property, which means that the operational risk is partly transferred back to the public authority. This text is contrary to the concessions Directive, according to which concessionaires receive revenue from the operation of the site and concessionaires bear the operational risk. With the possible approval of such written texts, the conditions for corruption in the country can be encouraged. The adoption of the Law will continue the practice of plundering state wealth for pennies. We are not against the investment in the state, we are even for this to happen, but with strong respect for the rules and fair payment of market prices for all concessions. One important answer should also be given, and it is whether the Council of Ministers in charge has taken into account the in-depth report of about 170 pages of the Center for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption and Organized Crime for the Regulations and Procedures for Concession in the Republic of Bulgaria. The amendments envisaged to be introduced by the Law on concessions must be publicly discussed and must be extended for this purpose to the maximum extent between the first and second votes of the proposed Law. For these reasons, the ABB Parliamentary Group will refrain from supporting the first vote on the proposed bill. We are ready to join the working groups between the first and second votes on the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u28	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. People's representative Dimitar Bajraktarov come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, today we are looking at an extremely important and very complex Draft Law on concessions. Naturally, we also need to answer a more important question: does Bulgaria need a modern and good Law on concessions, a Law to enable investments to be drawn, a Law by which to give an opportunity for the release of public resources to increase the standard of living of the Bulgarian people? Yes, we do! In fact, these are the motives of the importer, but, as the law says, so far the good intentions end. To be as precise as possible, honourable Members, although under our Rules of Procedure today we need to comment on the philosophy of the Bill in order for it to be justified, today I will make the effort to highlight specific articles of this Law in order to make it clear to all Members of the National Assembly and also to the Bulgarian media, which seem to have no interest in this important Law. It would be right for me to start with information that in the past years in Bulgaria there are 485 concession contracts and the revenues from them belong to the totals of 87 million. BGN, i.e. we see that the current Law on concessions and the Law on Public-Private Partnership have not met the expectations set out in them. However, will our proposed bill meet these expectations of society, the Bulgarian state? Will the interests of the state and the Bulgarian people be protected to the maximum extent? I am opening a clamp in support of what my colleague Yanaki Stoilov said. Perhaps some have forgotten that a few years ago a concession was granted to a company with the modest capital of BGN 2. to study the Silistar field. The information about Silistar has been clear since 1964, as I have it personally from the professor who conducted the research. They know there's a gas field there. Even the quantities are known. But notice, on this firm with 2 leva. the capital was granted a concession and only under public pressure was it terminated. Further on, honourable Members, we are going to art. 13. Here we have a very interesting play in para. 2 which gives the rights to reserved concessions. However, honourable fellow importers, why did no one accidentally bother to insert a text to counteract the abuse of these rights and this right? How come no one thought about it and left this door open? Moving on, fellow Members. Colleague Yanaki Stoilov affected art. 22. However, you have not touched on, colleague, another important detail in this article. 23 " Why has the liability of the public partner in this public company not been settled by chance? Why is only the responsibility of the private partner affected and not of the public? And here I can give you drastic examples. The municipality of Bourgas is a special leader in this regard. It has become levels of a modern facility thanks to such a public-private partnership. Moving on, we're going to a very interesting article. 30 by which text, honourable Members, the balance between concessions granted for services and concessions granted for works must be regulated. And here, by chance, it is not established who and how will track this balance. That is, in the text itself is that such a balance simply will not exist, it is only a good wish in art. 30. The other question is also very interesting: what methodology will calculate the estimated value and where is this methodology settled? Again, answers I don't know where or how we're gonna find. It's interesting. 32, in which, if you have read t. 2, para. 2, is open one also interesting door. And notice, through the notion of a socially acceptable price. There are respected lawyers here, there are respected economists who can answer me what is this concept of a socially acceptable price? Who determines it? By what methodology does this concept define a socially acceptable price? Or will it be socially acceptable to the potential concessionaire, who will come to Bulgaria and leave a millionaire or billionaire? And for him, indeed, that price would be socially acceptable. However, I do not wish to participate in the film The poor millionaire in Bulgaria. Let's continue with art. 34. At first glance, you will see that the texts are well regulated. But when I read it carefully, I'd say this is where Pandora's big box opens with this article. 34. Because practically through this article. 34, honourable Members, if we adopt this Law, we actually allow for unlimited concession. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Definitely law again. And someday, without knowing it here, in some transitional and final provisions of some of the laws, we will legitimize this timeless concession of someone who will benefit from a socially acceptable price. Of course, in art. 33 again affected this socially acceptable price that no one has in any way told us. In order not to bore you, I will draw attention to a moment in § 17, honourable colleagues, whom my colleague Yanaki Stoilov modestly described as outsourcing the collection of fees. However, I cannot skip this serious moment in § 17, because, honourable Members, a new para is introduced in § 17. 6 in art. 9a of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 of the same Law on Local Taxes and Fees are determined all fees which a municipality is obliged to determine and collect under para. 1 of art. 9a with the law. To make it clear to you, I will read the text verbatim so that you can think about it: The municipal council with a decision can determine which local fees established by law are not collected by the order of para. 1 of that same article. 9a and collected by concessionaires. And now, here it is becoming very interesting............ dear colleagues, as I said in art................................................................... 6 are determined which are the fees by law. First of all, it's a waste charge. But things aren't that simple and it's not just outsourcing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u30	It was sarcastic.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u31	Yeah, I get it, but I'm developing it to make it clear to the rest of my colleagues. Imagine that your community, your municipal council... It is not even foreseen by which majority this decision should be adopted. Unlike art. 34, where it is thoughtfully said with two thirds of the votes of the municipal council. Here, by chance, even this has been missed. And the municipal council grants to concession the collection of municipal waste. At the same time, a second concession is already received here and the collection of fees. And then there's the subtle moment: in order to collect the fees, this fee holder has to gain full access to the database "Population." Each one of us here and another seven million. 200,000. Bulgarian citizens. In other words, he receives free access to all the information of every Bulgarian citizen. What are we talking about here? Where are the honourable importers to whom I asked this question to the Commission and received no reasonable answer? Who can afford to allow this thing? How and in what way?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u32	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u33	I want an extension if it's expired. [[Radio.]] There's no way we're gonna let that happen. I will not say that such fees are also linked to another activity in collecting the fees for the preservation of burial sites. I don't think I need to tell you what kind of mafia we're talking about in this direction. In other words, this bill has irreparable vices, does not meet the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts, which is why the Patriotic Front cannot support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u34	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? The word for speech is Mr. Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'm glad you're here. BGN, which you paid to the law firm "Buzeva and Partners" to write you this bill. It's VAT-free money. A sum that could be enough for a few life-saving operations, for example. You should ask for this money, because what you have been written by Buzeva and Partners is not only a premature child, but is harmful to Bulgaria. I'm not gonna tell you again, there's been a very good display of vices here, the mistakes involved in this project. I'm just going to say, essentially, I just heard the word "modern law" that it's an oxymoron, an absolutely impossible combination, as "modernity" and "concession" are fighting. The concession is an instrument of colonial conquest of the world mainly by countries, such as the one that became known recently with Brexit. The concession is robbing, exploiting the raw materials and wealth of one country from another during the so-called mastery of the uncivilized world. Bulgaria has belonged to the civilized world for thousands of years, and therefore, from this tribune, I and my colleagues have been pleading for the termination of the already existing concessions for 11 years. There are such things, and they are terrible. They have done billions of damage to our country. A remark was made here that it was not now about concessions and underground riches. No, we're gonna talk about that, too, because there's no way we're gonna get past them. It will also be about the underground wealth that has been given since 1999, under the government of Kostov, in a criminal way of a company, it is a criminal company, but as the people have said, it is not crazy who eats the zelnik. This company, leading Australian, has been exploiting Bulgarian gold and precious metals, not only gold, for more than 10 years. The profits exported from Bulgaria are estimated at nearly 10 billion. lv. What was left as a concession fee are crumbs because with Mr. Kostov the concession fee of this company was 1.5%, and with His Majesty's great reign King Saxe-Coburg's fee fell to 0.75%, a hundred percent! So the gold of Bulgaria, copper, silver, precious metals and strategic raw materials are exported, as I said, more than 10 years of concession. The water in Sofia has also been given for 16 years, first to an English company and now to a French company. Do you know how much the municipality gets out of this concession? Zero leva! Twenty-five million leva have declared a net profit, not revenue! The revenue of the French firm for 2012 and 2013 is 105 million, in just one year! From this money Sofia Municipality gets nothing! This is called the exploitation of natural raw materials. It is about water. This same firm, by the way, has been expelled from some countries. The one I'm talking about, the gold mine, they kicked her out of Kyrgyzstan, imagine! There were strikes, tens of thousands of people were making demonstrations, and finally the government ended the concession with the Dundee Precious Metals, let me tell her the name, and they kicked her out. In Bulgaria, however, everything is allowed. And now the government stands before us with a bill written by a law firm lobbying and offers us what is left in Bulgaria to be distributed in the form of concessions. What does the government propose to give away? Here is a clamp to the esteemed Yanaki Stoilov, who just expressed a fair outrage about the plundering of natural riches. I will just remind you, Mr. Stoilov, that in 2014 we submitted a proposal to terminate the concessions for gold and to terminate the concession contract with the "Dundee Precious Metals." Your minister then objected to us, and I quote: I do not support the proposal made to end the concession contracts in which gold and silver are mined on the territory of the country. So it's nice to talk strong words here, but they have to defend themselves with action. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] In 2015, we proposed that it should be terminated again. Notice, one is the government of Oresharski, then the government Borisov 2. In 2015, last year, exactly one year ago in this tribune, our proposal to terminate the concession for gold, silver and copper sounded again. It was rejected by this Chamber, by this Chamber of Parliament. There better be some smartening of those on whom the text on which we are going to vote in a moment. I would like to say that the MPs of the ruling party are now on their way to improving this Law and to do something that they will not only be ashamed of, but will be held accountable. To tell you the truth, purely political I would even like it to be accepted now so that we have something to cancel tomorrow when power is another and really is power in the name of the people of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u36	Tomorrow's Saturday!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u37	Either way, it is not right, it is not good at attack, of course, it is against this bill and we will vote against it. I call on the ruling coalition MPs to reject it and thus to teach the government a lesson because the government is in subjection to the National Assembly. It should take a lesson and no longer entrust such lobbying companies with the hope that after that concessions will be given instead of dry steam for the elections. This is obviously the idea: when the elections come, you get a concession instead of money, because they decrease a bit in Bulgaria. Here's a concession for you! I'm telling you, this is a very, very dangerous plane you're going on. What does the government, or, in particular, Mr. Donchev and his colleague Moskovski, propose to our attention that he should now enter the sphere of responsibility? Public services related to transmission and distribution of gas and heat are fixed. The transmission network remains to be distributed, and for ever and ever, concession forever. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] The Bulgartransgaz is not distributed yet. Public services suppressive, trolleybus, well, that's clear. Services related to social protection. Perhaps the distribution of pensions will be granted on concession. Services provided by trade union and political organisations, youth associations and other membership organisations. That's a very interesting offer. Mr. Donchev, I suppose you will enlighten us: are you starting to give parties a concession? I don't know. Political organizations. Religious services? I imagine the day when someone will come and say: "I have a concession to baptize you, marry and sing, I have concessiond these services. Now, please come here as a priest in our village there is no. I've got this thing on retainer. Like Tsonko Chekov or Cheko Tsonkov. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Public government services in general! In short, there is no service, no infrastructure, no activity, part of our life that is not given on concession. Here the question is already asked: then where does the state go, what is left of the state and the municipalities? Nothing, apparently. Obviously this is a very serious phase towards the eradication of Bulgaria as a country and as municipalities that have their independence to decide something after all. Not to mention that everything that's listed here is national security, at least that's how I know it's run. If this is given to concessions without it being clear who is taking them, as things will be determined by the respective mayor or minister, we can imagine: the migrants who come here can become concessionaires, some of them will draw up documents, start companies and become concessionaires on bridges. Under the bridges, I have put a trotile, as was sung in a parody song. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude my brief but meaningful statement with a call not to support the Bill, as you will thus do good to your loved ones, to the people, to the nation and will remain in history as a parliament that has rejected a bad law for Bulgaria. It is not bad to explain this to the media, because, as has been noted, they have no interest in the Bill, and in fact something is currently being adopted that can liquidate our country as a single country, as long as there remains a single state. Thank you for your attention. I'm counting on your sanity. Mr. Donchev, and to you, too.. withdraw the bill and get back that 85 thousand. lv. by Buzeva and Partners. That would be a good deed. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u38	Replices to Mr. Siderov? I won't. Procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u39	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am proposing and asking for a procedure to be allowed to extend the plenary part of this sitting until the debates on this item have been concluded, together with the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u40	A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm inviting the MPs to the House! I put to the vote the procedural proposal for an extension of the legislative part of today's plenary session until the end of the debate and the vote on the current bill, after which the parliamentary control time will be respected, it cannot be less than three hours on Friday. We're voting, guys! Vote 127 MPs: 77 against 37, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. The word for speech is Mr. Rumen Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u41	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Our colleagues have already raised the question about the law firm, but I will examine this issue briefly from another point of view. I'm asking for an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u42	The time of all parliamentary groups is extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u43	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in which European State does the government grant a concession for the development of laws? Can you give examples of Germany, France, Italy or another country? It is an extremely dangerous precedent to assign the Law on concessions, where billions of levs are involved, to a law firm that works with leading concessionaires. What happens to this law firm that makes a law of the Bulgarian government and then starts serving these concessionaires? And whose interests will he defend? In the Budget Committee, I strongly objected, we had to break the procedure because the insolence continued with the law firm, colleagues, to represent the project of the Bulgarian government. A miracle never seen within the borders of the European Union! So use any services you want, but I ask you the question: what does this mean that these people who work in the legal departments of the Council of Ministers Do you know that there is an Institute of Law at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences with four sections, including the problems of Commercial Law? Have you heard of this thing? Did you know that there is a Law Faculty of Sofia University and Law Faculty of the University of National and World Economy? Isn't it right for the Bulgarian state to finance these institutions, which employ highly qualified experts, some of whom also participate in this law firm? Where is the interest of the Bulgarian state? The first question that you have given the concession the development of the Law on concessions is scandalous. It should not be a practice of the Bulgarian government, to become a summary in the European Union that the government cannot make a draft law. One. Secondly, Madam President, this Law should not be allowed in this House. Why? Well, because there's no impact analysis. But, Mr. Donchev, what is going on in the Republic of Bulgaria? You're filing a concession law without any numbers! The Constitution, the Law and the regulations oblige you to have estimates under this Law. This is about billions of levs that will go and should be divided between the concessionaire and the Bulgarian government. You don't have that kind of analysis at all. In addition, it was said that there is no definition of a concession. There is no definition of the following: the draft law provides for additional payment by the State or the municipality, and I quote: "To reach a socially acceptable price for the services provided by the company. The colleague has already asked the question what is a socially acceptable price? Who's gonna determine it? The mayor or minister will have talks with the concessionaire about who is socially acceptable in terms of who for the public. And where's your methodology? Where is your legal status, who will determine this socially acceptable price? Other controversial texts. A competitive dialogue and a competitive procedure, by the way, with negotiation, are not a disadvantage in itself, but given the above-mentioned weaknesses of the Draft Law in control, change of responsibility, time limits, ownership regimes, reference to certain and socially tolerated prices and selective interpretation of the European Directive, the operational freedom which they provide can be easily used to facilitate the choice of ministers and mayors of their exporters. In other words, corruption opportunities are being created. Dear colleagues, you do not have an analysis of the impact on the Bulgarian economy. You gave the concession to the Law on concessions, that is, there is a cruel conflict of interests and opportunities for corruption. Furthermore, I do not know if you have not been impressed by the fact that the Union of Economists, which are members of hundreds of Bulgarian economists, doctors, docs, professors, are against a fellow Member. The Union of Economists in the Republic of Bulgaria opposes! It is also against the Economic Commission of the Bulgarian Parliament. I do not know if you noticed. I am surprised that this Law has been given to a leading committee Legal. We're talking billions of levs here! Excuse me! I repeat the economic committee, if necessary, to our Parliament, with your majority has not supported the Law. The Union of Economists and against, the Economic Commission of the Bulgarian Parliament opposes. What more do we have to talk about? I do not like to rely on external evaluators, but see that the American Chamber in Sofia is against it. She wrote you five destructive pages about this Law. In conclusion: you do not meet the requirements of this Law, there are no estimates of impact, it is granted to concession, so be so good and withdraw the Law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u44	Any lines to Mr. Gechev? Mr. Kirilov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u45	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Professor Gechev! I will continue a line in my speeches, which concerns the protection of professionals and experts, whenever the norm of attack and negative speech is exceeded. Firstly, I will start with this.. the requirement for impact assessments under the new Rules of the Law on Legislative Acts has not yet entered into force. There we have a half-year period to bring this norm into effect. However, I believe that this particular bill contains sufficient analytical material with regard to its application. Please also note that the bill in question is designed to meet our requirements on one plus two more directives, that is, we are here in the situation where we apply the requirement within the time limit and here we are outside the deadline, in the interest of the truth, to apply the specific directives. It is strange that your reaction when it comes to implementing European directives. I will return to the Law on Legislative Acts to say the following: of these new rules that we have adopted, Mr. Gechev, for the first time in the Portal for Public Discussions of the Law there is a requirement to point out the organisation or entity involved in the drafting of any regulatory act plus the remuneration that he has received. Notice for the first time! It is strange why, in all the debates so far, in this and in the last parliament, for the first time I began to hear a name. What about the other regulations? What about the previous government's regulations? What about the fees paid under the regulations on the previous government's draft regulations? I'm breaking the line...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u46	Due to the expiration of the specified time. [[Radio.]] Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u47	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Kirilov! I have not criticised or attacked texts of the European directive anywhere. Never, because, as a citizen and a member of parliament, it is clear to me that directives must be implemented. There's no such thing. The point is that the work developed around the European directives is worrying. I am also not opposed to the use of consulting services by highly qualified colleagues. I have said nothing about the qualification of owners and those who are in the Bar Association, but I say out loud: it is not normal for a whole law, and it is not normal for concessions to be developed in full by a law firm because there is a conflict of interest and because we pay dozens of lawmakers who should be highly qualified. If the lawmen, and they're not, are ladybugs, and in the future we'll be giving hundreds of thousands of levs to hire law firms, well, then let's fire them! Let's cut back on this staff who can't write a law. The fact that he's going to consult the law is something completely different. And in the end, I forgot to say something important. I recall: Bulgaria's Union of Economists opposes, the Economic Commission opposes, but the Energy Commission with your chairman, honourable Members, is against! I do not know who will gather the courage to vote such a law after key: The Union of Bulgarian Economists, key committees in parliament are strongly against! So let's be reasonable and protect our country's interests, because, colleagues, we have given concession to our underground wealth and it is connected. And we're losing billions. And the concession fees are in times less than those of African countries. And every government is struggling to solve a number of problems and social, given that billions of levs come out of our country precisely because of this attitude and pressing the buttons here in this room, from which our people, our friends, our families lose billions of levs. So do not support this Draft Law. It's okay. It'll work. We'll discuss it and pass a law that is in everyone's best interest. There's nothing political here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u48	The word wants Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will later try to answer all the questions raised, to give clarity where it is needed. And from the comments I hear, there is obviously not only a need for clarity, but a need for visual examples of how concession regimes work. I'd like to make a purely technical clarification. Regarding the comments that the Law was developed not by the experts in the state administration. We have examples of laws written not by the experts of the state administration in Bulgaria. We have examples of proposals for laws or amendments to laws that have even been written by other countries. That wasn't a long time ago. Was it in the gas sector? You can explain it to me in greater detail, as far as I am not involved in this procedure, and you have! It's bad practice. However, it is a good practice to add highly qualified external experts to the experts of the administration, including lecturers at Sofia University. That's good practice. It is a bad practice when Bulgarian laws are written by foreign countries! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u50	The word for speech is Mr. Bojinov. [[Noise and lines.]] I gave you the floor. You've been recorded for speaking. [[Replys on the left.]] There are no other records, only you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u51	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In my remaining two and a half minutes, it's hard to expose what... [[Lowered noise, lines on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u52	Colleagues, to the left, please respect your colleague! I hear your conversations, I don't hear the speaker from the stands. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u53	No, Volen Siderov is dealing with your boss. Don't give me references! [[Radio, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u54	So don't quote by name, because I'll list half of your group, Mr. Bojinov!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u55	Well, what can I do?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u56	To continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u57	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! The assignment you have made to the people who wrote the Law is closely designed, so the Law does not correspond to its subject. You have commissioned an analysis as the Council of Ministers to answer two questions: why is there no concession in the construction of highways using resources to be restored from operation of sites, and why does the Public-Private Partnership Act not work? The analysis thus provided was preliminary and the answer.. there is no application of the Public Private Partnership Act because the regime of choice of partner is restrictive. And there is no construction of highways on concession because this is not regulated by law. And because the directive you are looking for to get it into the Bulgarian legislation requires regulation of this subject, you are the whole wide range regulated in art. 18 of the Constitution introducing the concession institute, you have put it into how to transpose this directive on the construction of highways of concession, as a response to all broad problems. This is your methodological wrong approach to this broad problem, and that is why the result of this effort is causing these objections today in this House. [[Noise and lines.]] In the remaining seconds, I would like to say that the results of the concession activities in Bulgaria are negative, because we have always, as now, witnessed an disadvantaged partnership - on the one hand - have been worked in decades and centuries of working mechanisms of private, group, corporate and foreign interests. They are our partner of our country in the realization of concessions. On the other hand, in the face of government and state institutions, state officials have people who have not met the constitutional requirement in the implementation of concessions to defend the interests of citizens and Bulgarian society, so the laws and practices so far are always directed to these private group and corporate, foreign interests of Bulgaria, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u58	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u59	Therefore, the Law and what will follow will not be in the interest of the Bulgarian people, so you should withdraw it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u60	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. You want the word? Here you go, Mr. Donchev. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB and GERB.]] Please, no yelling! [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u61	Madam President, I have made a commitment to make some clarification, and since I never run away from a debate, thank you for the opportunity to do so immediately. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The number of state and municipal concessions currently in force is 1233, with revenue of 104 million. 334 thousand. BGN, which is small. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB and GERB.]] I appreciate the real opportunities of the Bulgarian economy and the existing...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u62	Mr. Donchev, excuse me for a moment. Colleagues, we're not gonna keep getting yelled at like this. Or control your emotions and observe... And to the right side of the hall. It's not an environment where you can normally work. Continue, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u63	You can call me a sucker, but I can't understand why the more modern and European legislation is being proposed in this room, the more acute reactions?! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] This Law not only transposes the applicable European legislation, not only opens new opportunities in the field of public-private partnership, but it is important because it can provide an economically profitable use of state assets, lead to better quality services at a lower price, as well as lead to new investments specifically in public infrastructure, which the state does not have resources and the ability to build. When we comment with you on the need for new legislation in the area of concessions, let us not comment only on the transposition of the applicable European legislation and the need to codify existing texts, but to answer the question: have all the opportunities for public-private partnership been exhausted and, for example, on the sub-question: how many bridge facilities, how many tunnels, how many buildings we have built as a result of construction concessions? The answer is zero. How good and at a fair price do public services have as a concession as a result of a concession for a service? A little! Among the reasons for this, among other things, is the imperfect legislation that has been functioning so far. I claim that this text is to the maximum extent close to the needs of the institutions that manage public resources, and this is evident from their opinions. Moreover, it is as close to market logic as possible. I've heard a lot of reproaches. That's expected. I have overheard many false statements and, to some extent, inadequate claims, this is also expected. By the way, a reason for such claims does not need to be a text, could be anything else. I will use the short time I have to give some clarification on the issues raised.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u64	And it's getting shorter and shorter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u65	First, on the occasion of the comment that the Law opened opportunities for how it was a plunder of the wealth of the state. Colleagues, if you have paid attention, even if you have compared it to the old Law, the new Law does not give new opportunities to grant concession to something that could have previously been given under the old Law. There's no full range expansion. There were a number of comments related to relations between the public and private partners. I do not need to read the texts in the Law, but especially to Mr. Stoilov I want to pay attention. Thank him for reading the texts carefully, unlike some of the other commentators. The public partner shall not be tasked with managing operationally. It has the opportunity to manage the operating asset without joining an association with a private investor. This is not the main function and is not the main objective. There were concerns about the possibility of a beneficiary collecting public resources, for example, to collect a fee, Mr. Bajraktarov, in principle a reasonable concern. I just need to make two specifics. And right now, the mobile operator you're using has access to certain of your personal data. And right now! This is not a problem as long as the requirements of the applicable legislation are complied with specifically in the Personal Data Protection Act. That's settled by another law. And when we are talking about the possibility for the concessionaire to collect public resources, I am giving you a specific example: is it not more convenient if the collection of household waste is concessionated? Why do it by administration, it cuts costs? Another argument, because we are yet to be made, including following the Law, to introduce the principle of being paid, that is to say, the amount of waste you produce, the amount of waste you throw away, the amount of money you pay, and this is where new opportunities are opened. There were a lot of concerns about the deadlines. I will not waste Parliament's time reading the productions of art. 34 where there are sufficient booking mechanisms that the term will not be abused. But I will draw your attention to a text specifically in para. 6 where it is written that the duration of the concession is always a separate award criterion. It is always a award criterion, which means that it is part of the competitive fight between all candidates, and will win including the one offering the shortest time. When frivolous abuse of the deadline is done, to note, honourable Members, that it is primarily about the construction concessions, and I am giving you a simple and clear example. Do we need a bridge at Silistra over the Danube? We definitely need it. Do we have the resources to build it, as long as its price, for example, amounts to not less than 200 or 300 million? Not at the moment! Is this possible to be done by a private investor as a concession for construction? Yeah, it's possible that we're organizing a procedure, writing some initial parameters, and three or four candidates appear. Of course, the concessionaire has the right, once he has built the facility on its own account, that is, he has invested the 250 million or 300 million, built it, to charge the passage fee. We have three offers, as we have set the maximum ceiling of the fee it is for example five or ten leva. In the first bid, the candidate proposes to build the facility, collect the fee and claims to recover its costs in 55 years; the second candidate claims it will happen in 65 years; the third claims it will happen in 70 years. We choose the one who has proposed the shortest time.. that is logic. I just remind you that in the Public Procurement Act, we have no limit on how much a mile of highway can cost, or how much a kilometer of road could cost. And so far we haven't come to a mile of highway costing a billion, for the simple reason that there is always a competitive clash including prices. It's the same in terms of time. Dear colleagues, do not speculate! There is no way to sell a state asset through a concession. In particular, lawyers, and everyone else, should know that the State does not separate from the property under concession. She gives someone else the right to use it, she doesn't split up with the property. My fellow Members, I call on you to support this text because it is good, modern, opens up new opportunities. There may be technical details to be cleared, but this can happen safely in the procedure between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u66	Colleagues, the debate has been closed. We have heard the answers to the questions raised in the speeches of the MPs from the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Donchev. I put to the first vote the Law on concessions, No 602-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2016. They voted 140 MPs: 75, against 38, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. That concludes the Legislative part of today's plenary session. PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period 1 July 2016 "July 7th" 2016: A question has been received from MP Willi Ilkov to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, on the progress of the gas relations of the Republic of Bulgaria with Greece, Turkey, Romania and Serbia. The reply should be made in writing by 19 July 2016. Asked by the National Representative Ivan Stankov to Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food, on the government's policy to increase the number of animals in Bulgaria, providing sufficient products of animal origin to meet the needs of the internal market and exports. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 15 July 2016. There has been a question from the MP Slavi Binev to Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior, on a policy on strengthening the fight against abuse of funds and funds of the European Union. The reply should be made in writing by 20 July 2016. A question came from Christian Vigenin to Daniel Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the European Union's Global Strategy for Foreign and Security Policy. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 15 July 2016. Written answers for service. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] Colleagues, there is a plenary session that is broadcast directly on National Television and National Radio. The rightful MPs are more than the normal way in which we should be in a sitting! Written answers from: - Rumyana Bachvarova to three questions from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Meglena Kuneva on a question from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov and Mariana Todorova; - Meglena Kuneva on a question from Mariana Todorova; - Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - Nikolina Angelkova on a question from Nastimir Ananiev; - Lilyana Palova on a question from Nastimir Ananiev; - Petar Moskov to a question from Nastimir Ananiev; - Lilyana Pavlova on a question from Slavi Binev; - Lilyana Pavlova on a question from Galya Georgieva and Petar Bekov; - Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov; - Lilyana Pavlova's question of Claudia Grigorova; - Lilyana Pavlova of Durhan Mustafa; - Desislava Taneva to a question from Slavi Binev two questions; - Desislava Taneva on a question from Atanas Stoyanov; - Desislava Taneva on a question from Chavdar Peychev; - Desislava Taneva on a question from Metodi Andreev; - Zornitsa Rusinova to a question from Metodi Andreyev; - Zornitsa Rusinova to a question from Durhan Mustafa; - Zornitsa Rusinova to a question from Georgi Gokov; - Zornitsa Rusinova to a question from Ivan Ibrishimov; - Daniel Mitov on a question from Georgi Kuchukov and Ivan Stankov; - Krasen Kralev on a question from Peter Slavov. Declaration on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u67	Madam President, honourable Members! The declaration on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group, which I will read to you, was willing to be discussed in the committees on which it was distributed and to be the basis for the National Assembly Declaration. Unfortunately, the Foreign Policy Committee did not include the Declaration on its agenda and the Defence Committee refused to examine it twice. That's why I'd like to introduce you to her content here in the Chamber. The delegation of power of the ABB Parliamentary Group for non-participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in new military formations and military activities in Southeast Europe and the Black Sea region The parliamentary group of ABB and the Political Party ABB, Stressing their support for the country's full participation in international efforts to strengthen peace and build the collective security system in Europe; By confirming the determination to bear the responsibilities and enjoy the rights arising from Bulgaria's membership in the European Union and NATO, By guided by the need for strict follow-up of national interests within the framework of the main foreign policy priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria; Stressing their commitment to active government and parliament policy in Southeast Europe and the Black Sea region in order to strengthen security and stability to ensure a favourable environment for business and investment, good neighbourly relations and contacts at all levels; With the desire to maintain active relations with the countries of the region on an equal and mutually beneficial basis, focusing on the development of trade and economic relations and especially on energy security relations, DECLARES: The ABC political party will continue to contribute to developing and deepening cooperation between countries in order to find a common approach and implement effective joint actions to strengthen security on a regional and European scale. The ABC political party confirms its support for all actions generating stability in Southeast Europe and the Black Sea region and contributing to finding a common approach in the area of security and defence along the path of dialogue and negotiations. The ABB political party supports all efforts to normalise and stabilise the situation in the Black Sea area and is ready and able to actively participate in the formation and implementation of common positions and policies in the field of security and defence, and in particular its regional dimension as an integral part of our allied rights and obligations within the European Union and NATO. A political party ABB is against all forms of military opposition in the region, including through the construction of new military infrastructure and military formations and the deployment of weapons and armed forces and does not accept its territory being used for such purposes. Political Party ABB considers the joint use of Bulgarian military facilities and its participation in joint military activities only as a means to increase the country's defence capabilities and increase the interoperability of the Bulgarian armed forces with the armed forces of our allies. It should be carried out on the basis of respect for the interests, sovereignty and laws of the Republic of Bulgaria and the objectives and principles of the UN Charter and should not be directed against other countries. The ABB political party will assess its support for any initiative for military regional co-operation in the Black Sea and Black Sea basin, as well as in Southeast Europe as a whole, taking into account the need to prevent tensions and race in arming and preserving stability and good neighbourly relations with the countries of the region. Leaded by the above, the Political Party ABC does not support the initiative to create a common Black Sea Fleet and insists that the President and the Government adhere to the above positions at the NATO summit in Warsaw on 8 and 9 July 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. Honourable Members, we are continuing with parliamentary control. The first questions will be answered by Mr. Tomislav Donchev "Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy." He will be asked by the National Representative Ivan Slavov Ivanov about the process of privatisation and post-privatization control. Mr. Ivanov, please state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Recently, the National Assembly adopted a Report on the state of the privatisation process and post-privatization control submitted by the Supervisory Board of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency. Despite the large majority in the adoption of the report, it is an undeniable fact that it contains disturbing data on the results and effectiveness in the work of the privatization public authorities. The report shows that 2014 is the weakest for the last 6 years, and even more disturbing fact is that the reasons for the negative balance are extremely subjective, and that means that these reasons have been preventable. There is no way to explain that structural changes to understand almost 50% reduction in staff at the Agency are being undertaken because there are not enough accommodation rooms in the newly provided habitat of the Agency staff. The caretaker government, in practice, stops all procedures, although its powers in the privatisation sector are the same as the government elected by parliament. It is also understood from the report that the number of sites on which the Agency has worked is relatively large, but the procedures completed by transaction are too few, which requires the conclusion of an amazingly low efficiency of the state privatisation body. Revenues from the Agency's activities in the first accounting year significantly give way to the costs of its maintenance for nearly three million revenues, almost four million are the costs for it. The second accounting year the balance is slightly more favourable but again not encouraging for the Agency's national contribution. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you should be embarrassed by such an assessment of an executive state body that spends and does not create national income. I realize that the privatisation and post-privatization process, along with the processes for the restoration of ownership, were and are still the basis for restructuring the Bulgarian economy in the market conditions and because of the subjective circumstances that continue to reduce our industrial production, our national income and its contribution, I ask you to answer me: what measures as Deputy Prime Minister with portfolio economic policy will you take to be the post-privatization control factor for the growth of the share of national industrial power in our country's economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Time just split it up, and thanks for that. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, you have the floor to answer within five minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u71	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I could not understand the nuance of the question whether I should be responsible for the available rooms at the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control, the role of privatisation control or its effect on the development of the economy. Since I insist on the thesis that there should be more conceptual and meaningful talks in Parliament, I will try to focus on the third nuance of the role of post-privatization control in terms of the state of the economy. However, by commenting on lower revenues, let me remind you that privatisation is rather over. Its strongest phases were in previous years. The fact is that 66% of all fixed state assets are currently privatized. Of these, industrial ones are privatized to almost 100%, i.e. there are no remaining state industrial production assets, except those falling, of course, on the ban list. Such results could not be surprising. But essentially, because I do not deny the subject is important, although the main focus of post-privatization control is respect for the public interest. If someone has made a commitment under the privatisation contract, they must fulfil it. More complicated is the question of what is the role and what is the effect on the state of the economy. I remind you that in privatisation sales contracts other than the payment of the purchase price, the following obligations are usually agreed mainly: for making investments, for maintaining employment, for not ordering acquired shares and shares or for non-dissolving assets, for maintaining the main subject of activity and relating to the environment. Some of these obligations as factors in industrial production have an impact on productivity, e.g. investments, workforce qualifications, innovation. On the other hand, some of the requirements of privatisation contracts could have a deterrent effect on the productivity of undertakings, such as labour costs, including the restriction on non-alignment with fixed tangible assets. Increasing investment, as well as investing in fixed assets, is the main driver of economic growth. By attracting investment, increasing the value and quality of the purchased property improves productivity in the Bulgarian industry. In this regard, the privatisation contracts concluded since the beginning of the privatisation process have agreed to conduct investments of a total of more than 7 billion. lv. Let me point out that my personal opinion is that they could have been much more. Increasing productivity depends both on human capital and on the quality of the workforce and on its qualifications. In this regard, there are obligations for maintaining employment and a number of social obligations in privatization and post-privatization control, and the Agency for Privatization and Post-privatization control over the so-called social obligations. The innovation of undertakings in the post-privatization phase cannot be controlled in most cases, because it is very difficult to put a commitment within the privatisation contract to an undertaking how innovative it is and how it is measured. However, post-privatization control represents the state's ambition to maintain resource control in an undertaking by strictly monitoring the implementation of the obligations laid down in the privatisation contracts and in the event of non-compliance, the application of the agreed terms of intervention. In this regard, since the entry into force of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control in 2002 at present, amounts of nearly half a billion BGN have been received as a result of post-privatization controls. In view of the information presented, we can draw out the following: post-privatization control actions have rather a positive impact. The productivity of the industry is a multi-component parameter, reflecting specifically the parameters of labor, technique, process organisation. The post-privatization process cannot only be aimed at ensuring growth and productivity in the industry. Let me repeat my thesis from the beginning that the main function of post-privatization control is to ensure compliance with contracts, protection of public interest. It could hardly act as an instrument to promote economic growth.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Ivanov, you can ask up to two supplementary questions within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. I have approached you because of the trust I have in you as a practical and responsible factor in the executive power. I have no doubt in the role of the subjective factor, and therefore I refer to what has not been done by the executives for the reporting period. My aim was to focus your attention on the ability to analyze, evaluate and sanction clearly ineffective bodies that the National Assembly and the government are creating. Appreciate these circumstances, of course, I am a little worried about your assessment that the privatisation process has ended because the report we have analysed points out facts that we understand that even managers of state-owned companies are refusing to give the necessary documents in order to carry out the judicial procedure. Even this fact is proof that the trial has not ended, on the contrary. I would recommend that you pay really detailed attention to the responsibilities that the Privatisation and Post-Privatization Control Agency and the Supervisory Board to it underestimate and do not understand enough responsible. Next, I would allow myself to ask whether you are addressing opportunities in the territorial structures of the state that would give even more effective prerequisites for the implementation of a privatisation process and post-privatization control? Next, as the report ends with information on the transfer of responsibilities by the responsibilities of the Agency of Privatization to the Ministry of Finance, do we not find greater potential in the Ministry of Finance for the collection of revenue due to the State than structures that prove that they do not effectively realise their powers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Donchev, you have in 3 minutes to answer the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u75	Dear Mr. Ivanov, for a reason in the first part of the answer I said that the topic is essential. Perhaps not the parliamentary control procedure is the format in which to hold the necessary debate, because it has several angles: the first is historical, or whether the privatisation in Bulgaria took place in the best way. The answer is, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Not only as value, as money that the state has obtained to separate from its assets, especially industrial ones, but from the point of view of finding the best owner. I suppose here with you we will have a consensus that this certainly did not happen in the best way and vital assets, businesses that could find their good owner, to work, to attack international markets, as they have done before, have been destroyed. Unfortunately, it's not something we can solve with a magic wand and we can't reverse time. I commented that privatisation is rather ending in its core part, especially with regard to industrial effects. Of course, there are still procedures that are unparalleled as the value of what has taken place at the moment......................what has been privatized............................................................. There are two more topics here. Yes, there are also remaining state-owned companies and government shares in a number of companies that should be privatized, especially by looking at their current results. These are spheres and sectors where state management may not be doing it in the best way. Similar is the situation with most of the so-called additional shares. It is only right that the privatisation process should be brought to an end. Yeah, you're right, there's resistance. There is resistance, in a number of cases, the principal of one company or another has systemic resistance, giving all sorts of arguments why the company in question cannot and should not be privatised, seeing no reason for the state to engage in strange sectors such as hospitality or real estate. At the same time, there are assets on which there is a debate on the topic of Privatization, on which my personal position and not only personal position, this is the government's position, is that there privatisation cannot be commented, including in the gas infrastructure. Inasmuch as there were proposals in the negotiations with the European Commission, the key companies in the gas sector, in particular "Bulgartransgaz", one of the measures to ensure the liberalisation of the gas market, is to move towards privatisation. The government's answer was: "No! " The working group meeting in Brussels this week, the Bulgarian representatives received a single briefing that privatisation is not an option. This is also part of the conversation that, for example, I would love to have at the Economic Commission, commenting on all these topics and sub-topics. Trying to answer one of your specific questions, do I see the potential for involving territorial structures in the country? Yes, because unlike the central government, being on the spot, having more information, conscious of the benefits that the privatisation of an asset can bring, is mostly in terms of improving the economic situation, they would act much more involved than the institutions of the central government operate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u76	And thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Would you like to take an attitude? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, this is the final procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the serious approach I have encountered in your understanding of the problem. My task was to turn your attention to it and bring the feeling that we will have a development that could affect both legislative changes and operational action as a leader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Donchev, the parliamentary policy control procedure you are managing for today is over. Have a good day! Now, honourable Members, we are moving on to questions addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science Mrs. Meglena Kuneva. First question will be asked by the people representative Christian Vigenin about the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union after the referendum in Britain. A question often discussed in the last few days. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, UK, which is part of the so-called "Troika of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union', together with Estonia and Bulgaria, held a referendum, resulting in the fact that Britain will leave the European Union. Of course, we're opening a clamp to say that Article hasn't been activated yet. 50 of the Lisbon Treaty, the formal procedure has not started, but anyway the probability of this happening is much greater than not to happen at least those are the indications that come from Britain. This is certainly putting the European Union at risk as a whole, specifically Bulgaria, a number of policies, but also in this case the Presidency of Bulgaria, which should take place in the second half of 2018. This risk, of course, could have been foreseen at an earlier stage, as at the moment that this referendum was announced, it could also be expected that the outcome we have to date. I myself have repeatedly put this issue before the referendum. Unfortunately, it seems to me that in none of the official decisions and documents that were proposed and adopted in this period, this risk has not been claimed for Britain's possible exit from the European Union, and therefore the highly illogical possible step, although Britain has not yet come out in 2017, to lead a presidency that should address issues of its departure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u80	Your question, dear Mr. Vigenin? Time has come.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u81	I'll get to the point. I have two minutes, Mr. Chairman, and you're interrupting me...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u82	You have exactly two seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u83	Yeah, after you interrupted me and I couldn't get to the point. Please do not interrupt the Members of the National Assembly until they have put the matter and within the time provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u84	Please observe the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u85	Please don't interrupt me and obey your authority as well. I would like to ask, Deputy Prime Minister, what are the possible decisions before the European Union in this situation and what proposals does Bulgaria intend to make to the partners in this regard so that the Bulgarian Presidency is not threatened by technical and political failure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u87	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Vigenin, there is still no solution that will certainly change the order of the Presidency. Of course, after the referendum in Britain, however, the situation has changed radically. The European Union has never experienced, and the Lisbon Treaty is still a relatively new treaty, has never experienced such turmoil and has not been put into a situation that it is now in. So the talks, as you know, go through the Council's Legal Service and through the proposals and discussions with the other two institutions, which continue to be held at the moment. I was at the General Affairs Council right after the referendum. The referendum was on the 23rd, our Council was on the 24th, and in the speech that I made, which contained an assessment of the political situation, in general for the development of the Union, one of the things with insistence for more clarity, was the question of the trio and the Bulgarian Presidency as part of it. By the way, there are two countries in this trio - Estonia and Bulgaria, which will be presidents for the first time. If there is something good in this situation, it is that Estonia, which is also for the first time, is ahead of us and, as we know, the last six months are always the most intense for the preparation of a Presidency. That is, we have a shared concern and a shared desire to clarify this situation. I immediately consulted with the General Secretariat of the Council, as well as my colleagues the Permanent Representative there, our Ambassador, and at the political level of my cabinet. Here is what is expected: By the end of July, a draft amending Decision will be tabled for the current decision on the order in which the rotating presidencies of the Council of the European Union will be implemented by 2020. This is Council Decision 2007/5/EC, as of 1 January 2007. That's what we're gonna change. The proposal will be submitted by the Slovak Presidency and should be adopted by qualified majority. For the sake of little time, I would like to say that, according to the Lisbon Treaty, it must be adopted unanimously, but if it passes through COREPER It is, of course, more favourable for us to keep our Presidency in the current time frame. There were also such ideas that the previous presidencies could be extended, but in all likelihood we will have to adapt to the new situation. We will come up with a position on the changes in the period of the rotating Presidency. The priorities are clear and political. However, I believe that in the European Union Strategy Programme for the next five years, as well as the European Commission's Programme, I have shared with you what the priorities are, here we will also have much stronger political topics that are related to the future of the Union. By the end of July, we will be able to say exactly how the European Union will decide on a repeat, by a qualified majority, the order of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Vigenin, would you like a line? Here you go. In two minutes, it's your time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, I cannot say that I am satisfied with your response, although I am, of course, aware of the ambiguities and uncertainty that the European Union currently has, including on this issue. It seems to me that we can't just sit back and wait for someone else to decide for us how we imagine this situation. What do I mean? After all, it is important for me to do our own analysis of whether we will ever be able to prepare ourselves adequately for six months earlier because, if we believe your official statements, the work that has been done so far, definitely three months ago, you said that there was a delay in preparation, a month later the new structure or the so-called headquarters was made. As if a little more effort so far has been put into building structures and less in real work on the Presidency. This mechanism is yet to be seen whether and how it will work. It seems to me that if we give ourselves to momentum and do not do this analysis, we let someone else decide for us that six months earlier we should be ready, I think that this headquarters that you have made now should fall should become a crisis headquarters, and next year we should surely introduce martial law to deal with the technical side of the issue and not to mention the content, because obviously all the discussions that have been held so far regarding the priorities within the troika will now have to be reconsidered from the point of view of what Estonia and Bulgaria will be dealing with during their presidencies. In fact, we're going to have to start doing a little bit of the work again. Instead of standing around and waiting, I think it's right that we really do realize whether we can really withdraw this presidency by six months and if we can't, look for other options, because after us [[the President signals that time has run out]] For example, it is Austria, which could probably replace Britain as a substitute for such a type, more flexible solutions, which would not put at risk and failure the first presidency of Bulgaria, which I really hope will be successful. By making this.. understand it both as criticism and as encouragement, it is because we want to succeed, not to make empty party propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Hole, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u91	I'm counting on your word, Mr. Vigenin. In the autumn, I will propose to Parliament to unite around this Bulgarian Presidency to serve for nothing but to create unity between the different parliamentary groups and at all in society. The word 'war operation', with all due respect, take it as a joke, I used it at the beginning, when I took over this portfolio and said that the Bulgarian Presidency is something like a military operation, so we have a headquarters. This continues to be so, probably with even greater intensity. I believe that the organisation of the Presidency is the most important. With regard to priorities, I have no worries that the Financial Framework will be within our interest that the Energy Union will be within our interest, yet we know that we are choosing three priorities from ten existing For Austria, whether it will replace Great Britain or will be raised by just six months all the presidencies, by the way this will coincide with elections in Austria, so there may be another development I am giving you a sign of this, so you will think. Estonia has already expressed its readiness to deal with this issue. How can it be compensated? Of course, with very serious internal restructurings. I will use the administration of the other ministries and the Foreign Ministry for Headquarters, that is, people will be familiar with it, for which it will not be difficult to get in quickly. We will probably have a problem with the speed with which public procurement should happen, because it is about repairing, equipment, translation, crossing mode, that is, registration, we are moving faster training of employees, that is, they will have to come out of their direct duties in the relevant ministries in order to have a very intensive training. As a public procurement contract has been announced, it will begin in a mass manner, in all likelihood, since the beginning of next year, but before that we have already completed from September such trainings, which begin with presidents and vice-presidents of the working groups. I myself will tour all the ministries next week so that a colleague by colleague, on the ground, can talk about their readiness. Mr. Vigenin, I will really rely on support and I would like to tell you that the Presidency is still a state of spirit, and if we are united and do what you say, a single sign as a nation, I think we will succeed. Thank you for your concern and I will keep you informed at all times.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u92	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. There is a question for you from the National Representative Radan Kanev concerning a new crossing regime at 9. French Language School of Alphonse de Lamartine. Here you are, Mr. Kanev, as far as I know, you went there. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education! On the nine-year-old website. French Language School was published information about the introduction of a new crossing regime in the school with magnetic cards, and a letter was sent to the parents of the students at that school, and from both texts, especially from that of the letter came the conclusion that the admission through the new magnetic card entry system will be performed exclusively with bank debit cards of the First Investment Bank, and that on these debit cards the scholarships will be transferred to over 300 winners who are currently studying at 9. French high school. Of course, there is no record of such a thing being illegal, but it immediately caused serious concerns. First of all, there is lobbying for all scholarships to be paid through a certain bank and not at the choice of parents and their children. Secondly, that perhaps the most prestigious Sofia school is starting to advertise a certain financial institution, i.e. a private commercial company. The more serious concern is that, in this way, the school's crossing regime is actually put on the basis of a private trading company, because whoever issues the debit cards, he and blocks the debit cards, that is, it may be that if a parent, for example, has an outstanding loan to the First Investment Bank, the next day his child cannot enter the school. I think it's clear and symbolic, it's an unpleasant precedent to enter a school with a bank card. In this regard, my questions are: are such practices admissible from the point of view of the Ministry of Education and Science, whether an inspection has been carried out and what are the following measures taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u94	Thank you. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, you have the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kanev, let us, first of all, quote, which you have also made, the reference to the website of the high school of June 30th, is finally written as follows: The desire of the management of 9. The French language school is not to oblige parents to be customers of a certain bank, but to provide them with an additional opportunity and from 28 June 2016. The same is the content of the letter to the parents, it is said: "If some parent strongly disagrees with his child to hold such a debit card, the student will receive a magnetic card for access, the cost of which will be paid, with a period of use, while the child is a student in the high school. Of course, however, on this particular case, which has also caused the attention of Parliament and the media, we have done an immediate inspection. Neither the information published on the school website nor the letter to the parents, as I deliberately quoted, contains a text to mislead that issuing a bank card is mandatory. Two days after publication of the initial message came out and this very important clarification. Despite the fact that there is no direct violation of the regulations operating in the system of public education by the management of 9. French High School, we think there should be an explanation, but the first explanation of your answer to the question is about sanctions by 9. French language high school my response is negative, sanctions to high school will not and will not be. However, I take occasion from the specific case to present some principled positions of the Ministry. Even if it is commendable that there is an initiative to increase the security of life and health of students in schools, such an obligation also stems from the current legal framework, and in this case there is also a letter of the Regional Education Inspectorate Sofia-City about the need to take and strengthen security measures. Secondly, in principle, it is worth encouraging school practice to take advantage of modern technological opportunities that would facilitate students' families, but what the Ministry recommends and the model that we encourage schools to implement is more competitiveness and transparency. For example, to give information on how to choose this particular bank, were other banks invited to submit a proposal, were they answered, were these the most advantageous conditions for parents and students? There are other schools with which a positive example can be given, since such a practice of correctness and openness has been established even if there is no formal legal requirement for this. You've met with the management of high school and I think your speech after that view was quite positive. I believe that consumer protection, even small consumers, should be at a very high level. The right to choose is a sacred right for the consumer before it was another bank, it should also be subjected to a similar approach. In general, let people know what they choose and it be their sacred right, whether they are students or whether they are already grown consumers. Thank you, we continue to monitor the matter, I assure you we will not miss a reaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u96	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Would you like a line, dear Mr. Kanev? Yeah. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u97	Dear Mrs. Kuneva, thank you very much for your reply. I would like to point out that I welcome as a parent my child will be in the first grade this year, the security measures of this type in the Bulgarian school and I hope they will become more and more, because we all know that there are risks, there are problems. I also welcome the way the leadership at 9. French High School reacted after the issue became public, came out in the media, heard the concerns of parents and students. I think their reaction was quick, timely, by providing maximum information to parents, students and media, as well as by clearing obviously problematic texts, both on the site and in the letter of the parents. Including the fact that if you don't want someone with a bank card, you'll find another option, and now it's quite clear that fall entering high school will be, in the first place, with a magnetic card issued by the school. This magnetic card will be free, i.e. these two levs have dropped out, and everything related to the bank card is already a backup option, at the request of the parents, if they prefer to do so. In this context, I am also very happy that your answer is that there are no sanctions. Obviously this is about a case where communication is a better model for solving the problem than sanctions. To conclude, I would like to state my opinion that the existence of better or worse practices in different schools should perhaps lead us to the idea that banks should not ensure the security of the Bulgarian school or access to it. There is nothing wrong, we all want someday, like in Estonia, with one carrier, with one magnetic card to solve all problems related to public services, and with banking services, but it is good to be state and not to be private. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So not everything to be in the hands of our bank card, but our bank information on our ID card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. A hole? Here you are, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u99	I want to be absolutely clear that what they posted on the page of 9. French high school was before the matter even happened, so to speak, widely discussed. Therefore, I believe that there is no reason to impose sanctions on the management of high school. Otherwise, any attempt to make sure that high schools have security, to have more than one technical opportunity, I think it is useful, and schools to make sure that they attract as much support as possible if parents and students want what is not worth anything to the students. It's their right. That is precisely why I think that the principal did not do I, by the way, knowingly did not see her personally, because I do not think that I should stress the principal in this way, but I think that she has acted wisely, calmly and with openness. I hope that any such a well-meaning debate will give a warning about how sensitive our society is to ensure a choice, but at the same time to stimulate the independent and practical thinking of every single director who wants his school to be the best. And since you have graduated from this high school, Mr. Kanev, I hope that in terms of this desire and this ambition of the French high school, it will also find support in positive assessments of each of her former students.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u100	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's the last question for you. He is from the National Representative Velizar Enchev and is about the competition for lecturer in Bulgarianism at the University of Vienna. Here you are, to develop your question, dear Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u101	Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, honourable colleagues! The Ministry of Education and Science announced a competition for lecturers in Bulgarian language, literature and culture for the academic 2016 - 2017 at foreign universities, including Vienna University. To the competition for lecturer in Bulgarian language, literature and culture at the University of Vienna, along with the other candidates, a lecturer was admitted, Mrs. Kuneva, from the University of Plovdiv, who is not an associate professor, but a chief assistant, and even stranger is that second place in the ranking is an associate professor who should take the first place. Under the scientific circumstances that should be defining in such a contest, the chief assistant's candidacy should not be allowed at all. It should drop even when examining the documents, as it does not meet the first and most important condition, and it is the candidate to be a habilitated person so that he can lead and help the doctorate. Here I would like to stress that there is hardly a university in the world where unhabilitated people run PhD students, in fact this is not accepted in our country either. At the University of Vienna, Mrs. Kuneva, who is the heart of the Slavics from the moment of her birth, there is still... and thank God, lecture in Bulgarian language, in Bulgarianism, while in many other universities it is closed and in its place quickly and seamlessly accommodates Macedonianism, whose cause, we know, is frankly anti-Bulgarian. Ignoring the requirements of the host country, in the case of the University of Vienna, and holding a competition in Bulgarian, in the bad sense of the word, as a person, I think we voluntarily abdicate from the hard-earned positions in European universities and discredit ourselves with this example. In this sense, I believe that the Bulgarian side should strictly respect the conditions set by Vienna. That's why my question to you is this. What will you do as a minister to restore the regulation and the competition to broadcast a candidate fully compliant with the requirements of the University of Vienna and the Bulgarian legal standards? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u102	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Here you are, Deputy Prime Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Enchev! I will also address Mr. Zhelev specifically, because it was a question he asked me in the blitzcontrol. I promised I'd be more thorough today when I answer to you. You're right, such a contest is allowed. It is true that the same candidate received the most votes from the committee and was therefore ranked first. But before the proposals are sent to the host country, the higher school should be approved by me as Minister of Education and Science. I also note that applications to the host country are sent to the rankings in the first place, as well as to the next two reservations. But practice shows that often universities are not influenced by the arrangement offered to them. In many cases they choose a candidate as a lecturer from among the so-called reserves. In this particular case, I did not give approval.. you ask me what I will do, I did not give approval and I returned the case to the committee for a new examination, so the candidacy of the person who does not meet the specific requirements of the University of Vienna will not be sent to the host country. However, why it has come to this situation is more important to tell you. The competition for selection of lecturers in Bulgarian language and literature is held by a specially appointed commission with my order. Lecturers or professors of Bulgarianism and linguistics from leading Bulgarian universities are part of the panel for selection of lecturers. The rules of the committee are also validated by an order of the Minister of Education and Science. In this case, I want to tell you that this isn't me. These rules are not approved by me, but by a former colleague. The rules shall contain requirements for applicants who are listed but mention the possibility for the host party to set its own specific requirements, only that a omission is allowed. It is not stated that a candidate who does not meet both categories of requirements cumulatively is dismissed from the examination of the documents. I think it's a pass and I'm going to change it. After our attention has been drawn to you, the committee has not formally broken the rules, the application of the lecturer in question has met the conditions laid down in those same rules before. But from then on, every member of the committee votes with a secret vote on internal convictions. I would not like us to despise all of us here in this House that the committee, where they are scientists with very great authority, do not have so many Bulgarians, acted out of selfish motives. Each one of them, as a proven specialist in his field, supported the candidate he considered most worthy of. I would like to point out that it is clear from the minutes of the committee's meeting that the matter has been discussed. The fact that the candidate does not meet the specific requirements of the University of Vienna and has been discussed by a representative of mine by a representative of the Ministry of Education... In this situation, I can draw the following conclusion: I am reviewing each case separately, i.e. I am reviewing the rules, and I cannot review each case separately, but in the event of any irregularity occurring after the signal received, we immediately examined the case and took measures in the following guidelines: Firstly, a decision has been made as appropriate for this case: I repeat, the application will not be sent to the University of Vienna. Secondly, the committee has not committed a formal infringement, and I call on us to show respect for their authority as people of high professional qualities. Thirdly, it is in my rules to amend the rules under which the committee operates and I will do so so that it is indeed impossible to get such a situation again. I would like to thank both Members of the National Assembly who paid attention to this matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. For a replica, the People's Representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u105	Yes, Mrs. Kuneva, this is one of the rare occasions in which I would like to thank you most sincerely for your position. Firstly, what you have announced that the candidacy will not be sent to the University of Vienna, because it does not meet the requirements of both the host country, the University of Vienna and our rules, all the more so that you guarantee that you will also amend the rules, which is even more important, as these rules, which have been in force so far, allow for such a violation. I use the reason to say that there should really be no such precedents in the future, all the more so that in Bulgaria the tax collectors and professors are not finished, so that a chief assistant is more valuable than them. Of course, here I will express my opinion on this decision, which has been taken because it is known that this candidate, with all due respect to him, is a former MP, however, this is not a position, is not a position and is not enough for habilitation. So once again I congratulate you on your firm position to cancel, and rather not to send his candidacy to the University of Vienna, but especially for your intention to amend the rules that have led to this unpleasant precedent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u106	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Would you like to use the right to the back? No. With this, the participation of Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva in today's parliamentary control ended with the answers to the three questions. Thank you for your participation. We continue with questions to Ljiljana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who will first answer a question from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Bulgaria has allocated more than 1 billion. lv. for renovation of Bulgarian citizens' homes. The program was adopted with great interest from the people. In this regard, I would like to ask you the following questions: first, how much money has been used for renovation? Secondly, what is the exact number of sanitized dwellings in the Republic of Bulgaria? Third, what is the number of dwellings renovated in the city of Plovdiv? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u108	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Atanasov! As you mentioned, since the beginning of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency and Refurbishment of Residential Buildings, I would say that really the interest in the Programme is quite high, almost 4000 3800 are registered associations of owners with the desire to participate in the Programme. Approved for financing and concluded contracts with municipalities are over 2,400, almost 2,500 buildings that are approved for financing and are currently being implemented. The exact number is 1947 buildings throughout the country. Of these 25 are fully completed and put into operation, 102 buildings already have started construction and installation activities, and 1548 buildings are in procedure Each of these buildings is at some stage of implementation and realization of the Programme. For the buildings put into operation and those implemented are 63 million, 153 million are generally claimed for those implemented. We expect in the coming months as a result of these around 700 tender procedures that we have in the forthcoming conclusion of contracts, respectively, this amount will continue to increase. Regarding Plovdiv specifically. For Plovdiv I can say that we have 143 registered associations of owners, we have and concluded 84 contracts with the municipality of them, 84 are also submitted to the Bank for Development, and 61 contracts for targeted financing are signed of them. From them there are started activities for 54 buildings related to the investigation and energy or launch of a contract for choice of contractor. The order that was announced was an open procedure, announced on 4 July for 54 buildings. Its indicative value is 54 million. lv. The deadline for submission of documents is 9 August. I hope that the municipality will do as soon as possible to conduct this contract quickly, to select a contractor in order to be able to start not only in this construction season, but also completed the buildings, because our experience so far shows that in most cases within two months, maximum of three are able to be fully completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u110	Thank you, Minister Pavlova. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u111	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, it would rather not be an exact line, but I would say my attitude to your answer. I am pleased with your reply....................................................................................... [[Single applause by BSP LB.]] The other thing I also want to say is this. I am glad that from this high tribune on such an important programme the numbers heard the whole people. Everybody jump to conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u112	Thank you. Minister, we are going to the next question to you from the National Representative Manol Genov on funding from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which is provided to the municipalities under a developed Programme for improving the quality of drinking water. Mr. Genov, you're welcome to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u113	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! My question is on funding from MRDPD, which is provided to municipalities under a developed Programme for improving the quality of drinking water and reducing the losses on the water supply network. A few days ago, I think in early May, on your visit to Varna, you announced that the Ministry provided Varna 3 million. lv. for reconstruction of plumbing, which is part of the Programme with projects to improve the quality of drinking water and reduce losses on the water network. It has become clear from your words that the Programme is a major source of investment in the industry, and European Union funds are becoming additional funding. You claim that some of the envisaged agreements with municipalities, by which funds from the Ministry's budget are being made available to them, have already been concluded. I therefore ask you to answer me: what is the amount of financial resources provided for this kind of activity or this Programme, if any? What are the criteria for financing these projects? What are the ways in which the project proposals are selected? How many agreements are concluded, which municipalities and which are to be concluded with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u114	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, as you know as a person with experience in the water sector, every year according to the State Budget Act MRRB has, albeit dramatically insufficient for the needs of the water sector, capital expenditure budget for investments in the field of plumbing, sewerage, treatment facilities and support of settlements with problematic water supply or settlements where water contains manganese or other dangerous elements. European funding must always be complementary to national funding as a principle. Of course, in countries such as ours, where there are underfunded sectors, such as the water infrastructure sector, European funds represent a large part of the financial resources for the sector. The water infrastructure sector has three main financial sources. Firstly, this is the Operational Programme of the Environment, within which there is an opportunity to invest 2 billion. BGN, but as you well know, it has specific conditions that must be met in advance in order to direct these funds. The first condition is to have an area-level consolidation of all operators in one area operator. The second condition is to have a regional pre-investment survey and specific projects. The third condition is for settlements with an equivalent population of over 10,000. The second source is the Rural Development Programme, on which we also have the opportunity to invest in rural areas in the water infrastructure. The condition is once again the corrupted and reformed water and management structure on the ground. It's for settlements with less than 2,000. Resident equivalent. Between 2 and 10,000. there is no European funding equivalent, and this is a large part of the settlements in the country, for which we have to make efforts with budget funds, targeted funding, with funds from the budget of the Ministry of Capital and under the Fund of the Ministry of Environment and Water, as well as lending funds to municipalities or water companies. The Ministry, within the framework of the budget at its disposal, is 23 million. lv. for this year, I hope from now on for each following year, as we have provided for in the three-year budget forecast, with a minimum of 20, even 23 million per year, to support investments in the water sector, prioritizing them in three main directions. The first main priority is the settlements for which there is currently the most urgent need and the biggest problems with water supply; settlements that have a problem with the quality of drinking water; completion of old, transitional projects started in previous years; and because always a very important criterion is the number of populations that need to be served; large settlements where large infrastructure projects for repair and construction of streets, urban environment, urban or transport infrastructure with European funding, such as the 39 major cities in the country's territory, are to be successfully, qualitatively, efficiently and sustainablely, to make repairs of the central urban area in these cities. It is also important to do underground infrastructure, so that it does not turn out that there will be accidents or unchanged underground infrastructure and we will destroy these implemented projects. The total contracts concluded so far are 20 with agreements granted to municipalities of 20 million. The remaining 3 million. lv. are transitional projects in which the Ministry is a contracting entity and with them it completes the investments in this sector from the total budget available for this year of 23 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u116	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Genov, will you take the attitude? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u117	Madam Minister, it is not serious to say that the main funding is this 23 million. When we put it together, it'll be 69 million in three years. Can we counter 69 million to the two billion, as you yourself said?! Perhaps the main investment should be from the water companies themselves that generate income from the population for this purpose. I have made a commitment to you 100 days not to ask you about the water reform. The time is coming and I'll start asking. It seems to me that the water supply reform is starting to drown her and we're not getting her anywhere. We are putting at risk the funds from Operational Programme "Environment". However, let us let the three pillars of the reform be completed in time, see what will happen and when the funds under this Operational Programme and the Rural Programme will actually start to be used, which you quoted just now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u118	Thank you. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mrs. Secretary. You won't take advantage. We continue with a common question by the MPs Dimitar Delchev and Nastimir Ananiev for the launch of the construction of Lot 3 from the highway The question will develop Mr. Delchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! My question concerns Blagoevgrad region and the construction of Struma Motorway in this area. Meeting with citizens often asks me the question: how far did the segment go? The completion of the section between the town of Dupnitsa and the town of Blagoevgrad last year led to a significant ease of traffic. At the same time, the remaining lot 3 section of the highway is one of the road sections in the country with the highest concentration of road crashes and especially the Kresna Gorge. In the part of the 17km road in the Kresna Gorge in three years there were 182 crashes with 15 killed and 82 injured according to the Ministry of Interior data. This year, in just the first four months, there have been seven deaths. The black statistics are fracking, but, apart from the reduction and completion of the highway, the Struma will improve the economic opportunities of the region and I deeply believe that it will divert traffic, which is currently passing through Greece and boarding the ferry, will divert it through Bulgaria, which will lead to more transit fees and consequently profit for the region from various accompanying services. Dear Minister, in an interview during your previous visit to Blagoevgrad more than a month ago, you said that two parts of Lot 3: Blagoevgrad will start building Krupnik and Kresna Sandanski and the project for the Krupnik route will be discussed. In this regard, I would like to ask you: when is the effective construction of Lot 3.1 and 3.3 of Struma Motorway and the tunnel at Zheleznitsa planned to begin? When is the discussion planned for Lot 3.2 to be completed, and how long do you expect to receive the answer from the European Commission for the financing of the project? Thank you in advance for your reply, because citizens in Blagoevgrad really hope this will happen quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u120	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. For his question in anticipation of the general answer the word has Mr. Ananiev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u121	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! My question is mainly related to the road safety of the Kresna Gorge now, at the moment. On 26 April, on my initiative, I organized a round table in Blagoevgrad, which was attended by the district governor, representatives of the API, the Road Police, quite good representation in relation to the black section, which is in the Kresna Gorge or, in particular, these 17 km of the gorge itself, in which we established two so-called Black Publishing Stations. The one at the beginning of these 17 km, and the other 5 km at the end of the gorge, where there is the greatest concentration of PTPs and perished. At the discussion itself, we discussed that some action should be taken right now, before the summer season, when there are most travelers when the worst catastrophes happen. Your colleague Georgi Zlatev made a commitment to make an audit report and to take concrete measures. You know, on May 5, we had a meeting with you and Mr. Zlatev. One of the topics we discussed again was related precisely to the Kresna Gorge. There we discussed different options that can be made. For me it is important to find out if there have been any action taken at the moment, as the summer season is already in full swing, you know that very recently there has been a major accident there with a truck. I hope that some concrete measures have been taken to reduce this black statistic, even if it costs us a delay in traffic, to delay the pass-through opportunity for these 17 kilometres, but people to get to their destination alive and be able to have a good vacation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you are, Madam Minister, for a general answer to the questions asked by the National Representative Delchev and the National Representative Ananiev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u123	Thank you. Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Delchev, dear Mr. Ananiev, I shared the question because it is important, apart from the moment we take action, as we discussed with you, Mr. Ananiev, urgent measures for road safety. As Mr Delchev said, road accidents in the Kresna Gorge region in these 17 km, unfortunately, are everyday. This is one of the most critical risk areas identified by us, together with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior as areas with high concentration of road accidents. So I'm going to start the answer backwards. What we have adopted as emergency measures, together with the colleagues and teams of the Ministry of Interior, is the coordination of new signs and, accordingly, at the discretion and, where possible, the authorities of the Regional Police Directorate for Live Patrol in the area, because respect also creates prerequisites. The biggest problem when passing into the ravine is the incorrect overtaking in an absolute lack of visibility. That's the problem. Besides raising each and every one of us as a driver, it is collegiality and compliance with the law. I guess that's the kind of equipment we need. The second thing we discussed, of course, is the installation of speed cameras, which also has a disciplinary effect for traveling drivers. In parallel, we have conducted a procedure, as we have spoken with you, and we have committed ourselves to a contractor, a licensed auditor, who will conduct a road safety audit and prescribe specific road safety measures to be made further in the gorge section. We signed the contract at the end of last month and at the end of this month we will have a report. As a result of the report, we will be able to install, if recommended, other additional safety measures as prescribed in this report. Meanwhile, we have undertaken and secured the entire section of the gorge, as it suffers from another problem - these are falling stones. We have a special project signed with a contractor that makes high-strength safety in precisely the most critical areas, as they are also a prerequisite for road accidents. The tunnel lighting was completely replaced at Railways also part of the area that creates road accidents, as repaired and compromised areas in this direction, including for better visibility were further cut down and cut out shrubs and the rock material was cleaned. These are the most urgent measures we have taken. The larger measures will have a road safety methodology. In the rest of the time, our strategic and high priority is the completion of the motorway in this area and the remaining kilometers from it. Lot 3 is divided into four sub-units. One of them is the contract for completion of the highway from Blagoevgrad to Krupnik. The selected contractor made its project because the project is of Engineering. The project is ready and its procedural coordination is going. But more importantly, on the basis of the completed project, we are making estranged procedures a parcel plan to alienate the land, and I hope that by the end of the next month, we will be able to carry out these alienation procedures by two months. However, if there are appeals, you know that this will stop the procedure for issuing the building permit. So for those parts of property for which there will be no appeals as part of the procedure, the construction will be able to start at the beginning of September. Where there are appeals, we will issue partial building permits and begin the phased construction of this section. With regard to the next section for which we have a selected performer, this is Kresna "Sandanski," there the project is also ready. The alienations have already passed the Council of Ministers. Over 5,000 notifications have been given to property owners, and there have already been appeals. Unfortunately, some of the appeals in the court are scheduled to be dealt with as cases for the spring of next year. But for those sections for which we have no appeal or have the consent of the owners to at least allow us to enter the field, the construction will be able to start by the end of August and issue a partial building permit. We are once again in the hypothesis of partial, but you know the Constitutional Court's decision, with which we must also wait for appeals, we cannot begin directly with a preliminary implementation. Unfortunately for us, this is delaying all projects. With regard to the third substation, this is the big tunnel of Zheleznitsa, it is again in the direction from Blagoevgrad to Krupnik. The tender procedure was suspended due to a complaint at the KPC and the SAC. The good news is that you have spoken in our favour and we are continuing the tender procedure. The auction will resume on Monday, July 12th. The deadline for the submission of tenders must be extended with the suspension period, which means mid-August. This will be the deadline for submission of tenders. I hope that in September, October at the latest, by autumn there will be an elected performer and again, if there is no appeal, we will begin the construction of the tunnel at Zheleznitsa. The most important section remains the 20 kilometers in the Gorge, of which 17 are on the territory of the Kresna Gorge. The selected contractor makes the design plus an environmental impact assessment on four selected terrains, which include the old tunnel, which is a combination of tunnels, viaducts, passage, maximum use of the existing route, as well as several other alternative options along the route. You know, there are serious appeals from environmental organizations and other organisations in this procedure. I am convinced that by the end of the year, we could manage, analyze the four routes, do the study and assessment of environmental impact, and do the public discussions. It is important, as a result, to find the best compromise solution in terms of technical implementation of the project, in terms of its economic elements, especially in terms of environmental protection. And the environment is important, but human life is even more important to make a non-conflict passage through the Defilet precinct. We look at, repeat, options: the existing path to be one direction, and the road to it, to it, to it, to the side of the ski, to the opposite movement. In this way, to the fullest extent possible to satisfy both environmental needs and the technical parameters of this project. The project will be submitted for approval next year, when it is ready, in the European Commission, so the Department of Defilet itself as a construction site cannot start before the end of 2017 and the beginning of 2018, as real deadlines for implementation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I hope that by then at least the two sub-sectors from Blagoevgrad to Krupnik and from Kresna to Sandanski will be underway and will be built by 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u124	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Delchev is already ready for treatment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u125	I thank you, Madam Minister, first of all, because you have given specific deadlines that are encouraging. They show that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is really trying at a rapid pace, as far as it depends on it, to build this highway in its entirety. Secondly, because both you and I have the same concern for people's lives, for the speed and economic benefits we would have had from completing such a highway. I have two supplementary questions. One: if, as you say, Lot 3.1 starts to be built in September, what time do you expect it to be completed in order to imagine how long it will take? The second supplementary question is rather a finding. After your response and your confidence that if estrangement procedures, appeals are passed and everything is fine, the highway will be built, I suppose, there are no fluctuations in funding, that is, the financing of the highway has long been secured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u126	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Mr. Ananiev, come in for a reply or attitude to the response received.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u127	Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Thank you for the information you provided. My only concern is that if we wait another month for the report from the auditors, the summer will almost be over. I keep my fingers crossed, and I hope there aren't any serious accidents in the meantime. You and I have discussed grating asphalt, possibly splitting sails with solid dividers. I hope this audit report comes out faster. If you have any opportunity to speed it up, it will be good, as, you know, in summer there is the busiest and the most traffic accidents are happening (CTA). This is one of the black sections in general. I've taken out eight more in all of Bulgaria. I hope we'll be partners on all of them. On July 18, I am in Burgas, where we make a round table for the safety of the Burgas movement again. There's 187 crashes, 7 dead, 54 wounded. Plovdiv "Asenovgrad," Ruse "White," The Passage of the Republic "Gurkovo," Plovdiv "Haskovo," these are all black sections with very heavy statistics, I call them "black sections" for which I hope we can take some concrete action. We all know that the Kresna Gorge problem will be solved once and for all as soon as the highway is ready. But until then, if we can save a single human life with any measure, it's worth the effort. I hope for the other black sections we can also sit at the round tables. I would ask you to send a representative of yours to see any such black statistics on how to reduce it, what specific measures to be taken as a whole to get down from the first place in Europe to the more dead that we are. With joint efforts to deal with this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u128	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in for a common back-up with the two MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House, Dear Mr. Ananiev, Dear Mr. Delchev! I'll start with the question of deadlines and funding. Yes, we have secured funding for the entire course of the completion of the Motorway of the Motorway of the "Struma" Lot 3 in its four sub-divisions, and for two of them, as I said, we have concluded contracts. One contract is worth 181 million, for the Blagoevgrad section of Krupnik; 280 million is the Sandanski section of Kresna. For the railway tunnel, we are about to enter into a contract. Then we will have a clear value. The remaining funds will be invested in the Gorge, which, expectedly, is the most expensive stretch. So with the resource available, the total budget we have available is 673 million. Euros. Or 1 billion 300 million are available, available, confirmed, and insured, we have no concerns from this point of view. The two construction contracts that I mentioned have a term of execution, within the framework of the construction, I mean, two years. So if we start in August 2016, that's why I said 2018 a little while ago, because we will start partially and not simultaneously the entire section by the end of 2018. If we succeed faster with the alienations, at least in 2019 these two sections will be fully completed and we will work on the other section as well. Regarding the existing route and the safety measures we discussed with Mr. Ananiev. We decided not to put the cart in front of the donkey first to issue the audit with the recommendations and then to cut the asphalt or to make additional measures. Even during the conversation with the staffed road safety experts, we were warned that putting solid split pins in the middle of the canvas will create more prerequisites for road accidents than it will protect against. Not to mention that if an accident or a crash occurs, neither an ambulance can pass in the middle nor reverse, albeit two-way, the movement in the other lane. They do not recommend this type of rigid limiters specifically for the Defilment, but they are looking for another type of measures. I hope that at the latest on the 25th, I looked at the deadline, we will have this report. It's two weeks, let's have patience. It's important to have professional measures proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u130	The next question is from the National Representative Petar Kadiev about building a third lane of the road Asenovgrad. Here you are, Mr. Kadyev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! By mid-April, the study for the construction of a third lane on road II-86 Asenovgrad was scheduled to be completed................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Managing Authority of the Operational Program "Regions in Growth 2014 " 2020" has approved the project for rehabilitation of road II-86 Plovdiv "Asenovgrad," with a total length of 10.3 kilometers. The section is located in Plovdiv region and is among the busiest in the region. The total amount of the planned grant for the approved project amounts to 24,8 million. lv. The project provides for the construction of a second lane for movement and rehabilitation of the existing right lane of the section. At the same time, Smolyan's regional governor commissioned the implementation of the work project of the Rudozem border crossings. For the construction of the road by a Greek country, as well as for the Srednogortsi route, Rudozem from the Bulgarian section is provided funding under the Transboundary Cooperation Programme: Greece The implementation of this project will dramatically increase traffic in the region and the need for adequate infrastructure from the Bulgarian country is more than necessary. In this regard, my question to you is: when will the construction of a third band under the approved project under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u132	Here you are, Madam Secretary. In three minutes you can answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House, dear Mr. Kadiev! I can confirm that the repair, rehabilitation and expansion of the road Plovdiv is a project that is not only in good project readiness but has been approved for financing and has a contract for financing from the Operational Programme "Regions in growth 2014 " 2020" at the amount of almost 25 million. lv. A very important clarification that we need to make is that the project drawn up as a result of this investment, of this 25 million. BGN, at the nearly 11km "Kilometer" section of the Plovdiv direction, a 4-km movement will be built. It will take place in two lanes in the direction plus an emergency lane with a dividing strip, precisely in order to prevent heavy traffic accidents that are happening constantly on this section. This will be a 4-band road section with an emergency and a dividing strip to ensure maximum safe movement. In addition to the construction of the necessary number of bands to become four strips, we provide for rehabilitation of the existing and corresponding completion of a new route, as we also foresee a new circular movement in Krumovo, and one at the detour for Kuklen............................................................................... The tender procedure was announced in parallel with the project approval procedure in order not to waste time, because it is really urgent to start implementing this project. On 14 July the submitted offers were opened for all 15 lots, which we announced, including Plovdiv "Asenovgrad." There's a lot of interest in this lot, too. The evaluation committee shall examine the submitted tenders. Its deadline for work is 90 days if no extension is required due to missing documents, so I hope that if there are no problems, September of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The implementation period will be up to 15 months, but very often performers offer much shorter deadlines. In the autumn, I will be able to give you specific parameters after we have completed the tender procedure and the selected contractor begins his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u134	Thank you. Mr. Kadyev, come in for a line. You offer three strips, but the Minister even offers you four strips.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u135	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm happy with the answer. I am also interested in what is going on with the third canvas Asenovgrad. From what I understand, there's a procedure like this for pre-project research. You know that in our region the main livelihood is tourism. There's almost a week until Rozhen's big meeting starts. You know what traffic will be like there. Our managers currently in Smolyan make all sorts of possible options for faster passage, but ultimately such a third canvas is essential. I very much hope that a dream of smolyans, which has been a long time... This is what is currently stopping the main stream of tourists to our region. My question is: is there any possibility that, in the near future, this third sail of Asenovgrad will happen with Smolyan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u136	Here you are, Madam Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kadiev, you know that we are finishing the rehabilitation of the existing main and main way of contact precisely in the direction of Plovdiv. The rehabilitation of this section, of course, not only due to high traffic, but also because the area is in serious declines and collapses, has been extended by the annexation of the treaty, in which we have foreseen further damage to the skates, further construction and repair of the semi-tunnels we have in this direction. The project is financed by funds from the European Investment Bank. For its implementation, we have added a significant financial resource so that it can be implemented. From now on, according to the rules we have, once we make one such investment, we need to show its sustainability for the next five years. For the moment, we should be happy and grateful that we have had the opportunity to put in such a serious and significant amount, to repair and to finish in this direction. It's nice to have a third lane. Undoubtedly, the third bar gives opportunities, but at this stage we must first implement this project, retain its sustainability and ensure maximum, unconflict, smooth movement in this area, precisely by securing it from all these downhills and collapses through these berms, facilities that we are currently building and building over the past year, and only then will we be able to think of a third band. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u138	The next question is from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev about the road section Varna "Golden Sands." Here's your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! A little Varna theme. The road section Varna "Golden Sands," which passes through the stop "Trifon Zarezan" is problematic, as you know, as it is in an area where landslides have been in operation for years. A public procurement was announced last year for preliminary studies to restore the road around the landslide area. A month ago Mr. Stoyan Passev, governor of Varna, made a statement saying that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works gave his consent to the owner of the land in the area of the landslide in need of reinforcement to be compensated for the immediate strengthening of the area and the movement of the cars on the way to a stop. Mr. Pasev states that there will be a lot of money needed, which at the moment neither the municipality nor the state has. An amount of 100 thousand was added to the annual contract for exploration of the area. lv. Although the section is an important artery, especially in the midst of the tourist season, extremely busy for both the citizens and the guests of the city of Varna, the fact is that the road to the moment Varna is closed again. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: what are the results of the procurement and what are the measures taken by you to work the way from Varna to Golden Sands without the danger of using it and without the need to put funds into it annually? Within what time limits will normal operation of the road section be introduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u140	Here you are, Madam Minister for Answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the House, Mr. Kovachev! As you know, in the area of the municipal road, which connects Varna with Golden Sands and especially at the stop of Sport Palace is a serious landslide area. A landslide that was registered in the 1980s. 10 years ago, as a result of the active movement of this landslide, the road was completely lowered and in fact this led to the need for its complete closing for movement, as it is very dangerous. We're doing annual sweeps and this year's confirmed, unfortunately, that after all these years, the landslide is still active. This requires and creates the need to build special facilities for measuring and monitoring this active landslide area. In parallel with this, as we had committed, last year we commissioned a public procurement to be done in detail, in advance of an investment study of this site for the restoration of the municipal road, as well as detailed geodetic filming and an engineering-geological study, to see what are the possible actions with which we could strengthen this active and constantly moving landslide and what would be the possible project solutions for its recovery. The team's work ended at the end of July. On 30 July the team completed the work and last week the whole report and package of documents was offered to the Ministry for consideration and approval. The Ministry's experts, jointly with the Geo-defense, analyzed the report. They will give their recommendations, if any, for its improvement and the whole package of documents will be sent to the municipality of Varna. What is to be considered is the Varna Municipality to consider this report and to accept it to the Expert Municipal Council on a structure of the territory and to approve it. After which the municipality of Varna will have the opportunity to announce a designer procedure to propose the best design solution for a facility with which this landslide is likely to be passed, as strengthening the existing road due to the activity of the landslide is not possible. The only possible option we have at this point, I'm not an engineer specialist, but, again, I say, in words simple, it's a landslide clearance. It is very important, of course, that engineers find a good solution so that the foundations of this facility can be built on a firm basis. So I hope that by the end of the month we will provide the whole package of documents to the municipality of Varna in order to be able to examine the expert council and to take action on the design of the investment project. Why? Because we have one option under the Operational Programme "Environment" where there is a budget of 56 million. lv. for financing, investments in infrastructure related to overcoming landslides, Varna Municipality to apply for funding under this Programme. There is an indicative list of projects prioritized with the Association of Municipalities according to the registered critical landslides. The Municipality of Varna with this landslide, albeit in the reserves, is on the list of eligible municipalities, so when it prepares its project and when the Ministry of Environment and Water are ready to open their application procedure, I hope that this will still give at least one opportunity for partial funding. [[Replys on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u142	Thank you. Mr. Kovachev, you have the floor for a line to clarify your questions. [[Noise and lines.]] There's gonna be a douche after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u143	I thank you for your answer, Madam Minister, since there is still too little light. A lot of Varnans live in this area. I took the trouble last week to see what the condition was as far as the area is currently not even secure. One barrier is placed on both sides. They keep parking cars, which is kind of disturbing. We have good news and bad news. The bad news is definitely that the landslide is active. This means that as far as I understand it, you have already filmed the main landslide circus. You have a full analysis of the scope of the landslide. The fact that we're on the backup list isn't very good. I hope here on a Varna line, as we are both chosen in this area, to try to intercede, as today for Varnaians...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u144	No, there's no intercession here! The Minister is responsible for the entire country. It will clarify what further will be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u145	That's right. Because you are regularly harassed for Western Bulgaria, I think it is right for us Varna MPs to harass her for Varna. I just want one more question. From what I understand, the idea is to bypass the landslide, which means with some kind of estacade to torment some such idea. Have at least some of the negotiations reached on the benefits of some property since we heard some framing figures that are required by a few people there? That's the final question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u146	Thank you. Mrs. Minister, you have the opportunity for a dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u147	Thank you for your further question. Firstly, once again, we must say that you and I are not going to determine what the facility is going to be, whether it is a bypass, whether it is a corresponding summation, as I said, because when we are talking about transfiguration or whatever we call the facility, the idea is that the existing canvas is no longer going to be strengthened. Whether it will be with a large type of viaduct bridge, or it will be a low bridge, literally a meter from the existing canvas, on which its foundations will actually serve to strengthen the ski, this is precisely the purpose of this investment engineering study, which the municipality of Varna should assign and the designers to give the possible design solutions in such a serious active landslide. In places we have over 8 meters of depth of the landslide. In fact, these 8 meters are the biggest problem in finding the right engineering solution for the road to be stable and not dangerous. I'm talking to his new facility. What you are quoting about alienations and such pompous amounts and speeches, I cannot comment on them, because of such newspaper speeches of all kinds of people I do not believe, I do not believe in the principle. When an investment project is ready and it gives its detailed development plan together with a plotted plan, the plots will be determined whether they are municipal or private, a process of alienation will be carried out. Everything else is Koreans and populism, to which we should not fall for not only we who are responsible, but also the citizens of Varna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u148	Thank you. Let's expect that before next summer, the finality will be completed. [[Radio.]] The next question is from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov on the poor condition of the third-class road network on the territory of Hajredin municipality. Here you are, Mr. Bogdanov. Indeed the condition is bad and you will surely ask how to change. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u149	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! I'm questioning the status of the third-class road network on the territory of Hajredin municipality. There are numerous signals coming from the mayor of Hajredin Municipality, from municipal councilors, from mayors of settlements, as well as from individual citizens, informing me of the poor condition of the roads in the municipality. With a letter with an iz. No 404 of 24 June 2016 to the President of the Municipal Council in Hajredin Mrs. Svetla Petrova, I am again informed of the problem. The same claims in the letter that such signals have been sent repeatedly to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of the Republic of Bulgaria, but concrete actions have not been taken so far. In my view of the site, the poor state of the roads was confirmed, and separate sections of the third-class road network in question proved almost impenetrable for a normal passenger car. Dear Mrs. Pavlova, given the importance of the problem, the growing civic discontent, as well as the government's repeated concerns about Northwestern Bulgaria, I urge you for urgent action.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u150	Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u151	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bogdanov, yes, as you know, really the government's efforts and through the special programme that we have developed since this year is with additional funds from the budget every year to invest in improving the road network in Northern Bulgaria, of course with a special focus on Northwestern Bulgaria, but since the needs are at times greater than the budgetary capabilities, within a year there is no way to cope, so the programme will be multi-annual. For this year, with the additional funds of 140 million provided. lv. The government will repair 250 km in Northwestern Bulgaria and in Northern Bulgaria as a whole. On the territory of the Northwest and especially on the territory of Vratsa this year, priority has been chosen by priority. The priority is determined by the traffic that passes through the transit traffic, the heavy goods vehicles, on the one hand, and the number of population and vehicles that are served accordingly. For this reason we started with the entrance of Vratsa, on the one hand, who know what state it is in, Vratsa This is the reason for this year not being able to enter the main repair of the direction we have on the territory of Hajredin municipality in these settlements. Otherwise, we know about the necessity. The condition of the road is very bad. From the photos that you have, and we, I was on the spot and saw it with my own eyes, unfortunately, the road is not subject to being repaired along the line of current repairs. It is not subject to, simply because it is in such a bad condition from a patch on a patch, there is no longer anything to put on a sustainable, stable patch. She'd last no more than 24 hours. The road needs major repairs. It is divided into two subdivisions. One is from Mihailovo to Kriva bar 12 km long, indicative value of about 5 million. BGN, and the other is from Bursina to Mihailovo, 16 km long and indicative value of 6.3 million. BGN, in order to be able to do this preventive repair, so for this year from the sites we are making, there is still funding, we could partially start new ones. If not, from next year, from the new construction season we will do again as well as this year's program, on which we will begin to begin, in fact to continue rather, the renovation of the third-class road network in North and Northwestern Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u152	You have the floor, Mr. Bogdanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u153	Dear Minister, the findings you have made are exactly the same. Certainly many of the important road arteries in the Northwestern region are already either in operation of repairs or are completed, so from a point of view, I am not surprised by the answer to my question that you presented to the National Assembly. I think there is no MP who cannot find his own information about the calendar and activities that will be carried out by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency. The procedure of parliamentary control is also about paying attention to the relevant ministries in terms of the importance of certain problems, of accumulated public tensions and so on, and from the point of view of this, I urge a more serious reaction. Yes, of course, the budget funds have been estimated for this year and probably cannot be financed by the end of the year the reconstruction or construction of these road sections, which we mentioned just now, but still in the calendar plan for renovation activities for the next year, I very much hope that the entrusted Ministry will take up and pay attention to this, if we say the poorest region of Bulgaria, it is clear that it is so, but municipalities such as Hajredin, Borovan or other municipalities in Vidin and Montana, which are rural municipalities, are even poorer against the background of the overall picture of the Northwestern. Any interference there will be beneficial to the lives of the people living in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u154	Would you like a duplicate, Mrs. Pavlova? No. We are moving on to the last question you will answer from the National Representative Vili Lilkov on the need for urgent repair of a road section on the territory of Boynitsa Municipality, part of the Republican road network. Mr. Lilkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Pavlova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question concerns a third-class road, part of the Republican road network, on the territory of the municipality of Boynitsa, which connects the villages of Shichentsi, Gradskovski Kolibi, Borilovets, Perilovets and Rabrovo. Part of this road was renovated a few years ago, but there was one section that hadn't been repaired in more than 40 years. I can tell there's really no way. This is the division between Borilovets, Perilovets and Rabrovo. I personally traveled this precinct in about 35 minutes. We're talking about an eight-mile stretch between Borilovets and Perilovets. As I said, there is no real road there and therefore the shop in the village of Perilovets is closed, the ambulance can reach from Vidin to the village in about an hour, and the fire trucks travel for at least an hour and a half, as they are much heavier and cannot travel normally on this road. My question, Mrs. Pavlova, is this: what will you take to solve the problem with this road section, and at what stage is the design and ideas of the Ministry for its construction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u156	Here you are, Madam Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u157	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Lilkov, I am aware of the state of this road, as well as of other roads from the third-class network throughout the country, especially in Northern Bulgaria. As I replied to Mr. Bogdanov, the answer is absolutely relevant right now. You know the programme with which we started targeted investments in the roads in Northwestern and Northern Bulgaria. We prioritized them on principle, as I said, to the biggest traffic, to the busiest road arteries, so this year, with the 250 kilometers we're making, we're making the roads I mentioned earlier in the previous answer. Regarding this particular road, which is on the territory of the municipality of Boynitsa, yes, you know, one part of this time we were able to repair with the European funds that we had under the Operational Programme "Regional Development" so a large section was renovated and it is in very good condition. The division that remains to be repaired is actually 11 km from this road direction, which are in extremely poor condition. They are also the type of roads for which we already have the means available for the ongoing repair and maintenance of the roads in this territory will not help. From patch to patch this time is no longer able to be patched, because the mending lasts a day, up to two, up to three maximum, or until the first rain. A really serious major repair of this road direction is needed. It is also part of the projects that remain on the list of the next ones that we need to make efforts in the years ahead in order to make our overall programme and the targeted investments we make. I hope that, as of next year, again with the policy with which we continue for further targeted funding for Northwestern Bulgaria and the roads there, we can also include this road section and start its activities. We are prepared to begin immediately because this is on the principle of ongoing repairs, preventive repairs, namely, as we have done, to say, the Dimovo precinct and other areas that you were also acquainted with in the region. The question is to reach this additional target funding, I hope, from the next construction season of 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u158	You have the floor, Mr. Lilkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u159	Dear Mrs. Pavlova, I know the efforts that are being made now to solve the transport problems of the Northwest, but I want to tell you this. I don't expect this time to be repaired this year or next year because I know his condition and know what it takes, but at least start designing from this year to have a design readiness. I think it's no problem at least to clean up the rest of the asphalt this time, as there's a little bit of asphalt left on the road and a lot of holes. If this remaining pavement is removed here and there on the road, it will be better and normally we will move even if it is a black road, because it is now about trappings. With a little effort, we could do a sweep of this area so that at least the cars would pass normally. What I want to hear from you is there a project ready for this time, is it working on the project, as this takes a long time and requires some financial resources? It is clear that the construction is coming in the coming years, but at least to know that something is being done. Currently there is a danger, as the shop is closed, and gradually separate activities in the village I am talking about the village of Perilovets to finish because there is no real reach there. That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u160	Here you are, Madam Minister, for the doppelganger, to answer the further questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Lilkov, yes, you're right. Like I said, I'm aware of the condition of the road. What we can do with regional traffic control is to see how it can be relatively evened out to make it a little easier to pass the road. Regarding the design, yes, in the program we have the opportunity to assign this design. I told you, when we talk about preventive repair, a little easier and cheaper is this type of design, so when providing financial resources to us we will need about a month to be able to equip the project in a way to start its repair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u162	The questions have been completed for you, Mrs. Pavlova. Thank you. Now we move on to a question that will be answered by the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov. He is from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov on non-compliance with the instructions of the Ministry of Culture in the municipality of Nova Zagora. Here you are, Mr. Stanilov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u163	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! More than a year ago, I alerted you that the Nova Zagora Municipal Museum was run by an incompetent person who did not meet the legal requirements necessary for taking up the job. You tried to convince me that you gave the necessary instructions to the mayor of the municipality. As a result of the Commission's orders from the Ministry of Culture last year, the Director is no longer acting, but the requirement for competition is no longer met. According to the information I have at my disposal, the interim director, who doesn't have the necessary competence, has blocked the museum's activities, the materials are locked down, the inventory books are seized and so simply can't work. The real archaeological monuments and tourist sites are crumbling. The findings are stored under poor conditions, but measures in this regard can only take the director, who despite the report notes to him for nearly two years has done nothing. The museum was created on the basis of the collection of the Archaeological Society in the city, and it will turn out that despite the huge wealth of the regional museum fund there are no people to work. Professional archaeologists are fired. The leaving of the museum takes place without transmission and acceptance of the materials and taking appropriate responsibility. At the same time, protocols and inventory of the Archaeological Fund have been sent to the Ministry of Culture, although the verification has not been completed and the inventory is full of errors due to the fact that there is no expert archaeologist in the Commission's composition. The scandal has acquired international dimensions. Between the museum in Nova Zagora and the Roman-German Central Museum in Mainz, a unique contract for joint work was concluded, funded only by the German side. Since it cannot hide its competence from leading world scientists in Mainz, the acting director of the Nova Zagora Museum has sent a letter to Germany for unilateral termination of the contract. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what will you do to protect the museum in Nova Zagora and the international prestige of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u164	Here you are, Minister, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Stanilov, in connection with your question, I will inform you of the following. In preparation for a competition for Director of the Municipal Regional Museum the requirements of art. 8, para. 5 of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture and Art. 28, para. 6 of the Cultural Heritage Act. The mayor of the municipality concerned shall present to the Ministry of Culture the documents with the conditions for holding the contest. In accordance with the requirements of the Law, the same shall be agreed. Until now, no documents have been submitted to the Ministry of Culture to reconcile the conditions for a competition for director of the Municipal Museum in Nova Zagora. Regarding the failure to comply with the instructions of the Ministry of Culture in the municipality of Nova Zagora, I inform you as follows. In the period from 1 to 3 June 2015 at the Historical Museum in Nova Zagora, a check was carried out by the General Directorate for the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Regarding a violation of the Cultural Heritage Act on the conservation and preservation of movable cultural values and illegal appointments, violations have been found and a constitutional protocol has been drawn up. On July 6th, In 2015 the inspectors implemented a forced administrative measure of Nikolay Grozev "M Mayor of Nova Zagora Municipality," on the basis of art. 192, para. 1 and para. 2 in relation to Art. 31, t. 2 of the Cultural Heritage Act. On 23 November 2015, the last verification was carried out and a constitutional protocol was drawn up. On 1 December 2015 an act of administrative infringement of the mayor of Nova Zagora municipality was drawn up under the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties due to failure to comply with a compulsory administrative measure under art. 228 of the Cultural Heritage Act. By letter dated 30 March 2016 to the Director of the Historical Museum and to the Minister of Culture Mr. Veselin Ignatov, curator at the museum, challenged the legality of an order issued by the Director concerning movable cultural values in the Department of Archaeology. By letter dated 30 May 2016, the Director of the Historical Museum in Nova Zagora declared the existence of a technical error in the order cited and informed in detail about the situation in the process of carrying out inventory in the Department of Archaeology. In view of the information received on the basis of art. 15, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 192, para. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act was issued an order of 17 June 2016 to the Minister of Culture to carry out an inspection at the Historical Museum in Nova Zagora on compliance with the Cultural Heritage Act and regulations. The verification will be carried out in the period 11-15 July 2016. For the results of the verification, a consolidated report should be drawn up and administrative criminal measures should be taken if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u166	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Stanilov, for a reply to the information presented in the response of Minister Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u167	Dear Minister, your detailed answer shows that the Ministry of Culture is driving this issue. There's no doubt about that. The problem is that this issue has been dragging itself for the past two years. The archaeologist mentioned by you is one of the great explorers in Bulgaria. A few years ago he discovered a unique Thracian chariot, which is the subject of this particular contract with the museum in Mainz. On this basis, he must be held responsible precisely for the failure of this international treaty, because the Roman-German Central Museum in Mainz is the largest research centre in Europe for conservation, restoration and technological research. To disgrace ourselves there is under all criticism. I think things with this director have come to the D.A.'s office, but that will depend on what your final check will do. In my opinion, the acting director will not be very impressed by the administrative and criminal measures, but will be impressed by the investigation and measures of the prosecution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u168	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov, for your participation in parliamentary control. We move on to questions that Justice Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer. The first is from the MP Yavor Haytov about the Bulgarian prisons. Here you are, Mr. Haytov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Unfortunately, there are not one and two cases in which Bulgaria is sentenced by the European Court of Human Rights. Unfortunately, the punishment is a monetary penalty that we all pay both you and me and all Bulgarian citizens. Some of the cases I am not only talking about the last report we have received, in which cases Bulgaria has been sentenced by the European Court of Human Rights, but also in the years. It became clear from public appearances and journalistic investigations that in places of imprisonment issues such as drug use, telephone fraud, possession of means of communication, sexual violence and abuse, beatings are almost everyday. It is obvious that the administration fails to introduce in general rules to implement criminal justice in full, namely by sequestering individuals who committed crimes, to enable them, on the one hand, to re-educate and, on the other hand, to influence deter and prevent others who intend to commit a crime. Madam Minister, I ask you to answer: what is the situation with regard to information in the media that in the prison of Belene the use of drugs, beatings, abuses, telephone fraud is everyday and that this is mass practice in other places of imprisonment in our country? What do you foresee as an administration for the implementation of reform in the prison case? Because unfortunately, the government's Program for Sustainable Governance of Bulgaria during the current period on this topic does not say anything. Somehow the problem is swept under the carpet, as we are used to saying, and in prison places there are an average of about 10,000 Bulgarian citizens who, instead of being re-educated in one way or another, face the most ugly forms of prison cohabitation. All this becomes known to the entire Bulgarian public, to the whole of Europe and the whole world. Please inform me what measures you intend to take to end these vicious practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u170	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. It occurred to me that unfortunately these vicious practices are also largely out of prisons, but you are quite rightly putting them in prisons as well. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u171	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Haytov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the information emerging in the public domain that drugs are used in Belene prison, violence and abuse, and phone fraud is being carried out, it is the impression that in Belene prison and other prisons these events are daily and mass practice, and the prison administration is unable to deal with the problems. I would like to say that this is absolutely not true and these practices are not everyday! At the end of May and in June of this year, the Directorate General has carried out four inspections in the prison in the town of Belene, two of them before the release of the information and two after that. A check was carried out by the Inspectorate under the Law on Administration at the Ministry of Justice and by the District Prosecutor's Office Pleven before the broadcast of the report. It was found from the checks carried out that the activities of the recordings were carried out in the autumn of 2013. Following their disclosure in April, and not by the administration of the prison in Belene, rather than by the signal of the victims themselves, the administration of the prison in Belene has issued an alert to the District Prosecutor's Office. Criminal proceedings have been conducted, resulting in five persons being sentenced to imprisonment effectively to four years. Victims have not sought assistance from the surveillance staff, nor have they informed the representatives of the Committee for the Prevention of Torture to the Council of Europe, who were at the same time visiting the prison. The analysis of the records during the checks did not identify any videos, images containing violence which were not the subject of the criminal proceedings carried out in 2004, i.e. what they presented by bTV to the prosecution and the analysis carried out on the records proves that these are the records on the basis of which the persons are actually sentenced to effective imprisonment. Deprived in prison in Belene are not left out of control and are actively working with them. A number of social activities have been implemented with the persons. According to the stated desire and identified problem areas, prisoners have passed through various training modules, which include self-help, responsible behavior, anger management skills, initial computer literacy, have the opportunity to study German and Romanian, as well as to increase their educational level in the school to prison and many others. More than 217 prisoners are involved in the work, doing everything they need to increase their number. The lack of employment has a negative impact on both the legal situation of prisoners and the ability to effectively influence their correction and re-education. Something you're absolutely right about is that one of the main functions of imprisonment should be re-education other than punishment. Unfortunately, the phenomena mentioned in the media occur in prisons. Although they are not everyday they happen and this is unacceptable. Unfortunately, I would say that it does not only happen in Bulgaria. There is also the Committee of the Council of Europe for a reason. If there were no problems and problems only in Bulgaria, it would not exist for 47 countries, members of the Council of Europe. Their appearance is separate from the following factors. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] First of all, I will point out the existing overcrowding and the bad conditions in the prisons, and you are absolutely right. For over 50 or 60 years in these places, almost no funds have been invested. There are prisons, which were built before 1938, were renovated last year. The prison in Stara Zagora was renovated with major repairs. The Ministry of Justice has taken concrete steps in the last year to address the problems related to poor material conditions in prisons in implementation of the pilot decision of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Neshkov and others against Bulgaria. In order to improve the conditions in the places of imprisonment since the beginning of 2015, repairs have been carried out with budgetary resources, as well as with support mainly, in the interest of the truth, of external donors, the Norwegian Financial Mechanism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u172	Mrs. Minister, if you have any information in the back, you can fill it in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u173	This is important. Secondly, extremely important, I would like to focus on the insufficient number of supervisory and security personnel. On average, for Europe, one guard falls to about 3.38 prisoners, in Bulgaria this percentage is quite different. Last year, 459 states were made redundant. Apart from that, the work is unattractive and although less and insufficient as numbers, unfortunately, there are vacancies and rarely appear in the competitions. I'll end it here. You know that we have also proposed a Law amending and supplementing the law on detention and imprisonment, which provides for a number of steps. Let me have a chance in the back, 'cause I'm running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u174	Mr. Haytov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I realize that this is really a very serious issue. This is a separate discipline that is studied in law schools and really must be worked on, unfortunately, and invested. bTV is a serious media and not only because colleague Rosen Petrov worked there, but indeed this is a serious media and everything that has been released and stated in the reports of this media...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u176	With an argument to the contrary, he no longer works there, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u177	So I said, not just because he worked there. What was exported there, you do realize that it is becoming known to the whole world, and this is a stain on our country as a whole not only on the leadership of your ministry. My question is another way. We are about to examine here in this House the report on the cases in which Bulgaria is sentenced by the European Court of Human Rights and many of them are precisely because of the state of the places of imprisonment. I am very sensitive about this subject when spending public resources. As I have had the opportunity to speak with you, I have been chosen from one of the poorest areas in our country.............................................................................................. It is better to invest these funds there for infrastructure, for reconstruction of schools, for education and for everything the people need there. Due to poor administration, it is being spent public, public resources for something that with very little effort can be improved. Last but not least, what are the conditions under which the guards work? Excuse me, they are really heavy and you yourself said: there are also jobs available, but this is hard, unattractive work. With the opportunities given by the Republican budget, it is likely necessary to consider the salaries of these people to be increased, improved, have a little more time for recreation and at all their conditions to be made so that there are people working there and to be useful. The last thing I want to do is finish my line because I'm really looking forward to the answer that you're going to finish. I promise you that we will debate it in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The program of the current Bulgarian government provides nothing and speaks nothing about improving the state of the prisons. This, in my opinion, is incomplete and I ask that you also pay attention to this program. You are a political person, and the government's programme is a major political document that you are obliged to observe. When there is nothing to say on this subject, it is actually as if the problem is gone, and the sentences from Europe are piling up day by day and we all pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u178	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the dot, to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u179	Dear Mr. Haytov! You are absolutely right that it is better to invest these funds in anything else than in paying fines, I would add to the correction of prisons is better than to pay these penalties every year because of the bad material conditions in prisons. Of course, it is better to invest in kindergartens, roads or health care. It is not a coincidence that this is indeed an extremely unfunded activity, it is unpopular. It is very popular to put the funds into everything else, but not in improving the conditions, but we must be absolutely aware, and you are absolutely right that it is money that is not much, and at the same time not giving them a hit on the country's reputation, first of all, and on the fact that every year we really pay and we are obliged to pay the fines that the European Court of Human Rights imposes on us. That's why the Ministry has a plan. I hope funds will be provided. You're right about something else. You are right that in the first place, the conditions under which prisoners suffer are also the conditions under which the guards work. This is their place of work. The low wages, the poor working conditions, the overtime they have to do, due to the fact that they are not enough, certainly makes the work even less attractive. When two and a half years ago the previous government increased salaries in the Ministry of Interior without providing funding, in fact this government provided them, then the salaries of the guards, which are also under the Ministry of Interior Act, were not increased, they were also militaryised. Last year the end was secured an increase of 5%, which, however, again, did not catch up on their remuneration. First of all, we believe that, yes, in order to increase the attractiveness of this work, it is good to consider an increase in their remuneration so as to reduce at least their overtime and find reserves. I've assigned an analysis of the structure of the entire department with the idea, if we can reduce administrative staff at the expense of the guards' security activities. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Currently, there are 7311 people who are suffering punishment. In other words, it reduces their number, but, following the decision Neshkov v. Bulgaria....... for 4 sq............................................................................... We reveal and soon we will open a new dorm in Fat, which will also require a security staff. I agree with everything you say. It's not true that the government doesn't have a plan. There is a plan, but I also hope that it will receive funding, because this reform is not with much money, but funds are still needed to make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. The subject turned out to be a question. Perhaps you will continue in the Committee on Legal Affairs. The next question to you is from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov on the Honorary Magistrate Award under the patronage of the Minister of Justice. Here you are, Mr. Stanilov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies ministers, honourable colleagues! On the day of the Bulgarian Constitution 16 April, which is also a professional festival of lawyers, you, Madam Minister, announced that the Ministry of Justice has established a prize. This was done in a solemn setting in the building of the Constitutional Assembly of Veliko Tarnovo. The award must be awarded on 13 July at the celebration of the anniversary of the adoption of the last Constitution in 1991. When I learned about the award, my initial reaction as a Bulgarian citizen was that it was a bad joke. The Honorable Magistrate should be a tautology, not a reward. The normal expectation is that only honest professionals are appointed judges, prosecutors and investigators and this is the foundation pillar of modern society. Integrity is a fundamental moral requirement for every magistrate, apart from the moral legal requirement. According to the Law on the Judiciary, the Code of Ethics of the Bulgarian Magistrates is a mandatory norm for all, and the latter quite detail describes the scope of the concepts........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They are raised to the rank of basic principles which impose the relevant rules of ethical conduct. The special procedure for the search for an honorable magistrate by nominating and evaluating means that integrity in the magistrate's guild is clearly seen as an exotic exception that deserves to be honored. You confirm it with your explanation: "Let's give the Bulgarian magistrates self-confidence and understand that not all are masks, as someone likes to call us lately. Personally, Madam Minister, I never thought magistrates were masqueraders. If honest ones are distinguished, isn't that an admission that the majority in the system are dishonest? A page of your ministry has informed that five honest magistrates have been hunted. Clearly, the idea of this insulting reward was born in the head of some inspired official or PR specialist, but the responsibility remains yours. In this regard, my question is: will you take and what measures will you take to end this ridicule with the idea of justice and justice?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u182	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. I seem to have shared your motives because I mispronounced an honorary magistrate. I thought it was more than usual. It's really for a respectable magistrate. Madam Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Professor. Stanilov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You are absolutely right that on 16 April this year, as an idea of the team of the Ministry, the establishment of such a award was announced, which was planned to be awarded this year on 13 July, when 25 years were celebrated since the promulgation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria since 1991. The idea was the award of honorary magistrates not to have a financial expression and the awarded magistrates will simply receive a diploma plaque from the Ministry of Justice. The team of the Ministry proposed the creation of this award in order to provoke a civil debate on the topic. Two days ago, the Bulgarian Institute for Legal Initiatives presented its representative study among over 600 magistrates, judges and prosecutors for the attitude of magistrates for judicial reform. It is clear from the representative consultation that more than two thirds of prosecutors and more than half of the judges disagree with the thesis that people of the best professional and moral qualities are growing up in the hierarchy of the judiciary. 64.9% of judges and 40.4% of prosecutors define low trust as a major problem in the judiciary. Nearly a third of the magistrates point out that they lack motivation due to these facts. Although the research is only coming out now, in the Ministry we have long been familiar with this trend, the low self-esteem of the judiciary in terms of morality, ethics and integrity. Therefore, the criteria for distinction were formed in order to identify magistrates who are respectable and worthy and contribute with their specific actions, that is in the criteria, actions for developing and validating the constitutional rights of citizens, defending human rights, upholding the rule of law, their acts are justified and tailored to the acquis of legal science in the area concerned. Nominations for the award were adopted from 18 April to 5 July 2016, submitted by Bulgarian judges, prosecutors, investigators, judicial officers, lawyers, lawyers, law students and journalists. Within this period, there were indeed only five proposals that were voted on by a total of 7 people. The role of the committee, composed of 7 highly respected members, was to examine the proposals received and to designate a winner who has collected the most votes. In other words, the committee is not a jury, but a defender of the rules of the competition to verify the vote and its results. This is why the Ministry of Justice invited prominent and undisputed authorities to the Commission - Judge at the Court of Justice of the European Union Mr. Alexander Arabadzhiev; the Constitutional Judge Rumen Nenkov; the Chairman of the Supreme Council of Law Ralitsa Negentsova; the Dean of the Faculty of Law. Sasho Penov; the judge of the Sofia City Court Atanas Atanasov; the President of the Association of Prosecutors Evgeni Ivanov and the journalist from the Bulgarian National Radio Silvia Velieva. I admit that I was surprised by the lack of activity by the justice community, by journalists who know and actively reflect the processes and changes in this sector. I realize that perhaps the moment we announced this initiative was right and the moment when there were extremely many debates, stress, tensions in the judiciary, large-scale judicial reform was being discussed, and changes were being adopted and implemented in the Constitution concerning the judiciary, [[the President signals that time has run out]] It was just the moment to reshape the High Council and so on and so forth. At the same time, I realized that the lack of confidence in the judiciary because of the actions of few of its representatives to motivate honest and honorable judges, prosecutors and investigators and it was time for debate on this topic. In Bulgaria to look for the positive and to think positive today is clearly accepted as an exception to normal, shows it the attitude towards this distinction.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u184	The weather, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u185	There must be critics for every idea, and we didn't want to use it for PR. I assure you, we did not promote it for a reason during this period. Maybe that's the reason for the low activity. In this weak activity, together with the Commission, we have decided that the competition will be terminated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u186	Thank you. After that, you will have a duplicate and you will be able to further develop the thesis. Mr. Stanilov, come in for a line, I see you have one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u187	You're right to call this contest off. The criteria you have listed, Madam Minister, do not apply to the Honourable Magistrate Award, but to the Honorary Magistrate. This magistrate, who best performed for example for 5 years at 10 years, may eventually be nominated with one such title to carry for the rest of his life if, of course, he does not commit a further infringement. It may have, may not have a monetary expression, but it would be logical in this situation, as you have listed these criteria, refer to such a framework and do not refer to a respectable one, because the integrity, semantics of the concept of honor is blocked, is confrontational, becomes a binary opposition to the notion of dishonest. So everyone's disrespectful, let's get five people out and get decent. That doesn't make any sense and it's funny. So you have done the right thing by ending the competition, and I ask you to turn over the other page to announce, for example, you can do it in another way, but those magistrates who really, as they choose the supreme judges in America, to the ninth knee they seek under the bull calf, so to make it so that by saying: "This one is the winner of the title of the Honorable Magistrate to know it all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u188	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Madam Minister, you can finish. By procedure, you have the opportunity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u189	Yes, there was a debate on the name of the prize and the fact is that in the Code of Ethics, as you rightly mentioned, is required and this is even a basis for disciplinary punishment, means that in fact this moral ethical concept is one of the most important requirements for magistrates. Unfortunately, I seriously doubt that even if it were an honorary one, there would be greater activity, precisely because of the strong confrontation at this time towards society. I think right now is really the time for positive examples in the system. Thanks for the idea. We can think about what to do, eventually, announcing some next prize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u190	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That was the last question for you. Have a good job. We move on to the following issues, which are addressed to Ms. Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism. Mr. Stanilov is very active today. His question is again regarding the visit of Bulgarian graduates to the Republic of Turkey. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u191	This is what happens, Mr. Chairman, today I have the peak of activity with three questions. The reason for this is the mechanism of parliamentary control, which allows for a long time to hold questions, to stand still. My question is asked on 11 May 2016. Two months have passed, it has lost a certain degree of actuality, but I have decided not to give up this question, because it will also occur next spring. Dear Minister, many Bulgarian tour operators work more for the interests of the Turkish state than for the Bulgarian and the security of its citizens. We are witnessing another active campaign that represents Turkey as a good place to rest. My constituents have informed me that when directly asked questions about Turkey's internal problems, they receive an answer that none exist and Turkey is a safe country. Such allegations contradict the information that arrives each week for military action in the southeastern part of the country, attacks and other places in major cities. Victims of the attacks become not only representatives of Turkish power structures, but also civilians, foreign tourists. I've listed these incidents here, but I'm not gonna dwell on them. I'll get to the point. Similar calls were made by the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry on January 12, April 1st and April 27th. In view of the above, we cannot accept the claim of the Bulgarian tour operators other than as misleading. Special concern is then the upcoming proms, which some Bulgarian children plan to hold in Turkish resorts. It is common practice for Bulgarian tour operators to create difficulties for their customers who want to cancel their trips to Turkey, with big penalties in the contracts. This is why many Bulgarian graduates can not give up Turkey's visit, which was agreed in the autumn of last year. The profit of tour operators against the health and security of Bulgarian children is placed on scales. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what measures will you take to force Bulgarian tour operators to objectively represent Turkey as a country that cannot guarantee the security of its visitors? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u192	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Mrs. Angelkova, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Stanilov! The Ministry of Tourism is an institution fully committed to the conduct of state policy in the field of tourism and for us it is an exceptional priority to improve the quality of the proposed tourism product, including taking measures to prevent unfair trade practice exercised by tour operators and travel agents on the territory of the country. Article 68d, para. 1 of the Consumer Protection Act provides a clear definition of what is an unfair commercial practice, namely: "Trade practice by a trader to a consumer is unfair if it is contrary to the requirement of good faith and professional competence and if it changes or is possible to substantially alter the economic behaviour of the average consumer, whom it affects or to whom it is directed, or to the average member of the consumer group, where the commercial practice is directed to a particular group of users. Like the practice referred to in the parliamentary question, the practice can also be considered as misleading, such as art. 68d, para. 1 of the Consumer Protection Act defines as misleading commercial practice which contains false information and is therefore misleading or where in any way, including through its overall provision, it misleads or is able to mislead the average consumer, even if the information presented is factually accurate from any of the circumstances referred to in art. 68d, para. 2 of the PPP and it has the effect or it is possible to have the effect of making a commercial decision which it would not have taken without the use of this practice. The suspension of such a practice shall be the Commission for Consumer Protection. Part of the Commission's activities for consumer protection are aimed at ensuring consumer protection against unfair commercial practices in cases where, through its conduct, including advertising and marketing, the trader offers consumers goods and services in a way that is contrary to the requirement of good faith and professional competence, changes or is likely to substantially alter their economic behaviour. The Commission's actions for consumer protection in connection with the implementation of Section "Untrue Commercial Practices' of the Consumer Protection Act shall be taken on the basis of received complaints and user signals, findings of checks or cross-checks based on available information from action taken. In this sense, if specific signals are provided by you, the Ministry of Tourism is ready to assist the Commission for Consumer Protection in taking measures to prevent such practices and sanction offenders within the framework of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u194	Thank you and I, Madam Secretary. Mr. Stanilov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u195	Dear Minister, in the rights and obligations of both administrative and moral, the MP does not enter to send signals to the Ministry of Tourism and to any ministry for irregularities in the ministry's work. These signals come from our voters, who, in one way or another, signal us to intervene to improve the administration's work, to control it, to control the executive power entirely. I think the Ministry of Tourism's obligation is to ensure the safety of Bulgarian tourists abroad and to control the tour operators how they do their job. It is no secret to anyone that in the activities of these tour operators, especially those who send on excursions abroad, countless are examples, do not fulfill their duties, do not perform contracts, constantly crashes in the system and for this reason you do not know what control body you have, Inspectorate do you have, because I have not studied. I can look into that and draw examples. It is not a matter for me to call you here in the National Assembly to answer a parliamentary question, but to regularly carry out checks and to place everyone who is trespassing in their place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u196	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u197	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Professor Stanilov, I can assure you that the Ministry of Tourism fully respects the legislation and exercises its control powers on both tour operators and tour operators and on all persons under the law control. Specific signals we can assist to be checked by the control body, so the Consumer Protection Commission, when it concerns consumers, is controlled by the Commission for the protection of consumers in a large part of the infringements related to the tour operator and tour agent activities, under specific alerts when the Ministry of Tourism is contacted by the user concerned or self-serving through publications, respectively, which justify the infringement, exercises the relevant control. I can assure you that this is done in the Ministry regularly and strictly respect the work of both tour operators and tour operators in order to ensure both the safety of tourists and a high quality tourist product. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u198	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova is from the National Representative Krassimir Hristov Yankov on tourism development policy and actions of the Ministry of Interior for the prevention of tourists on the Black Sea coast. Here you are, Mr. Iankov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u199	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! My question is about tourism policy and the actions of the Ministry of Interior. Based on the incident on 8 June 2016 in the resort complex of Sunny Beach, the Ministry of Interior launched a complex specialized campaign for the prevention of tourists visiting the major resort complexes of the Bulgarian Black Sea coast. In this regard, my specific question to you is: are the actions of the Ministry of Interior adequate to tourism policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u200	Thank you, Mr. Iankov. Mrs. Angelkova, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u201	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, ensuring the security of tourists visiting a destination is a top priority, even more in view of the overall international situation. In this sense, it is important for us the presence of employees and the Ministry of Interior in the resorts. Their presence undoubtedly enhances the sense of security and peace in tourists. The implemented actions by the Ministry of Interior are located in two main directions: ensuring the security and safety of tourists during their stay in Bulgaria, including by respecting the criminal contingent and preventing crimes causing damage to the state budget. In this connection, eight checkpoints are operating at the entrance-exit arteries in the resort of Sunny Beach. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior shall carry out constant control based on prepared risk profiles. I stress this in order to dispel speculative suggestions that every single car is being examined thoroughly and thus hindering the movement of tourists. These allegations do not correspond to the truth. Specialized police operations have been carried out on the territory of the Ministry of Interior since the beginning of the season and the teams include employees of the NRA, DAI, KPB, RIOKOZ, Customs, Fire Safety and others. A coordination centre with the participation of employees of the regional directorate and the NRA was established in the Ministry of Interior, where they are planned, provided and carried out inspections throughout the entire Southern Black Sea coast for fiscal control. Thanks to the cited actions of the Interior Ministry and the control bodies with which we work in perfect coordination, there is a substantial increase in revenues in the state budget. There are no registered complaints received by tourists, facilitating the process of communication with the authorities is an emphasis in our joint efforts. In this regard, I inform you that, in order to facilitate the procedure for registering foreign tourists, alerts on crimes committed in the Black Sea regional governments have been put in place type forms for the submission of criminal reports. The blanks are translated into three of the official languages of the European community "German, French and English," as well as in Russian. In this way, the activity of accepting alerts on crimes committed is facilitated. A number of preventive security and operational search activities are implemented as part of them related to information security of foreign tourists, including through the appointment of translators, unobtrusive and rapid access of representatives of consular services and foreign nationals and facilitates the procedure for payment of a fee by foreign tourists, compliance with professional standards of ethical conduct in dealing with foreign citizens, compliance with the gender of foreign nationals in the application of police powers under the Ministry of Interior Act. A total of 732 police officers from other Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior are provided for support of the activity of ODMVR Burgas, Varna and Dobrich. Of these, 556 are posted to the resort complexes and the settlements of Burgas region. On the territory of the Police Department, from 16 June 2016 additional 25 employees of the Gendarmerie were posted to protect public order and to counter crime. In this way, it will be easier for the employees from other regional departments of the Ministry of Interior to be posted to the resort. The formation of the joint teams between the NRA, the employees of the Economic and Security Police, who since 17 June assist those working on the territory of the Nesebar Police Department, teams for the verification of entertainment and drinking facilities. About 20 NRA employees from inside the country are also scheduled to join the teams. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u202	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Yankov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister! My specific question is, do you take adequate measures by the Ministry of Interior according to the Ministry's policy? From your answer, I understand that you accept what is done by the law enforcement authorities, the joint shares that are primarily targeted at the outlets. Do you have an example in another country that the treatment of the tourism industry is structured in the same way? I expected in your reply to hear that the care for the tourist, his safety, his peace of mind is related to the work of the services and the Ministry of Interior with tour operators, touropers, hoteliers, the profile of this tourist, his threat. The Ministry of Interior is currently doing checks at the entrance of the resort complex is exerting in the active part of the season pressure on those engaged in commercial activity and for you this is normal. Do you have a dialogue with the industry? Because I am a MP from the Varna region and I have a dialogue with the industry, they are not very happy that you are not defending them. This will affect requests for holidays in the summer seasons for the coming years, and you are probably aware, but the defence measures taken by the Ministry of Interior, post-factum. A resort complex is being shot, a reconstruction is being made with an outspoken arrest. Do you accept that?! Did you know that hoteliers explain to their guests that this is a film involving actors in uniform to give some explanation, otherwise how they will pass on to their relatives what is happening in Bulgaria? Can this happen in a Greek resort?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I do not understand your attitude and that you are not taking a position behind the industry to ensure the peace and safety of tourists without pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u204	Thank you, Mr. Iankov. Mrs. Angelkova, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u205	Mr. Chairman, Members of the House, Mr. Iankov! As I started, ensuring the safety and security of tourists in Bulgaria is an essential priority for both the government and in particular the Ministry of Tourism. The coordination we have with all the ministries, mainly with the Ministry of Interior on this topic, we are starting and leading it continuously, but especially for the summer season from April month, and it is attended by absolutely all representatives of the industry. They are held regular meetings so that there are coordinated actions. They all welcome measures related to ensuring the safety and security of tourists, because this is essential for choosing a destination.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u206	Greeting?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u207	At the moment, within the month of January, we have a growth of 14% of tourists only for...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u208	You promised 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u209	I didn't promise any percentages. Only for the district of Dobrich we have 34% growth in the first five months, for Burgas. 18% growth in the first five months of 2016; for Varna " 23% growth in the first five months of 2016. All bookings and reservations so far show expected growth in all our leading target markets.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u210	Is this because of the Homeland Security measures?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u211	This is because of the measures taken by the Ministry of Tourism to promote the destination. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] For my part, I explained that measures relating to the security and safety of tourists are essential for the choice of destination. I explained that since April we have been in coordination with absolutely all ministries. Meetings are regularly held for the preparation of the season in which the whole industry participates and shares all its views and suggestions on the topic. Thank you for your attention. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u212	Thank you. I heard that Mr. Iankov said: "I welcome you! " So we can free you from parliamentary control. That was all for you. Let's move on to the questions asked to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova. The first question is from the MP Martin Dimitrov about the slower employment growth in the first quarter of 2016. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u213	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! We have a new Minister for Labour and Social Policy, which is an occasion to ask key questions about the new policy that will be implemented in this area. My particular concern in this case is related to the slower growth in employment in the first quarter of 2016. In the period January 2016 the number of employees increased by 25.3 thousand people, which is the lowest increase after the recovery of the labour market since the beginning of 2014. It is early to say whether this is a trend or depends on conjunctural circumstances. More than half of the unemployed currently are long-term unemployed. That's disturbing. In parallel, the drop in youth unemployment is not due to an increase in employment but to a decrease in their economic activity. This can now be shaped as a disturbing trend. For the second consecutive quarter, the only region for which employment is decreasing is the Northwest In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is: what measures will you take to promote employment, in particular what actions are you considering to support youth employment and the Northwestern region? I am asking you this question in a slightly more general way to inform ourselves, having a new minister, what a change, what a new policy we expect, respectively, what results due to this new policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u214	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. You're welcome to answer the question, Mrs. Rusinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u215	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Dimitrov, colleague Lukarski! For the first time in Bulgaria this year, according to the data of the.Society, the unemployment rate is 7.1 points on average for Europe 8.7% and for the first time in 11 years we have a much more real drop in unemployment in Bulgaria. According to the employment agency's data from the beginning of the year, for the first time we have a decrease in the number of registered by about 45 000 people, i.e., for many years we have had positive trends in the labour market related to higher economic activity and employment growth. With regard to youth employment and the fight against youth unemployment, this is one of the main priorities in my work, related not only to the more targeted investment of funds from the national budget and from the Operational Programme A few details I'd like to point out. Since the beginning of the year, only young people have been provided with 15 000 young people to 29 years of age and in unsubsidized jobs, i.e. in the real economy. For this year we have foreseen funds of 23.7 million. lv. for employment of almost 6,000 persons up to 29 years of age and training of over 2300. Already about 3,000 young people since the beginning of the year have started working as a result of the measures, with 8% of them from the Northwestern region. Under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" more than 19 000 young people have started working on the various measures and projects. Ten percent of unemployed young people are also in Northwestern Bulgaria. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. BGN, which will provide support to nearly 40,000 young people. It is important to highlight the complex and integrated approach to every inactive youth, the individual work of psychologists, Case Managers, of specific mediators who, especially with the Roma community, aim to activate young people. Only for Northwestern Bulgaria we have allocated 15 Roma mediators to work for the activation of young people. Last but not least with amendments to the Employment Promotion Act through the Employment Promotion Council as the first consultative body before submission by the Council of Ministers [[the President signals that time has run out]] , we propose the regionalisation of the programmes and the strong participation of local employers and local authorities in the formation of employment policies.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Rusinova. Mr. Dimitrov, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u217	Madam Minister, in addition to the unemployment rate indicator, it is important to look at the jobs created over a given period of time, because if the indicator, according to This is the case at the beginning of 2016, i.e. official unemployment is falling as a percentage, but in the first quarter the newly created jobs are less than previous quarters since the beginning of 2014. I said it was early to talk about trend, but what I was worried about was that my expectation was that the newly created jobs would increase, including this year, and although for a quarter of data that showed less growth than the average growth compared to all months after 2014 is something to be paid attention to. Otherwise, 209 million. lv. are dedicated to supporting nearly 40,000 young people for 2016, is good news, if we are talking about sustainable employment and not temporary employment. So I hope that your efforts will be directed towards those people being permanently detained in the labour market and not to provide them with temporary subsidised employment. By the end of the year, I will allow myself to ask you again a question to see if this result and this effort has become a sustainable result. Otherwise, regarding the idea of the regionalisation of the programmes and the strong participation of the local authorities, I think that this is the right way, but again, it is probably right by the end of the year to follow in specific numbers the results achieved. If no alternatives are provided for these young people, including the Northwestern region, there is a risk that they will prefer to work elsewhere rather than stay in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u218	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Madam Minister, will you take advantage of the right to the coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one point that for 2016, we have an average annual growth of 20,000 annually in terms of employees aged between 15 and 64. The employment rate for the first quarter of 2016 is 62.3% - 1.3 points higher than last year, so besides reduced unemployment, we also have an increase in employment. With regard to investments both from the national budget and from European funds, they do not lead to subsidised employment, but to increasing people's knowledge, skills and suitability to work, as the Minister of Labour and Social Policy does not create new jobs. Our job is to help the economically active population more quickly and better find work. Jobs are created by the living economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Rusinova. The next question to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Rusinova is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on actions and measures to enable people who worked under a labour contract, but they study in an incomplete or other form of training outside the regular, after their release from work to receive unemployment benefits. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Mr. Minister! Madam Minister, my question is prompted by the fact that many citizens who have worked on employment relations have approached me, but cannot receive unemployment benefits after they have been released from work because they are studying in a form of training. When they are registered with the Bureau of Labour, they fill out a form....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On page two, it is detailed how much training they are currently in. Taking into account that this is an additional plus in their knowledge and skills, they faithfully fill in facts about their training, but it turns out that they are thus included in the register as students or learners rather than unemployed. This automatically deprives them of the possibility of receiving unemployment benefits under the Social Security Code, although they have worked and paid all the insurance, including for the Unemployment Fund. This is because of the latest guidance in the employment agency system, which is based on an extended interpretation, which gives the International Labour Organisation for cases where a person is learning or unemployed. However, according to the provisions of the Social Security Code, only unemployed persons are registered as such and are entitled to benefits. The right to unemployment benefit shall be granted by the persons for whom the contributions are due to be paid to the Unemployment Fund, at least nine months in the last 15 months prior to their termination, and shall be registered as unemployed. The person who is currently learning, regardless of his performance, that he has been employed on a full or part-time basis, at the moment when he is studying part-time, remotely or in another form of training outside the regular, after an exemption shall not be able to receive his unemployment benefit provided for in art. 54a, para. 1 of the Social Security Code because the provision explicitly states that it must be unemployed. In this regard, Madam Minister: what measures will you take in order to be able to receive unemployment benefits for people studying in background and other forms of training outside the regular one after being dismissed from work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u222	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u223	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House and only gentlemen! Mr. Gokov, after entering the Ministry as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, I also received information from the labor bureaus regarding this problem. The measures have already been taken. I have initiated a change in the Employment Promotion Act, because in 2015, with a change in the legal definition of "unemployed', subsequently with changes in the Social Security Code, the rights of students regarding their monetary compensation are limited in part. Of course, here we take the approach adopted in the Social Security Code based on Convention No 44 of the International Labour Organisation. It is written in the Convention that the Convention applies to all persons employed for a salary or other remuneration. I believe that by clarifying the legal basis in the Employment Promotion Act, we will be able to overcome this problem. The proposals were discussed and supported by the National Employment Promotion Council at a meeting on 5 July and will be submitted next week to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u224	Thank you, too. Mr. Gokov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u225	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Madam Minister, thank you. A little reluctantly I asked the question because I know about the actions you have taken on this issue. It has become obsolete, but nevertheless I would like to thank you on behalf of everyone concerned for taking such urgent and rapid measures. I'm just gonna ask you to clarify something. This, once it has become a fact, let these people, who, in this period, from the instructions in the Employment Agency until the new instructions come into force, also not remain affected because they are currently affected and are not receiving such compensation. It won't be fair to them if we leave them in the present situation. I do not know how much it is possible to reverse this, but we need to find a solution to this issue, as people really expect justice with them, and you know that it is not normal for people to work, to pay their social security and to deprive them of compensation afterwards. I'm going to ask you to settle this, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u226	A hole, Madam Secretary? You won't use it. Thank you for participating in this parliamentary control. We are moving on to the answers of Minister Lukarski, Minister of Economy. There are two questions for him. The first question is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the management of the Airport Stara Zagora. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u227	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister, Madame Minister, Gentlemen of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, Stara Zagora Airport is a wholly state owned company with 100% state participation. Exercising the rights of the state as sole owner of capital is you, Mr. Minister. In January 2015, shortly after you became Minister of Economy, you made a change to the Board of Directors by releasing those appointed by order of the previous President of the Council and one of the members and their place you appoint the Regional Coordinator of the Movement..Bulgaria of Citizens.............................................................................. Only the Executive Director Mitko Georgiev remains. In February 2016, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 February 2016 to 25 February 2016. A new shift, while increasing the number of this Council from three to five people. Dimitar Chorbadzhiev has been released and three people have been appointed to the former jurist of Stara Zagora Municipality, Boyan Atanasov Hitrov, former employee of the Ministry of Economy, and Georgi Vassilev Georgiev, the municipal leader of the SDS in Dupnitsa, all members of the party whose national leader you are, Mr. Minister. But it's not just that you're assigning your party people to a government feeder, it's about why you need a board of directors of five, three employees of the state? Because from the time of the state of Stara Zagora airport there are three more people, and the Airport Stara Zagora is not even licensed to conduct flights and has ceased this activity. Since then, its only income has been from selling airline tickets, from rented plots to store equipment for agricultural exhibitions. Mr. Minister, some of these logical questions follow: First of all, is this your policy regarding the management of state-owned companies from the Ministry of Economy system to use them for party appointments? Secondly, what is your motive to increase the numerical composition of the Board of Directors of the company, except, of course, finding work for a larger number of fellow parties? Thirdly, what logic do you follow when increasing the Board of Directors of a single company with 100% state participation of five people, provided that there are three state employees, and what does the state gain from all of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u228	For an answer, Minister Lukarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u229	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gokov, thank you for your concern for the development of the Stara Zagora Airport and for the interest you have, putting a second parliamentary issue on this subject. You are absolutely right that in 2007 the licence for expeditionary fitness of Stara Zagora Airport was revoked and the company could not operate as an airport. In 2012 at Stara Zagora Airport EAD was the principal minister of transport, as the main asset of the company, and as a facility, is the runway for take-off and landing. At the same time, the properties were at the disposal of the Ministry of Defense, and with a lack of necessity. It is undeniable that the population of these assets has potential for development and for attracting investments to ensure economic growth and socio-economic development of the region and the country. In 2012, the commercial company and the properties were transferred to the former Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism, the concept being to build a freight airport, a cargo terminal to serve Southeast Europe. The concept was also linked to the demand for an investor to invest in the construction of the cargo terminal. The project analyses have indicated that the terrains are not enough for the construction of cargo terminal, while the adjacent terrains are private, with numerous co-owners. In recent years the project has been promoted to all investment forums in Bulgaria and abroad as an airport, but there is no interest in its development. In view of this and in view of the good location of the properties, the current efforts of the Ministry of Economy are aimed at the possibility of building an industrial-economic zone, similar to the economic zone of Sofia, where investors can be attracted to support the socio-economic development of the region. The idea of the Ministry is also related to the preservation and expansion of the current activity of the Airport Stara Zagora. Based on these facts, I inform you that the change in the composition of the Board of Directors is not the key change of the Executive Director, which has been since the time of the Oresharski government. The membership of the Board of Directors of up to five people is not provoked by political or other objectives, but is related only to the potential for future development of the project. It is normal, when it comes to conceptual development, that it depends on the deployment of the management body and not on the deployment of staff numbers, respectively the state of the company. In this context, I inform you that members of the Board of Directors have experience in attracting investment, management, finance and financial control. The quality of the management of the company is confirmed by the better financial results for 2015 compared to last 2014. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u230	The line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u231	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, first of all, my concern for Stara Zagora Airport comes from the fact that the question of Stara Zagora is of great public interest to the citizens of Stara Zagora, a solution is expected for the realization of a serious investment project. All Stara Zagora hope that this will give a new economic image to Stara Zagora and the region and provide hundreds of jobs. This is about my concern for the airport. For him, if I have to, I'll ask not two questions, but 10 questions, until we sort these things out. Now I'm going to give you an explanation. The director of Stara Zagora Airport has not been appointed during the Oresharski government, but since I remember in Stara Zagora, probably 15 years, this man has been there. It's about everyone else. Can you imagine what a trading company looks like in the eyes of the people of Stara Zagora and the whole country, because this is public, which you claim is almost the peak of economic achievement and the previous question you answer is that there is a profit of 25 thousand. BGN, I stress, and you appoint him a board of directors of five in a state of three?! Whatever we're talking about here and you're explaining to me what investments it's going to attract, Minister, did you know that some of these people haven't even set foot in Stara Zagora, not to mention the airport?! I am concerned not only about Stara Zagora airport, but at all about the management policy of state companies. It is funny to explain that the management of a trading company may be greater than the number of the company's actual composition. I don't know if it's in another country, I'd accept it with us, because people must have thought it was the way it should be and it's better, but I don't see any other companies like that, and I don't know how far we're gonna get if we keep running the state companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u232	A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u233	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gokov, you really may not have paid much attention to my answer. Indeed, the development of the airport is now aimed at the industrial zone and there is interest from foreign investors, including Chinese. It is logical that they will not meet the people who sell tickets, the cleaners and the sweepers, but will meet with the management of the company, which needs to be in a heavier group. Regarding party appointments, you contradict each other because you say yourself that since you remember, this CEO has been there, that is, a party shift hasn't been there and he continues to work as an expert. I apologize for the mistake associated with the Oresharski government. It is related to Mr. Hitrov, a member of the Board of Directors, who worked as Secretary General of the Bulgarian Investment Agency, held senior positions in local and central authorities and as Secretary General of the Bulgarian Investment Agency was appointed precisely during the period of Oresharski. I think that's how I'm responsible for your party assignments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u234	There is a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev on the policy of attracting foreign direct investment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u235	Dear Madam President Tsacheva, dear colleague Lukarski! According to the latest data from the Bulgarian National Bank on 17 June this year, foreign direct investments for the first four months of the year amounted to 429 million. $100,000. EUR or 351 million. $100,000. EUR less than the same period of 2015, when they amounted to 782 million for the whole year. 200,000 for the first four months. We are talking about a dramatic drop of over 50% in one of the key factors for economic growth, improving competitiveness and increasing the country's export potential. In this regard, my fellow Member, several interrelated issues arise. Firstly, what are the reasons for this significant decline in foreign direct investment in Bulgaria, given that the level of direct foreign investment in Europe and the world economy has a tendency of gradual recovery? Secondly, how do you assess the effectiveness of the strategy of your trusted Ministry for attracting more foreign investment, especially given the contraction of investment by the European Union and the depressed state of domestic investment? Thirdly, how does the structure of direct foreign investments in 2016 correspond to the government's intentions to improve the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy, given that during the period considered they are less than 1% of gross domestic product? Last but not least, what concrete measures will you take to reverse negative trends in foreign investment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u236	For an answer, the Minister of Economy Mr. Lukarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u237	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member Gechev! The Bulgarian National Bank draws up and reports foreign direct investments in the country according to a single methodology published on the Bank's website. At present, preliminary data on the amount of direct investment in the country for the period January 2016 is published, which amounts to 429,1 million. Euros. According to the methodology, annual data shall be revised 15 months after the end of the reporting period, with significant changes in realised values observed. For example, the preliminary data on foreign direct investment in the country for January 2015 initially amounted to 523.5 million. EUR, after which up to 782,2 million were realised. EUR, which shows an increase of nearly 50 percent. In this respect, the comparison of the definitive data would be correct. Compared to the preliminary data on foreign direct investment for January "April 2016" compared to the unrealised data for January "April 2015," there is an increase in the sub-stats "Dyalov Capital" of 61,8 million. EUR 165,6 million EUR and a reinvested profit of 53,7 million. EUR 139 million Euros. As regards the decline in debt investments, at the same time, from 408 million. EUR 124,5 million Euros. The actual dynamics of foreign direct investment can be traced when comparing the annual reporting values of the indicators. In 2015, foreign direct investments in the country amounted to 1,593 billion. Euros. This is the highest reporting amount of foreign direct investments since 2009, which corresponds to the trend of gradual recovery at the level of foreign direct investments in Europe and worldwide. According to EUROSTATE statistics, Bulgaria ranks first on foreign direct investment income as a share of gross domestic product for 2015 among all countries in the region of Central and Eastern Europe, with this share being 3.6% in Bulgaria, which precedes Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Serbia, as well as the Baltic Republics. According to spring macroeconomic forecast, 2016 of the Ministry of Finance expectations for 2016 - 2018 are foreign direct investments to be at levels of 3.7% of gross domestic product and in 2019 to reach 3.8%. In terms of investments, fixed capital growth in the period 2018 - 2019 is expected to be a real growth of 2,7 - 3,5%. With regard to the measures. Since the beginning of 2016 under the Investment Promotion Act, six certificates have been issued for class A and one for priority investment project. In total, the envisaged investments amount to 104,2 million. lv. and more than 2,000 new jobs are expected to be opened. Three of the projects are carried out in high-tech industries and services, with 12 certificates issued in 2015, for information: 9 for the class "A" and 2 for the class "B" and 1 for a priority investment project for the whole year. In total, the envisaged investments amount to 189,17 million. lv. and predict the creation of 1265 new jobs, that is, we will expect growth in the adjusted data. In 2015, changes were developed and adopted in the specialized investment promotion legislation for both the Law and its Implementing Rules, which alleviated the administrative requirements for investors in the application and issuance of investor certificates. Changes were also made aimed at clarity and predictability for investors in terms of the amount of aid, the time limits for implementing the measures; the requirements for providing the incentive measures representing State aid were also optimised. Another important instrument for increasing investment activity during the specific year is the construction and development of specialized industrial areas with built technical infrastructure located in close proximity to developed transport infrastructure and European transport corridors, as well as to large urban centres with available personnel resources. National company "Industrial Zones"....................................................................industrial zones................................................................................................................................................................................... For example, the area in Bozhurishte implements 15 projects certified under the Investment Promotion Act with a total investment amount of 100.6 million. BGN providing for the creation of 640 new jobs this year. In the first half of 2016, the approval of projects under the European Fund for Strategic Investments continued, with five Bulgarian projects in the field of energy, transport and industrial infrastructure being published until the start of the official portal for European projects on 1 June 2016. In line with the third pillar of the investment plan for Europe, Bulgaria is among the first Member States in the European Union to take independent action at national level to eliminate regulatory barriers to investment. By Decision No 411 of May 2016, the Council of Ministers adopted an Action Plan with measures addressing major problem areas preventing investment growth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u238	Two supplementary questions, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u239	Thank you. My fellow Member, first of all, the supplementary question is in terms of data. Excuse me, but the BNB is working with specific amounts that go into the accounts. This is why they are reported in BNB and if there is a difference, this is the difference between the National Statistical Institute and BNB. So the numbers that BNB has published and which I give to your attention and to the viewers who are watching us are specific amounts that have been received or not received. Therefore, there is no doubt about the accuracy. Do you doubt the accuracy of the data from the Bulgarian National Bank? One. My second question is about zones. Would you say whether the companies that settle, figuratively speaking, in these areas and develop certain productions of goods and services, do they correspond to any extent to the structural policy of the government? Is there such a policy by sector? So are we waiting to see what foreigners prefer to do and produce in these industrial zones, or do we have a policy to attract foreigners to develop certain productions in these areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u240	For an answer, Minister Lukarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague Gechev, I have no doubt about the data of the BNB, but I am paying attention to the preliminary data published last year, and the data that has been produced, which was said to be more than 50% compared to the preliminary data for the same period in 2015. So I would again advise that we wait for the revised data so that we can speak very specifically about what the numbers are. In terms of what companies, primarily foreign companies, I pay attention, encouraging investment in industrial zones, depends on industrial zones. Strategically, for example, for Bozhurishte, these are productions, mostly related to automotive and mechatronics. So it depends on the area, respectively there is a Strategy for the development of certain industries that are related to the specific area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u242	For the treatment of Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u243	Dear Madam President, dear colleague Lukarski! You do not doubt that I would like to have as many investments as possible and better develop the Bulgarian economy. But, my colleague, things are not going well because in neighbouring Serbia in 2015, according to final data, investments are already over 2 billion. Euros. By population, Serbia is comparable to Bulgaria, as you know, at the moment. Serbia is not a member of the European Union, it does not benefit from EU programmes, but attracts more investment than Bulgaria, which is worrying. Secondly, it is even more worrying if we compare ourselves to countries of the European Union. Colleague, you know exactly what investments are in Slovakia. They are four or five times higher than investments in Bulgaria, given that in Slovakia the population is 5 million. And 400,000. Souls. Therefore, in terms of foreign investment, we are even four or five times below the levels of pre-crisis 2008. Therefore, honourable Members, we expect the Ministry of Economic Development and the Government to take this issue more seriously and with collective efforts to change the trend, because we have problems with domestic investment, and also EU funds, as well as to develop things with Brexit, will decrease. We hardly have any differences on this issue. So the efforts of the Bulgarian institutions should be tripled in order to be able to compensate for the negative trends that were mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-08.u244	Thank you, Mr. Lukarski, for participating in this control. Honourable Members, the next regular plenary session is next Wednesday. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
