ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u1	Good afternoon! There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members of Parliament, according to the Program for the Work of the National Assembly adopted by us for this week, we should discuss as the first item for today: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RECEIVED AND ARGUED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importers are Valentin Radev and a group of MPs. There is a report from the Defence Committee that will introduce us to the President of the Commission Mr. Mihov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I propose to you the Defence Committee Report, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Tzipov, Lieutenant General Popov the Chief of Defence, and Mr. Stoyan Ivanov the Deputy Director of the Border Police Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u3	We are voting on the proposal for admission made in this House. They voted 141 MPs: 141, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u4	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-12, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 12 February 2016. At an extraordinary open session held on 16 February 2016, the Defence Committee discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-12, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 12 February 2016. The meeting was attended by 16 MPs from the Defence Committee. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Defence Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Chief of Defence Major General Plamen Atanasov and the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence Laura Kendova. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Valentin Radev. In his motives, he pointed out that the change is due to the fact that the country is under increased migratory pressure caused by serious changes in the military and foreign policy environment. In the near and medium term, the Ministry of Interior will need support from other state authorities. The Armed Forces are the only institution with powers and means to assist the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. The bill expands the activities that the Armed Forces will carry out in peace time, regulated in art. Art. 56 and art. 57th of the Law. It is proposed by an act of the Council of Ministers to determine their participation as well as the financial and resource provision of the activities. The official opinion of the Ministry of Defence on the draft law was presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Dimitar Kyumurdzhiev. In the discussion of the draft took part the MPs Milen Mihov, Velizar Enchev, Vladimir Toshev, Dimitar Dimitrov, Plamen Manushev, Krasimir Karakachanov, Miho Mihov, Neno Vlaikov and Valentin Radev. In their speeches the MPs agreed that the adoption of amendments to the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are timely and necessary, but they do not cover the whole complexity of the changes in the legal base. The armed forces do not have at this stage sufficient powers and means to carry out tasks and necessary training, which is specific and different from those carried out so far. They need an extension of abilities and a time limit to prepare the formations that will carry out these tasks. According to some of the MPs, there is a need for a change to other members of the Law to regulate the participation of the armed forces in security at the state border. Changes are also needed in the Ministry of Interior Act. Subsequently, there are necessary changes to the sub-regulation acts, the statutes of the armed forces, doctrines and plans for their development. The Commission finds that a technical error has been made in the name of the Law and proposes to finally add to the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Defence Committee with 16 (sixteen) votes for the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-12, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on February 12, 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u5	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. On behalf of the importers, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! We are all aware of the increased migratory pressure on the state borders for reasons beyond our control. The Ministry of Interior is doing what is necessary to protect borders and deal with this migratory pressure, but it needs assistance from other state authorities on the one hand. On the other hand, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the Bulgarian Army, have the opportunities, they have the means to help this process, but they need both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior from changes of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. And so far, these and other activities of the Ministry of Defence, and in particular the armed forces, have performed them in accordance with Articles 56 and 57. With this bill, we are actually proposing an extension of these activities to the armed forces in peacetime by proposing a brief text by which we say.................................and they can also take part in the security of the state border. With two more paragraphs, we propose that the Council of Ministers, by its act, entrust this new task to the armed forces in peace time by defining the financial and other resources necessary for its implementation. And the last paragraph necessary for the performance of these tasks: we say that the Minister of Defence is the authority that will lay down the rules for the use of force in the participation of the armed forces in security at the state border. Those are the lyrics. By consensus, in the activity of Friday, when we introduced the Bill, GERB and all political forces, without exception, supported this bill. I hope that the debates will be such as to support the bill today at our sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u7	The debate is open, honourable Members. Who are the Members of the National Assembly who wish to take part? Mr. Rosen Petrov is the first to come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u8	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! The Migrant crisis under which we are under pressure will not stop anytime soon. It will not stop even if the conflict in the Middle East ends, as economic reasons lie in its foundations. According to the United Nations, some 30 million are expected in the coming years. Souls to head for Europe. The main stream of them can also pass along the so-called Balkan route. I believe that the proposed amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act are necessary for two reasons. Firstly, the Ministry of Interior is currently unable to provide sufficient security at our national borders. You know when the Bulgarian Border Guard was born. The first law was passed in the days of Stefan Stambolov. It reads as follows: Two and a half kilometers of border along one horse and one foot guard. I think we're far from that ratio right now. That is why our group will support the proposed changes. We believe that the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria should take a more active part in the security of the state border. As a former member of the Dragoman Border Patrol, I would go even further and suggest to the Ministry of Defence in our armed forces that a brigade of Border Guards should be established, as border action is something too specific, too peculiar, and I do not think that ordinary military units could carry it out. In conclusion, I would say the following: a country without borders is territory, and a territory can easily be crushed. Let's not let that happen! Thank you. [[Applause from the BDZ.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u9	Any lines to Mr. Petrov? I won't. To make a statement there is Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u10	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! At the outset, to state that, as has been said by the importers, during the meeting of the Defence Committee, there was not a single voice against the Defence and Armed Forces Act, not a single voice abstained from the proposed amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act. This consensus is quite positive. On the other hand, I want to be specific. I would like to say in advance that I do not agree with the idea that was suggested during the Commission's meeting to pass these amendments today at second reading. This, in essence, if it happens, will mean a rush of very important repairs. The minimum period between first and second readings is necessary in order for the Defence Committee to meet a second time and to hear different opinions. My proposal is based specifically on the fact that, during the Commission meeting the other day, I stated that I had two proposals for amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act. Now, of course, at first reading, I hardly have to go into detail, as I do not have this procedural right, but it seems to me that, apart from these two articles that we have to accept, and we will accept, I am convinced, with full unanimity, other members of the Defence and Armed Forces Act need to change in order to achieve harmonisation between the new and the old. Also, during my speech in the Commission, I said that we are essentially deciding not to send voluntary troops to the workers at the border to guard the Bulgarian border in peace time, but to decide the most important issue that we do not dare to speak out loud, or if we have recorded it, is it not very clear that the army of the border should use armed force, or not to use, only passively monitor individual or collective illegal crossings at the border, or to enter into its function? We all remember the video footage from last summer from the Hungarian Serb and Macedonian Greek borders, when the armies of the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Hungary intervened to help local police guard the border, how they used tear gas, and in separate cases I am not talking about guns. I also have proposals that reflect the role of the Minister of Defence and the denigrating role of the Chief of Defence, or put in English: the Chief of Staff, as the second proposal, which is made by the importers, is para. 3, is that the Minister of Defence lays down the rules for the use of force in carrying out the tasks under para. 1. There I propose specifically to add something that already exists in the Defence and Armed Forces Act that this should be done on a proposal from the Chief of Defence. Moreover, in other members of the Defence and Armed Forces Act, in particular in art. Art. 28 and Art. 69, it is precisely indicated that the Chief of Staff, I use this more correct word, proposes and prepares the rules for the use of force. We cannot delegate rights to the Minister of Defence alone, to decide when and how to use armed force in guarding the Bulgarian border. It is especially important to know why we are sending the army to the border.......................... whether it should only respect the intruders with its presence or respect the intruders, I stress this in peaceful times with the use of armed force? This is what we are talking about, and, as I said just now, the army is not a volunteer labour force, which, before November 10th 1989, was only circling the streets and signaling the Ministry of Interior without having the right to use force. The army is about this to use force, otherwise why are we sending it to the border?! Finally, just to say what I have also done in the Defence Committee, if we are going to make such amendments, such changes to the Defence and Armed Forces Act, we must also consider changes to the Social Security Code, which is another argument in no way to put the issue of voting at second reading today. I mean, at the moment, for the faces of art. 69 of the Code of Social Security for the participation of missions outside the territory of the country with a high level of risk, there are two options for payment: one year of actual serviced time is considered to be three years at a high level of risk, such as, hopefully, not in the case, or if participation is at a low level of risk, one year of actual service at the border to be respected for two years of third-category insurance service. True, this is another law, but when we talk about the participation of the army in such responsible missions, we cannot put aside the social function, the social role, because the Bulgarian Armed Forces in the last twenty-six years were not only disarmed, but in social terms were placed perhaps on the lowest ladder of the social classificationist. These are my considerations, and I hope they will be accepted. Of course, the proposals are there. I can leave them now, although it is not the time for the President of Parliament. I have already offered them to both the Minister of Defence, through his parliamentary secretary and Mr. Radev and Mr. Mihov. We are talking about two concrete proposals to the two amendments made by importers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u11	At this time, you are making a procedure to shorten the deadline for proposals between first and second readings to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u12	One week, if General Mihov or Mr. Radev have no objections.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u13	Three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u14	Okay, three days. I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u15	Any lines to Mr. Enchev? Here's your first line, Mr. Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, when expressing your considerations and making suggestions, it is nice to consider that there are international conventions to which Bulgaria is a country.. how war is waged that affect the behavior of the army and the use of armed force. In a case where you have peaceful people against you, unarmed, refugees, even if they want to break your border, you can't use armed force and shoot at them. That's my remark and a line against you. They can be detained. There are appropriate rules and behaviour against people who are not armed and are not part of an army and an army.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u17	Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u18	Mr. Ismailov, at no time do I plead the use of armed force. I said we need to debate on this issue.... to use or not to use armed force. My specific proposal is that the Minister of Defense lays down the rules for the use of force. Appendix: supposed by the Chief of Defence. This is my specific proposal. Otherwise you are right, there must be a debate to use or not armed force. We must not bury our head in the sand and give up such a debate, because on the field, unfortunately, this case may arise in a real situation where we have to authorize the representatives of the Bulgarian army and give them authority on how to act in a particular situation, not silently observe with closed eyes. Once again, you remember the footage when the Macedonian-Greek and Serbian-Hungarian borders Hungarian and Macedonian armies applied a certain force, including the use of tear gas. These things have to be predicted. At no point have I pleaded for the use of force, but we must ask ourselves why do we use the armed forces when we do not give them the right to use force?! That's grounds for debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u19	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? I can't see. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with importers Valentin Radev and a group of MPs. Please vote. They voted 156 MPs: 156, with no objection and no abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously. In his speech Mr. Enchev procedurally proposed to shorten the time for proposals between the first and second reading of the same Bill of three days. Is there a reverse offer? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr. Enchev. Vote 152 MPs: 146, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal after we have concluded the debates and the vote on this. 3 of the weekly programme, let's proceed to the next fourth point of the weekly programme - the selection of inspectors in the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council, and not as we should continue with this. 2 of the day yesterday.. a second reading of the Law on Higher Education, which will actually continue after we finish the selection under point. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u21	Back-up procedural proposal? I won't. Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 143 MPs: 115 against 6, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: SELECTION OF INSPECTORS IN THE INSPECTOR TO THE HIGH JUDGE COUNCIL. Colleagues, in accordance with the decision adopted by us to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing candidates for the election of inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. in No. 73 of the Official Gazette, I recall the procedure. "V." Selection of inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. 1. The meeting is broadcast in real time via the website....................................................................................................... In a decision of the National Assembly, the candidates who are admitted may attend the meeting. A report has been submitted to the Committee on Legal Affairs. After the presentation of the report to be presented, the National Assembly shall hold the debates on the proposed applications. The vote shall take place separately for each candidate on the order defined in the list of applicants. And the most important point is the selection of candidates who have received the most votes in compliance with the requirement for the majority set out in art. 132a, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the event that more than 10 candidates receive the required number of votes, as required by art. 132a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and of art. 46 of the Judicial Law, among the candidates who received the required but least equal number of votes, a runoff is held and the one who received the most votes is considered elected, but not less than two thirds of the total number of MPs. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening to your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u22	Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a hearing of applicants for inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council At its meeting held on 20 January 2016 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Committee on Legal Affairs heard candidates for inspectors in the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Teodora Tochkova, Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council; Mr. Nikolay Gonchev and Mr. Ivan Georgiev from the Union of Judges in Bulgaria; Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev, Chairman of the Association of Administrative Judges; Mrs. Nedyalka Grozeva and Mr. Teodor Slavev from the Bulgarian Institute for Legal Initiatives; Mr. Iliya Bachev from the Movement of the Civil Society Experts. Within the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and the selection of inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council, twenty proposals have been submitted for candidates for inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council (JVC). All required documents, as referred to in Section I, are annexed to the proposals. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The proposals for candidates, together with all documents, as well as the opinions and questions received by non-profit legal entities registered for carrying out public utility activities, are published within the special section on the website of the National Assembly. According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure, at a previous Commission meeting on 16 December 2015, the submitted documents were verified and all applicants were found to be eligible for specialized magistrate's experience under art. 42, para. 3 of the Law on the Judiciary. On the basis of a request made to the Commission for disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, a check was made on the 20 applicants for the identification of possible belonging of candidates, where no documents were found establishing the belonging of the persons to the State Security authorities and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs submitted on 20 January 2016 a request from the MPs Kiril Dobrev and Dragomir Stoynev for the withdrawal of the candidacy of Mrs. Maya Sotirova Kyoprinska, Gösheva, after which proceed to the hearing of the 19 candidates for inspectors in IWSC in the order defined by alphabetical order according to their own names: Alexander Bozhidarov Mumdjiev, Anelia Zdravkova Markova, Genadi Yordanov Georgiev, Desislava Georgieva Yaneva "Dimitrova," Diana Ognya Dobreva Dobreva, Elena Todorova Velichkova, Ignat Ivanov Georgiev, Yordanka Ivanova Kostova, Lydia Hristova Stoyanova, Ljubka Bogdanova Galkova, Ljubka Dimitrova Kabzimalska Kabzimalska, Lubmirev Krumalska, Maria Vasilev, Maria Slaveva Slava Slava Slavova Slaev, Mrslova Neikoova, Mr. In accordance with the rules, after submission by the importers of the candidates concerned, they had the opportunity to provide additional information on their professional and career development and to develop their concept of the activities of the EMU. The exhibitions of the candidates for inspectors put a number of important highlights on: - as provided for in the constitutional changes adopted, increasing the capacity of the EMU and ensuring the independence of the court at the same time; - the need for strict compliance with the principle of random selection in the distribution of cases, the need to assess the quality of the case, and the determination of clear standards of sanctions against magistrates, with a view to validating the authority of the judiciary; - the strengthening of the role of the ESM in relation to the career growth of magistrates, their attestations and the validation of the analytical start in inspection activities; - the possibility that the data collected during the verification of the EMU provide a basis for analysing the regional distribution of workload, material and human resources of the judiciary and to serve as a reliable basis for the decision-making of the Supreme Judicial Council in the assessment of magistrates and optimization of the workload of the judicial authorities; - the establishment of uniform standards and criteria to be used in carrying out the control powers of the ESM; - the need to ensure the independence of judges, prosecutors and investigators and to comply with the workload of the body concerned, the factual and legal complexity of the cases in question, the number of repealed and confirmed acts and the organisation of the work by means of clear, pre-established and publicly disclosed assessment criteria, procedures and standards; - the possibility to draw up recommendations on the basis of the results of the CVM's checks to contribute to improving the organisation and improving the quality of the judicial activity, with a view to achieving the objectives of the checks, a mechanism for monitoring the implementation of the recommendations given; - compliance with the sequence check............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - the need for specialization of inspectors in matters and types of cases; - overcome the formality of checks and reporting when carrying out the criteria for a reasonable period of time established in the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights; - increasing the role of the EMU as a body working to strengthen the judiciary and restore confidence in it; - ensuring inconclusiveness, consistency and predictability of disciplinary measures proposed by the EMU in similar infringements; - encouraging the work of magistrates performing their duties in good faith, quality and time; - directing the EMU's efforts to turn it into an ethical corrective of the judiciary; - the need in its activities to be fully oriented towards the interests of the state, society and citizens, as well as to ensure compliance with the requirements of art. 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. People's representatives Filip Popov, Chavdar Georgiev, Dimitar Delchev, Dimitar Lazarov, Danail Kirilov, Petar Slavov and Yavor Notev took part in the discussion of the applications for inspectors. In accordance with the rules of procedure adopted, in order to clarify the concepts of the candidates concerned, the Members of the National Assembly raised the following questions to some of them: - What is the view of the relevant candidate for the activities of the EMU as an authority and what assessment does he make of his current activities? - What does the notion of a deficit of democratic legitimacy of magistrates contain? - Will the independence of magistrates be affected by constitutional changes and the expansion of the functions and powers of the EMU? - Is the EMU able with its new powers to deal with the problems of the judiciary and to contribute to restoring confidence in it? - How can abuse be avoided by the parties in the pending trial by submitting an alert to the EMU? - How does the candidate imagine performing the signal function of the ESM? - Is it possible to carry out an analysis of the judicial act entered into force and its compliance with uniform caselaw at the time of the completion of the proceedings? - Can the EMU check the quality of the legal acts? - What does the magistrates' integrity check cover? - Can the EMU intervene in public scandals affecting the prestige of the judiciary and its independence and subsequently refer the prosecution to a reasoned assumption of committing a crime? Following the submission of the relevant questions, the applicants to whom they were addressed justified their views on them. Following the hearing and on the basis of the concepts presented, the Members of the National Assembly agreed that the candidates comply with the minimum legal requirements for taking up the position of Inspector of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council, with regard to them no data are presented to question their moral and professional qualities, their preparation and personal motivation for taking up the position of Inspector of the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council and enjoy impeccable professional reputation and public support. The Committee on Legal Affairs with 18 votes for the Supreme Judicial Council, without any objection, shall propose to the National Assembly that the nineteen candidates for Inspectors of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council be subject to a discussion and a consistent vote to which a list of candidates and a draft decision is applied in accordance with the annexes to the report. List of applicants for inspectors in the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council: 1. Alexander Bozhidarov Mumdzhiev; 2. Anelia Zdravkova Markova; 3. Genadi Yordanov Georgiev; 4. Desislava Georgieva Yaneva? Dimitrova; 5. Diana Ognyanova Dobreva; 6. Elena Todorova Velichkova; 7. Ignat Ivanov Georgiev; 8. Yordanka Ivanova Kostova; 9. Lydia Hristova Stoyanova; 10. Ljubka Bogdanova Gelkova; 11. Ljubka Dimitrova Kabzimalska; 12. Lyubomir Vassilev Krumov; 13. Maria Vasileva Slavcheva; 14. Maria Gospodinova Neykova; 15. Milcho Ivanov Genzhov; 16. Stefka Staneva Muliacka; 17. Teodora Georgieva Ninova; 18. Tsenka Ivanova Georgieva; 19. Yuri Dimitrov Krastev. Project! DECISION appointing an inspector in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 132a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 42, para. Art. 1 and 3 and art. 46 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Choose................................................................ as inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. The decision was adopted by the 43rd National Assembly of................................................................................................ 2016 and is stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly. Chairman of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, the debate is open. After a thorough hearing of the nominated candidates in the Legal Commission, which was broadcast on the website of the National Assembly, I am convinced that many colleagues have followed the presentation of the individual candidates. [[Noise. Reference between the President of the National Assembly Tsetska Tsacheva and the National Representative Danail Kirilov.]] Colleagues, I am going back to the rules of procedure, as there is a dispute here as to whether the candidates should be presented again in the Chamber. I have explicitly read the Decision, which is promulgated. Candidates shall be submitted by an importer, but it shall be the meeting of the Legal Commission by order set out in a list drawn up in alphabetical order of their own names in an exhibition within 2 minutes. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall submit a report to the hearing held. And then after this point three, there's point four: "4." Following the presentation of the report, the National Assembly shall hold the debates on the submitted nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. There is no re-submission procedure in the candidate's room. Are there any MPs who wish to take part in the report of the Legal Committee? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I invite you to the auditorium... [[Replication by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov. Noise and lines.]] Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. In view of the forthcoming vote, I propose a roll call procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u25	Aidoan Mutalib Ali is missing Ayhan Ahmed Etem here. Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Hristov Methodiev- here Aliosman Ibraim Imamov-- here. Altimir Emilov Adamov- absent Ana Georgieva Barakova- here Angel Petrov Naydenov- here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev- here Antony Antonyev Trenchev- here Atanas Zafirov- Zafirov is absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov- here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov- here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov here Boyka Grozeva Marinska- here Boris Borisov Stanimirov- here Boris Yankov Yachev- here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov- here Borislav Mihailov Borisov- absent Borislav Rajchov Milanov- here Borislav Sabinov Iglev- here Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- here Valentin Ivanov Radev- here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov- absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- here Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova- here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov- absent Willy Mladenov Lilkov- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- here Volen Nikolov Siderov- here Galya Eneva Zaharieva- here Galya Simeonova Georgieva- here Georg Danielov Georgiev- here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev- here Georgi Ivanov Andonov- here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov- here Georgi Nikolov Nedev- here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- here Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov- here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov- absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- here Georgi Yanchev Gokov- here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov- here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen here. Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- here Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov-- here. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov- here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova- here Diana Ivanova Yordanova- here Dimitar Angelov Gorov- here Dimitar Andreev Delchev- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov- here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov- here Dimitar Krumov Tanev- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov- here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov- here Dimitar Tanev Tanev-here Dimitar Hristov Zhelev here Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov- here Doncho Spasov Baxanov- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa- here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Emil Dimitrov Reinov- here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin-here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula-here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov- here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Penkov Ivanov- here Ivan Slavov Ivanov- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- here Ivan Stoev Cholakov- here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov- here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- absent Ilian Sashov Todorov- here Iliya Yankov Iliev- here Irena Ivanova Kotseva- here Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- here Kalina Petrova Balabanova- here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov- here Katya Nikolaeva Popova- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Cyril Dobrev Dobrev- here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev- here Kiril Petrov Tsochev- absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyozov- here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Korman Yakubov Ismailov- absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov- here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov- here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov- here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan is absent. Magdalena Lambova Tasheva- here Manol Minchev Manev- here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva- here Mariana Georgieva Todorova- here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov- here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- here Method Borisov Andreev- here Mehmet Umer Ataman is absent. Miglena Doykova Alexandrova- absent Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Mithat Sabri Metin is missing Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mihail Raykov Mikov- here Miho Dimitrov Mihov- here Musa Cemal Palev- absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye- here. Mustafa Fahri Ahmed here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev- absent Nevin Halil Hassan-- here. Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Neno Hristov Vlaikov- here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Petar Vladislavov Slavov- here Petar Georgiev Kadiev- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- here Petar Ivanov Petrov- here Petar Kostadinov Petrov- here Petar Pandushev Chobanov- here Peter Hristov Bekov- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova- here Radan Milenov Kanev- here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova- here Ramadan Bajram Atali here Rosen Petrov Petrov- here Rumen Vasilev Gechev- here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov- here Rumen Dinev Zhelev here. We have a two-thirds qualified majority, whatever it takes to elect the judicial inspectors, which is why we can move on to a vote. On the list of the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs is first Alexander Bozhidarov Mumdzhiev: Project! DECISION appointing an inspector in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, in conjunction with Art. 1 132a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 42, para. Art. 1 and 3 and art. 46 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Alexander Bozhidarov Mumdzhiev as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Vote 193 MPs: 184, against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. The next candidate, according to the list, is Anelia Zdravkova Markova. Colleagues, so that I don't read the draft decision every time for a reason, I only read the operative that we are putting to the vote. Project! DECISION The National Assembly... HAS DECIDED He elected Anelia Zdravkova Markova as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. They voted 167 MPs: for 6, against 1, abstention 160. The offer is not accepted. Project! DECISION The National Assembly... HAS DECIDED He chose Genadi Yordanov Georgiev as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Vote 198 MPs: 188, against 4, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION The National Assembly... HAS DECIDED He elected Desislava Georgieva Yaneva as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Vote 174 MPs: 32, none, abstention 142. The offer is not accepted. Project! DECISION The National Assembly... HAS DECIDED He chose Diana Ognyanova Dobreva as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Vote 175 MPs: 60 against 5, abstention 110. The offer is not accepted. Project! DECISION The National Assembly... HAS DECIDED Elena Todorova Velichkova is elected Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. They voted 161 MPs: 13, against 6, abstention 142. The offer is not accepted. Project! DECISION The National Assembly... HAS DECIDED He elected Ignat Ivanov Georgiev as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. They voted 201 MPs: for 199, they didn't mind, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION: The National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Yordanka Ivanova Kostova as Inspector of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. We vote. They voted 161 MPs: for 6, against 8, abstention 147. The offer is not accepted. The next project is: He chose Lydia Hristova Stoyanova as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. We vote. Vote 190 MPs: 187, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The next draft decision is: He chose Ljubka Bogdanova Gelkova as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. We vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u26	Madam President, can you read the names again?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u27	Yeah, there's two names on the list. I read: Ljubka Bogdanova Gelkova. We vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I cannot announce a result unless 160 Members of Parliament have voted as necessary for the quorum. There are more colleagues in the room. My request is for more colleagues to vote. Vote 162 MPs: 29, Against 4, abstention 129. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the draft decision: He chose Ljubka Dimitrova Kabzimalska as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Vote 187 MPs: 174, against 2, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Draft decision: He chose Lyubomir Vassilev Krumov as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. We vote. Vote 192 MPs: 188, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Draft decision: He elected Maria Vasileva Slavcheva as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. We have not reached the necessary quorum, fellow Members. Re-vote for the candidacy of Maria Vasileva Slavcheva. Vote 172 MPs: 21, Against 1, abstention 150. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the election of Maria Gospodinova Neykova as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Vote 190 MPs: 187, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the election of Milcho Ivanov Genzhov as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. They voted 164 MPs: 24, none, 140 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the election of Stefka Staneva Muliacka as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Vote 184 MPs: 180, no objection, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the election of Teodora Georgieva Ninova as Inspector of the Inspectorate at the SJC. Vote 187 MPs: 184, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the election of Tsenka Ivanova Georgieva as Inspector of the Inspectorate at the SJC. They voted 161 MPs: for 29, they didn't mind, they abstained 132. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the election of Yuri Dimitrov Krastev as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Vote 190 MPs: 186 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I declare as elected inspectors in the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council of: Alexander Bozidarov Mumdzhiev, Genadi Yordanov Georgiev, Ignat Ivanov Georgiev, Lydia Hristova Stoyanova, Ljubka Dimitrova Kabzimalska, Lyubomir Vassilev Krumov, Maria Gospodinova Neykova, Stefka Staneva Muliacka, Teodora Georgieva Ninova and Yuri Dimitrov Krastev. That's the end of this point. Let's continue with: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR HIGH LIVING. On yesterday, the name of the Law was voted and § 1, § 2 was reported and we are in a debate mode. He has the word Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u28	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, a little introductory words, as we have interrupted the work on the bill. Paragraph 2 of the Law under consideration amended art. 9 of the Act on Higher Education in force. Article 9 deals with extremely important issues, namely: how the state exercises its functions in the management of higher education and this is done through the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers. The amendments that are being made, I find it extremely relevant, necessary and crucial big round of disease problems. For example, the way in which the Council of Ministers determines the number of students and PhD students accepted for training in state universities, for which the state provides funds to support their education in accordance with para. 4 of the Law. In a new way with the amendments to para. 4 to 9 this issue will be determined by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister, but this validation will be done by state universities, in professional fields, in specialties from regulated professions and in the form of training. The amendment of the Law, unlike the Act in force, offers objective criteria for the State to assess before assigning the so-called State contract to the higher education institution concerned. In order to complete the legislative cycle, the amendments are directed to the Council of Ministers to adopt an act to arrange the way and order for the specific determination of the number of students and PhD students to be adopted. In addition, this act of the Council of Ministers provides for another round of extremely important issues to be settled, namely: the criterion for determining the professional priority directions, or, more precisely, the priority professional directions of the specialities of protection, as well as the list of them adopted by the Act under para. 5. Another extremely important issue is settled that for the accepted professional directions adopted as priority and the protected specialties can be established a larger number of students and PhD students accepted for training provided for under the relevant para. 3, p. Six and so on. Why do I think this is extremely important and I will support it? But I'll tell you why I think it's not enough-- So far, the Higher Education Act has said that the number of students is determined by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister, and he is preparing his proposal on a proposal from state universities and they are thus determining the total number of students and PhD students according to the capacity of higher schools. From now on, I will talk about the dramatic problems of technical higher education. I see I'm running out of time. That's where the total number was taken. The Vuses benefited from the amendments of the laws in force and the technical vouses created specialties "Economics" "Ecology", "Pedagogy". And this total number, provided for technical institutions, more than 70%, entered the sidelines of technical engineering specialities and there remained several people. And because the money followed the student, the professors were forced those on several students to lead them from first to fifth courses. There are no lectures there, Mr. Deputy Minister, with great respect for you. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u29	Mr. Bozhinoff, get your head in the game.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u30	I'm pointing at it. So the amendment that is proposed, the admission to be both in speciality and in professional fields, to have protected specialties and priority specialties is a good solution that I will support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u31	Thank you for your speech, Mr. Bojinov. Any lines to that statement? I can't see. Any other statements under § 2? Here you go, Professor. Stankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u32	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I believe that § 2 is extremely important in the majority, as it is presented. Our parliamentary group and I will support it. We have been waiting a long time for a decision on how to implement student acceptance so that it is fair enough. ) (a.k.a. 2 of para. 4 I have an objection to the problem of realization of the personnel. I have made another proposal for the realization of graduates and PhD students to replace them with the suggestions of the users of staff (relevant ministries and NGOs). I believe that realization, as presented, is not the most objective criterion. Why? What are my considerations? What does realization mean? Getting a job and a job for a couple of years doesn't mean the footage's real. At first reading I presented some examples of the agrarian specialities where we have a low degree of realization, what is reported, but there are some additional spheres related to the industry where the staff can be realized and are realized, but they are usually not reported. So realization is miscounted. I also pointed out medicine at the four universities available, two other faculties and several other additional higher education schools, the state should be oversaturated with staff, and they always do not reach. We have determined why this is so much goes and is realized abroad. Then I said that poor Bulgaria produces footage for the rich countries in Europe. I know that since the Commission does not support this proposal, what it proposes will be voted on. Further consideration should be given to some things: realization should be taken into account for a longer period of time, and not just a year. This must be taken into account in the regulatory documents. I think there is another important thing: in any case, the areas related to the main industry should be taken into account where the footage is realized. I'll point to agronomy and zooengineering again. Most are realized outside the farms, not only on fields and on farms, but go to the processing industry....................................................................................... In the police, too, the business police and many other places. We need to be objective when we take into account this criteria of realization. That's my thesis, that's what I'm trying to protect, and the solution will be at the General Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u33	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Any lines to the statement? Mr. Bojinov, come in. This is an unsupported proposal by the Commission and you replicate the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u34	I replicate the motives of the speaker and insist that these four criteria, which I have defined as objective, remain because, in the fourth criterion, the stated readiness of state higher education institutions for a certain number of students, are included in addition to their capabilities and requests of the industry concerned. And here are the need for such personnel and the readiness to remain the realization of the graduates in any case. Drama in higher technical education is now expressed by the fact that real businessmen are looking for students who graduated ten years ago. I do not have time to develop this problem, but if the Council of Ministers establishes an objective evaluation mechanism, a number of engineering specialities will have to be objectively closed. The level of personnel entering without mathematical and technical training does not allow them to develop at the level of higher engineering and technical personnel, and the lecturers lead them from the first to the last course, because if they apply objective criteria of their assessment, they will cease to receive salaries. This problem cannot be solved by the Law. I will give an example: in Poland 15 years ago, they identified this problem, made deep changes in secondary education, economic, social and psychological decisions, and today Poland is preparing engineering and technical personnel for its shipbuilding, metallurgy, colour metallurgy, mining and geological activities and so on. The situation in higher technical engineering education in Bulgaria is tragic. The law makes a change and let us remain realization as criteria plus what you said, dear Professor. Stankov, but this stays!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u35	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Second line? I won't. Professor Stankov? You don't want a doppelganger. Any other statements under § 2? Here you are, Mrs. Boyka Marinska.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u36	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I want to motivate my proposal under Art. 2. 9, para. 3, p. 9 after the word "qualification" to be added to the text "for recognition of acquired in foreign higher schools educational and scientific degree "doctor." My motives are as follows: after the entry into force of the Law on the Development of the Academic Board and the abolition of the centralized body for issuing or recognising diplomas for educational and scientific degrees, a doctor received abroad, the procedures for recognition of these diplomas have been included in the regulations of higher schools and the procedure for this recognition is extremely clumsy. There have been numerous cases of Bulgarian young people who received a diploma for educational and scientific degrees in countries of the European Union or in another country who have difficulty recognising these diplomas after their return to Bulgaria. This hinders their career growth in higher schools in Bulgaria, where posts with unlimited duration of the employment contract require the availability of an educational and scientific degree. The clarification and easing of this procedure, especially for the diplomas acquired in accredited educational institutions in EU countries, will help the mobility of scientists, which is among the priorities of the European Union, and will facilitate the return of highly qualified young people to Bulgaria, such as countering the brain drain and negative demographic trends in Bulgaria. A simplified procedure is needed in the Ministry of Education and Science for the recognition of diplomas for educational and scientific degrees, received by an accredited educational institution in a European Union country, which is achieved precisely by this legal change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. You are actually arguing that the Commission supports a proposal. A line on this proposal? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. Honourable Members, we are going into voting mode. Under § 2 of this Bill, we are first to vote unsupported by the Commission. It is from the MP Ivan Stankov. Please, voting mode. [[Heckling]] We are voting unsupported by the Commission for a proposal. They voted 86 MPs: 26, against 5, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting, honourable Members, § 2 by importer, after editing the Commission. [[Heckling]] We are voting on the text edited by the Commission for § 2. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u38	A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Stephanie Mihaylova. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 et c. 2 letter.............................................................................. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 2 A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Borislav Veliev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the word "institutions" shall be added to the branch of a higher school abroad. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: point 3 (a) (i) (i) (ii) is replaced by the following: 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 words are replaced by higher education abroad, including degree diplomas corresponding to PhD and PhD; 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 the words "or converted' are deleted; 5. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 is finally added.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u39	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, proposals from the Commission to create a new § 3. [[Heckling]] We are voting in favour of the Commission paragraph. They voted 99 MPs: 91, none, abstention 8. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u40	According to § 3 a proposal from the National Representative Borislav Borisov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Stephanie Mihaylova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 In the event of a follow-up and control under para. 4 non-compliance within the time limit of recommendations referred to in the accreditation decision of the accreditation board or of the relevant permanent committees on areas of higher education, non-compliance with criteria for the implementation of the internal system for assessment and maintenance of the quality of training or for established infringements of the law, the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency: 1. reduce the accreditation assessment, the duration of accreditation, the university or its professional fields respectively; 2. reduces the educational capacity of the higher school or professional direction; 3. withdraws institutional and/or programme accreditation for a specified period. (6) The National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency shall carry out follow-up monitoring and control in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency or on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science for the withdrawal of accreditation under art. 10, para. 2, p. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u41	Thank you. Speeches, honourable colleagues? I don't see anyone who wants to. The voting mode of the vote is the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for § 3, which is proposed to become § 4. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted. I am now asking for an additional report submitted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u42	Mr President, honourable Members, we are moving on to the Additional Report, which has also been distributed in this House. According to § 4 the proposal from the MP Borislav Veliev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Boyka Marinska, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Borislav Veliev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 4, which becomes § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following 1. In para. 1 after the word "University" is added "Research universities". 2. In para. 2 is created t. 10: ..10. there is an intellectual property protection system which includes rules and structure for the realization of research results and other intellectual property sites, as well as training on intellectual property protection. 3. In para. 3 words................................................................................. 2, p. 2 "9" is replaced by "al." 2, p. 2.. 4. A new para is being created. 4. The University of Research is a university which: 1. meets the requirements of para. 2 or 3; 2. make a significant contribution to the development of important public areas through high research and has high results of research, assessed according to objective indicators defined in an act adopted by the Council of Ministers; 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in that sentence, in the first sentence, the words......... 9 and 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): Five o'clock. 7. Previously on AMC's... 6 and 7 become respectively. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u43	Thank you. Statements? Here you are, Professor. Bachvarova, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u44	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed text of the importer also creates prerequisites for many questions that lead to the conclusion that we already know who the research universities are. Why? First, if you read t. 10 of para. There is a system of intellectual property protection, but first, you must have intellectual property that is protected and only then have an intellectual property protection system. And intellectual property is protected if it is patented, whether it is a trademark, whether it is copyright, is protected under the relevant legal order. I can say that I have intellectual property, but it, if it is not protected by the relevant legal procedure in the country, cannot be defined as intellectual property. All other possible options are at the discretion of academic, scientific council and at all a procedure that gives no reason to believe that this property is a new product and new knowledge. Therefore, in my opinion, the editing: there is a system of protection of intellectual property and a system of protection of intellectual property should not be the correct definition, but there should be an intellectual property and a system of protection of intellectual property. Otherwise we have the department, we have the training of students and suddenly we say that having these prerequisites, without intellectual product, we are conducting a research university as follows, because you are then saying: Who would appreciate it if you didn't have the appropriate legal document to determine this property for you? Research universities must have the scientific product in order to conduct research as the proposal has been made. I'm making a suggestion: "2." In para. 2 is created t. 10: ..10. has intellectual property and hence a system for its protection and management because it must also be managed from the point of view of its application as knowledge and skills in practice in order to be an innovative product accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u45	You're making an editorial proposal. 10: There is a system of protection of intellectual property. Can you give it to me in writing? Then does the other text, which is on the report, drop or continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u46	It's going on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u47	Please, in writing, and we'll put it to the vote. Replices, honourable colleagues. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My fellow Member, I am taking a line with regard to your reasoning regarding the intellectual property protection system and the attempt to create a debate of the kind of which is the first: whether the egg or the hen. I stress that there is no obstacle to an intellectual property protection system, regardless of how many objects of this protection are available. On the contrary, even when the objective of management or creation of intellectual property protection is announced, it is normal to have a prior tactic, a methodology, I would say, to some extent and a strategy of protection. Here as a whole I would also point out that the expression is typically pretentious for the regulations of education and not particularly legally precise in view of the following: the protection of these objects is established by law. Whatever system is being established, the intellectual property rights subject shall be protected by law. Everything else is internal rules, internal approaches that may have some attitude within a community, but the rights and legal consequences are established only within the framework of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u49	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Is there a second line? I won't. Professor Bachvarova, come in for your coat. You are de facto proposing a protection and management system. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u50	Dear Mr. Kirilov, as this will be the criterion to define a university for research if it does not have the object of national property................................. is a product, is it a patent, is it a trademark, is it something else related to knowledge, what system of protection?! And all of a sudden, I have a system of protection, but I don't have the intellectual product, and this university we're recording it for scientific research because there's no other way than for the product to be there so that you can have all the other systems. The system you have because you create an innovative product, but if it is not protected, the university cannot be research. Since there is a great drama here which universities would be research if we set the requirement that I created a system, but I don't have the product, what does it mean? Each university will make the necessary system without correspondingly related to a specific manifestation of a new product, a new service, a new element of knowledge at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u51	Thank you for your douche bag. Docent Mihov, come in for a statement, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u52	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I am not going to stop myself from having this supplementary report at a Commission meeting yesterday. Important issues must be dealt with and the Commission must work operationally and businessly, but I will focus on a few important points. In practice, our proposed text under § 4 goes into a very serious discrepancy with the text which governs the status of the research universities of the importing Council of Ministers, which was adopted and protected by the Ministry of Education and Science and which was initially supported by the Committee on Education and Science. What is the qualitative difference between the proposal of the Council of Ministers, which is further in the report, and this proposal? In short, this proposal creates a fourth type of university, the so-called.... research universities.............................................................................................. Creating with the amendment of art. 17 this fourth type of university, we open a very difficult procedure for announcing and entering the group of research universities, which is provided for in art. 16 of the Act in force. In short, this includes a decision of the National Assembly. While the idea of the Council of Ministers is supported by us from the Patriotic Front, it was the universities of a cyclic period of time, as a result of their development, displayed qualities, developed research activity, to acquire the status of research universities, which creates, naturally, competition, competition, aspiration for entry into the club of elite universities. The settlement of the matter in this way........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 17, in practice leads to the preservation of a status quo, because once received by an act of decision of the National Assembly the status of research universities, this guarantees for a very long period a situation which can hardly be changed in purely legal and legal order. Next, such a provision runs into some contradiction with Chapter Eight of the Law on Higher Education, art. 63, para. 1 which explicitly incorporates as an integral part of the activities of universities research activity. I think that this way of settling the issue of a research university, or more precisely for the status of a research university, is rather clumsy, bureaucratic, regulatoryly complicated, which does not give rise to, creates conditions for competition, for a competition between different universities, and so it will have a negative attitude on the development of Bulgarian higher education, on the development of a large part of Bulgarian universities and higher schools, which will be faced with the fight against a sealed, with very severe, regulatoryly defined procedures and status quo. That is why I appeal to all MPs for serious treatment of this. We will refrain from supporting this bill. Once again we declare that we will support the Draft Law of the Council of Ministers, as the Ministry and Minister Tanev supported in the Committee on Education and Science the text, which we will see a little further.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u53	Thank you, Assoc. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. There's a word for a statement, Assoc. Gorgeous.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal I made under § 4 is related to an addition to Article 4. 17 of the Law on Higher Education, which regulates the types of higher schools in Bulgaria and the requirements to be met. To remind colleagues that according to this article, para. 1, Higher Schools are defined as three main types of universities, specialized universities and solo colleges. In the proposal, which was approved by the Commission yesterday, I thank my fellow Members, a new fourth kind of higher education university is added. It is proposed that this kind of university be opened as Assoc. Mihov mentioned, on a relatively complex procedure, which, however, guarantees sustainability, which is important for this type of higher school to be opened or converted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, following a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science and a decision of the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency. This Agency may then, at any time on a proposal from the Minister, carry out a follow-up check on how the requirements under which the relevant university was produced by our National Assembly as a research university continue to be fulfilled. My motives are summarized in three groups. First group of reasons for the compliance of this proposal with the state policy on the development of higher education and adopted strategic documents. I would remind you that on 25 February last year we adopted the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2020, according to which the figure of this new type of research universities should be introduced, which we are currently doing. Under the Strategy, these higher schools should be entitled to funding scientific activities from the national budget, as well as the corresponding obligation to report to the State and society the effectiveness of the funds spent on science. As noted in the Strategy, there are higher education universities with rich scientific activities and those who hardly have such scientific activities. With the introduction of the new type of research universities and their corresponding state funding for research, it is expected to create lasting incentives for all universities to develop their scientific and innovation activities. The second group of reasons relates to the development of public relations which the Higher Education Act currently governs and to the extent to which their corresponding legislation reflects this development. In the last 10 years there have been many changes to the Law on Higher Education, for which some of us have acted, but these numerous changes have gradually led to the deletion of the difference between universities and specialized higher schools, such as with the provision of art. 17, para. 3 of the Law, specialized universities are given the right to be universities. At present, 30 universities from 51 accredited schools are called universities. Thus, the distinction between multi-profile universities that we perceive as the highest type of schools and specialized higher schools that train students in only one or several related professional directions was lost. On the other hand, in art. 17, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education as a criterion for determining the higher school as a university indicates the requirement for the school to study a wider range of specialities of professional fields, at least three of the four main areas of science. Among the other requirements of art. 17, para. 1 does not explicitly include research of the university as an independent main activity of the university. A little bit more should be said at this point. From the point of view of compliance with European policies, I will note the European Commission's working document on the European Research Area, where there is unfortunately not a single University of Central and Eastern Europe. In conclusion, I will say that with the proposed addition under art. 17 The objectives set out in our exhibition, the link between national and European policy and the subjective element and the provisional nature of the decision on the establishment of a list of higher education institutions of the nature of research, which was mentioned by the colleague Assoc. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u55	Thank you, Assoc. Gorgeous. - What's the line? Here you go, Assoc. Mihov. It's kind of like an associate debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u56	Honorable Mr. Chairman, this is a guarantee of the high quality of the debate. High esteemed colleague Veliko, you are correct in the number of universities in Bulgaria, but I will remind you that this happened at the end of 1996, before Christmas, I remember, with an Act of the National Assembly, when all existing institutes and other higher schools were proclaimed universities until then. This is a modest historical argument in favour of what I defend that it is better to accept the proposal of the Council of Ministers in § 19. Next, I would like to replicate you. Yes, there is a difference between the scientific activities of universities or higher schools in Bulgaria, but I do not accept this to be a responsibility or a negative above all to the people who teach or engage in science in these units. No one would argue here that modern science is primarily possible with a certain financial resource. For one reason or another, part of universities do better by attracting additional, not state resources, and this enables them to develop, but it is in no case a measure of the quality of teachers or the scientific compositions of other universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u57	Any other lines? I won't. Docent Veliv, come in for the douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand what my colleague Mihov says. I cannot quite justify it, as it is obvious that since we want such a figure to exist, such a university of higher education, the support of the state is not only for these universities, but mainly for them, as they have already proven themselves to be clear. This is also provided for in the texts. My colleague Mihov knows. Our aim is for all our higher schools to raise their level as a basic criterion, which, with the help of the new type of higher education, is to achieve research universities. I will mention only a few universities as an example, which are in the League of European Research universities... the University of Cambridge, Heidelberg, Oxford, Pierre and Marie Curie in Paris, Zurich and many other leading research universities in Europe. We must strive for them. With the texts that we have clarified in the Commission, having taken into account all the comments and concerns of colleagues and the Commission and beyond, we have selected such a mechanism for the opening and transformation by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, not to repeat again, which will ensure that all higher schools in the country are able to apply, to be accepted in this elite club of research universities, as has been mentioned. This will definitely raise the quality of higher education in Bulgaria. I am an alumni, as well as many others in the hall, of Sofia University. The Faculty of Chemistry. I have to tell you that the role of professors, professors and docs at this university, as well as other universities, is really important for attracting additional funds in various projects and programmes. There's no way to say this. So with the help of these texts, we would like to encourage greater activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u59	Thank you. The next speech is from the MP Danail Kirilov. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will try, without aggravating the debate, to briefly develop several arguments on why not support Mrs Bachvarova's editorial proposal in relation to this. 10 of the Commission's version. There is no way that an entity in, in, to call it a regulatory regime, would have first the objects of industrial property before having the system, because, first, the objects are different by species and by their essence, second, because when an invention or another object of industrial property should be identified with regard to the author and the user, there should be clearly regulated relationships. The debate has so far said how many different types of staff there are at the university or at the scientific institute. I guess they'll all be involved in the research process. However, they must have a clear regulation on how they create it. For example, the easiest thing to explain is the invention of how they invent. There's no doubt they're co-authors. The question is who will be the owner of the rights to the industrial property site. I am saying that the typical case of creation of an invention is in the hypothesis of the so-called "service invention', i.e. the scientific institute entrusts by research to professors, to docs, to assistants to work on a topic that can lead to novelty, to a discovery that can be exemplary patented. In view of other industrial property sites, many can vary. Therefore, I consider it a correct expression, as it is given, that there must be rules and structure in order for the associate professor to go and undertake a task or seek a certain solution, to know what rights he will receive. In any case, it will be an author, in any case in the patent protection documents it will be referred to as an author. However, the holder of the patent holding the rights to use the invention should therefore be the scientific institute. The regulation will show who will pay and maintenance fees for intellectual property sites, who will also negotiate with investors who would, for example, invest in industrial property sites. It will also be distinguished because here under objects, as it is said, intellectual property is most widely included and copyrights on articles and monographs have a completely different nature and a completely different way of protection. Yes, but the rules will say: you will point out that you are a professor or associate professor from one university and that this article is published not in your personal capacity as a professor. Therefore, in my opinion, your proposal should not be accepted. How will a university join, say, your sites, which now have an absolutely different status of registration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u61	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Anyone want a line? The intellectual property debate is the foundation of this type of university. Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u62	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kirilov! As I formally agree with your statement, I would like to draw attention to the following: the creation of an intellectual property structure is automatically a prerequisite for putting this university in the research group. I give you an example: a patent, for example, in the area where I think I am a specialist, is protected as intellectual property from 8 to 12 years old, in the field of livestock is between 35 and 40 years old. We create a structure that will protect intellectual property, define this university immediately for research and wait 15 or 16 years for this product to appear. It is true that this is state property here, regardless of the fact that docs and professors take part in this property. However, this is state-owned intellectual property, which must be protected because funding for its creation comes from the budget of the relevant organisations. The scientific activity itself cannot be a private initiative and there is none in Bulgaria, at least in these 25 years, for the simple reason that huge costs are required, which no private entity can afford. By formally accepting your clarification, the automatic recognition of research universities under this paragraph is unacceptable for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u63	Thanks for the line. Second line? A hole, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u64	It's a very short coat. By thanking you for accepting, albeit, saying, 'formally' this logic, I would like to ask 'this is part of the complex of requirements that are relevant to the research institute or research university. That's not a requirement. I see it as an essential basic and meaningful prerequisite. Yeah, some inventions take twelve to twenty years, others a year or two. This is for one species, for patents, but there are other types of protection of industrial property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u65	Thank you for your douche bag. Professor Stanilov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm going out to fully join Assoc. Milen Mihov and say a few words about the same matter. The issue is a fundamental.. either we are for a liberal solution to the problem, or we are for a conservative solution to the problem. I have gone out before you many times to say that I am a conservative politician and I have always kept conservative depending on what it is, but this is no longer a problem of discussion. We are now offered to change the liberal approach of the Council of Ministers, respectively the Ministry of Education and Science, with a conservative model. What's that supposed to mean? It is known which universities can now be ranked as research. We pass through the National Assembly to enter this fourth type and again to get out through the National Assembly to enter new ones again through the National Assembly, to leave the National Assembly again, which makes the system very clumsy, recognized by the importers themselves. You know what amazes me? It amazes me that people, politicians, MPs who have a liberal philosophy of governance offer a conservative solution to the problem of research. It was voted in the Commission by the representatives of the Reformation Bloc, GERB, on the claim of the most liberal party So what happened? That here the constantly accused of communism social liberals voted for the liberal idea, the constantly accused of nationalism attackers and nationalism patriotic forces also voted liberally. Doesn't that amaze you, and can't you come to some conclusion?! Honourable Members, this is the lobbying law. Don't vote on it. There's a second moment of lobbying. This new group of universities terminates the mandate of the Rectors. The rectors of these universities, apart from two previous mandates, are entitled to two more. That doesn't look like anything, and in the sense of academic democracy, it's a downfall. Finally, we have to say frankly who he pleads for and what he pleads for. And it is amazing that at the moment a Rector from our major universities must hold a general meeting for the election of a new Rector because his mandates have expired. He twists and doesn't. Why? Ask yourself a question waiting for this Law. That's embarrassing! I don't know what else to tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u67	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Are there lines? Professor Veliv, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand Professor's arguments. Stanilov, but I don't share them. I believe that it is too extreme in some of its assessments, as the insistence of the majority of the MPs was to create sustainability in the procedures for the announcement of the new type of higher school, research universities, must be done by an act of the National Assembly. So, as in the distant 1996, but colleagues from the National Assembly, perhaps some of them are still among us.. I actually know about one who is still among us, have adopted it by an act of our National Assembly. We must treat the National Assembly with respect, one such sustainability is necessary. That there are currently five, six or ten universities that can meet the requirements for research universities, not to accept this proposal purely, with a state-owned approach, because perhaps someone would benefit from this is the kind of antlobism that Prof. Stanilov, for God's sake, I wasn't expecting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u69	Thank you. Second line? I won't. Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u70	Not someone, but certain institutions and specific people, this first. And I did not expect that Borislav Veliev, to whom I always have personal respect, as a politician and as a businessman and, above all, as a scientist, did not expect to lobby in such a way for such a change. But in life, and the most pathetic in politics, all sorts of things happen. I'll say it again, it's lobbying! This is lobbying and we are disgraced by voting on such a correction.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u71	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov's procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure. [[Reply from MP Mariana Georgieva.]] At any given moment, as long as there is no replica and no duplicate, Mrs. Georgieva, a procedure can be requested and I am obliged to give it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think there have been enough opinions and opinions, there have been many speeches, so I propose that the debate be stopped and that the texts be voted on. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u73	You are proposing an end to the debate. A counteroffer? Here's your offer back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to draw attention to the importance of the text that we are voting on, to highlight the speech of Prof. Stanilov, to draw attention to the need to take this into account more seriously in the proposal, which was made for the separation of universities into two species in Bulgaria. This is a fundamental change in the system of higher education, and it cannot be made with similar ill-advised amendments to the Law as it is currently being proposed. It requires a complete change of the model in higher education in Bulgaria and careful consideration of the system of academic autonomy and the way of management and choice of the manuals of different universities. [[Replys: "This is a statement! "]] The current proposal is not dictated by anything other than the actual elimination of mandates in rectors. I therefore call on the debate not to end. There are more things that can be said about this, so that most of the MPs can get acquainted with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u75	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Honourable Members, we are voting on the procedural proposal to end the debate on proposals by the Commission § 5. They voted 121 MPs: 95, against 21, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We are calling off the debate on this paragraph. Docent Georgieva, you had a procedure in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines.]] Professor Georgieva, I apologize, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Because I had said a statement even before Assoc. Mihov and since you have decided that pre-spoken statements cannot be met and the procedure interrupts them automatically, I would like to say that with a similar approach to the majority of the debate was not motivated in the work of the Committee on Education and Science under the Law on pre-school and school education, similar paradoxes should be expected as yesterday's meeting with the new political cabinet of the Ministry of Education and Science, where the team of the Ministry requested expert evaluation of texts adopted in the presence of the Ministry's cabinet and in the pleasure of the undisputed expertise of the Ministry of Education and Science. That's how it's gonna be... [[(Replyes:.) This is not a procedure.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u77	Please...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u78	This is how it will be when you accept the text about research university and when it shines into practice that politics is not flirting and politics is not cosmetics... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u79	Professor Georgieva...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u80	Higher education policy is not cosmetics. The research university doesn't match the stable management program where...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u81	Professor Georgieva, I'm going to interrupt. I'll cut you off!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u82	...you have a model of entrepreneurial university at stake.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u83	Professor Georgieva, thank you for that speech. It was as if there were things that had passed on to the Commission and there was no one to blame to me, but if I had to answer, I strictly followed the Rules. So now what I will do: we will move on to the vote on the proposed paragraph. First, however, we have an editorial proposal that we are going to vote on. It's from professor. Bachvarova...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u84	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u85	Milen Mihov, come in. [[Noise and lines: We are in voting mode!]] Please, I haven't announced it yet. I went to read, but I didn't say we're voting. Here you go. Because it's the way it is, I still need to hear the argument.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u87	Is this a way to conduct or procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u88	Procedure in the manner of voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u89	In the manner of voting? That surprises me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u90	We will make a proposal for a separate vote. We're making an offer. 2 of the proposal under § 4, which becomes § 5 of the Additional Report, to be voted separately, as we have, I hope, a consensus on it. It was supported and made at a previous meeting in the Commission, so that all MPs can clearly express their vote. 2 to be voted separately by the others, if I am clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u91	§ 5 has seven points in the version of the Commission. You're suggesting a t. 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 simultaneously vote, and only that. 2 to vote separately, is that it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u92	You understand me very precisely, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u93	Thank you. Editorial proposals are also for t. 2. I'm voting § 5, t. 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 in their version of the Commission report. They voted 134 MPs: 118, against 12, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 in the version of the report of the Commission there is an editorial proposal made by Mrs. Bachvarova. We vote on Mrs. Bachvarova's proposal. They voted 132 MPs: 29, against 45, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I'm putting it to the vote now. 2 in the version of the Commission report on the additional report. Vote 138 MPs: 119, against 18, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. For a negative vote, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against this text not because I dispute the need to create research universities, but because, under the section of the Research University,... [[Noise and lines.]] No, no, no, that's exactly what was discussed. I want to tell you what happens next. Once this issue has been brought into the Committee on Education at the last minute, it has assembled a majority and adopted it, entrusts the Council of Ministers with the opportunity to define the criteria for such universities, they should be re-established. This means that under the slogan, you want to bypass the mandates for the leaders. So I warn you what your research intention is in texts that are contained in the provisions discussed just now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u95	Honourable Members, on the proposal from our fellow Patriotic Front, we have voted separately. We had one vote in which we voted all the points without a second, then we also had a vote on the point. 2. It is pointless for me to vote all of § 5. But since I see that there are such attitudes in this House, I am voting the entire § 5, which is a little logicless, as the first points are supported. [[Heckling]] I put it to the vote already because you raised the issue from the ground up. We vote the entire § 5 along with all his seven points, which have been adopted by our decision. [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] We've already released him. There's a reaction from the gym. They voted 111 MPs: 96 against 14, abstention 1. Paragraph 5 has been accepted. Dear colleagues, the exhibition of the immortality of the Bulgarian spirit will be opened in the northern lobby. It presents the hair, altar, dagger and letters of Vasil Levski, the clock, original photographs of Botev, the flag of the Knuckle reading. The exhibition is on the occasion of 143 years since the hanging of Vasil Levski, marking this year 140 years of the April Uprising and the destruction of Botev. Citizens can see the exhibition on February 20th on the day of the open doors of parliament. This is on Saturday, from 10:00 to 17.00 p.m. All MPs are invited to the holiday for the opening of the exhibition. I'm calling a break till 12:00 a.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u96	Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the National Assembly, the time for rest is over. Mrs. Damyanova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u97	Madam President, honourable Members! Once again, we return to the Basic Report, p. 10. Paragraph 5. Proposal from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal, which is reflected in its respective systematic place in § 26. Proposal from the MP Borislav Borisov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 1 and 2. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 3. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Stefan Zhelev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 8 at the end of the year is added for education and/or training in the Master's degree; (b) c. 9 after the words "lifelong learning', the provision or acquisition of the country concerned shall be added and after the words "the opening of its units abroad' shall be added in accordance with the legislation of the State concerned. (c) c. 12 words.............................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing (d) shall be established. 14 and 15: It's 14 years old. right to conduct business related to the main activity of the university under art. 6, para. 1 and the realization of the research results and objects of intellectual property created by it; 15. right of association with other persons, as well as the establishment of commercial companies for the purpose of the economic realization of results of research and intellectual property objects, with own funds under art. 90, para. 3, p. 4 and para. 6, under conditions and by order laid down by an act of the Council of Ministers. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The higher schools receiving an institutional accreditation assessment from 8.00 to 10.00 shall be entitled, following a decision of the academic board, to carry out training in exchange for payment in the educational and qualification degree of the Bachelor and in the degree of qualification of the Master after acquired secondary education in specialties from professional fields and from the regulated professions which they received in the programme accreditation assessment from 8.00 to 10.00. The admission of students for training in exchange for payment shall be carried out in accordance with the order of art. 68, and their number shall be outside the limits laid down in art. 9, para. 3, p. 6 point (a) and point (b) and within the limits of the definitions laid down in art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3, p. 1 capacity of the relevant professional direction or capacity of the relevant speciality of the regulated professions, but not more than 5 per cent of it................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The training shall be carried out under conditions laid down in the rules of activity of the higher school and with a contract between the students and/or the legal person of the consumer under para. 1, t. 8 and the higher education; 3. In para. 3 all over the words "from 6.00" shall be replaced by "from 8.00" and after the word "Students" shall be added............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1, t. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union: 4. A new para is being created. 7. The right to open their departments abroad has higher schools that have received an assessment in institutional accreditation from 9.00 to 10.00, and the training in them can be done only in specialties from professional fields and/or specialties from regulated professions that have received an assessment in programme accreditation from 9.00 to 10.00. 5. The creation of para. 8. The right to provide education franchise abroad has higher education schools that have received an assessment in institutional accreditation from 9.00 to 10.00 only in specialties from professional fields and/or specialties from regulated professions that have received an assessment in programme accreditation from 9.00 to 10.00. The educational franchise is granted only to accredited universities under the legislation of the country concerned, where no less than 80 percent of the education abroad is carried out entirely according to the educational plans, curricula and methodical instruction guidelines adopted by the Bulgarian higher school, which provides no less than 50 percent of the teaching staff, leading the educational franchise process, and issues the diploma for higher education. 6. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u98	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. The proposals by Members of the National Assembly shall in principle be supported by the Commission or withdrawn. There are no proposals not supported by the Commission. I shall put to the vote § 6 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 72 MPs: 69, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, on the balcony of the National Assembly is the Children's Radio Choir at the Bulgarian National Radio. Let's say hello! A little while ago, once again, they attracted our attention with their unique performances. [[(The People's Representatives are up. (Applause)]] Continue, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u99	According to § 6 a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Borislav Veliev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 6, which becomes § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. The 3th sentence first is finally added as well as when the university converts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u100	Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Here we continue the topic discussed before the break, which affects the consequences of the transformation of higher schools into research. I say again: an idea and a proposal that really has a basis, and in the case of proper realization will increase the scientific capacity of scientific institutions and will create more opportunities to support those of them who develop serious, besides teaching, teaching and research. However, I have noted that the votes § 5 of the Additional Report give the impression that these educational institutions are becoming new after transformation. In fact, the question arises: what will be the fate of their governing bodies? Now § 7 with the supplement gives a certain explanation because it says that the transformation of the higher school does not interrupt the term of office of its governing bodies. This is a logical and understandable protection which enables the initiated mandate of rectors, academic councils and so on to be continued until its expiry. Although they have been elected as heads of the higher school, they will now continue to be heads of these research institutions. However, a distinction must be made between the terms....interruption....and the terms..stopping.......................................................................................................... I repeat: this text correctly gives protection to the already selected governing bodies. However, nowhere is the question of what happens if these governing bodies, one of them decides of his own free will to terminate his term of office. Then they will invoke the adopted law, because there is no other one I have found a provision that specifically regulates the effects of the transformation. They will say that they are already applying for management plows at another higher education institution and from here are starting to run entirely new mandates. Such cases have occurred in the past years in the transformation of higher education institutions. There are perhaps few interested parties who saw such personal opportunities for themselves in the legal amendments adopted. However, I fear and warn that this practice can become contagious in many of the announced research universities then begin attempts to select guides at the initiative of those who want to start such mandates from the beginning. I say this without prejudice and any bias in relation to one person or another, whether positive or negative. The management of educational institutions should be understood more as managing administrative activities, of course, by people with high authority as lecturers and scientists, and not as trying to feudalise management activities, which in very few cases seems to give the real pathos for seeking such positions. I therefore appeal to the Commission and to the Deputy Minister to take this matter into consideration so that there is no doubt that these texts carry out other objectives, not clearly declared and declared. The Commission should propose to us in the Transitional and Final Provisions a separate provision that states that, upon termination of the mandates, they continue to be counted according to the way they started, to avoid this, I would call it an elegant circumvention of the Law. Maybe to some people this matter seems sideways, too casual, but if there is a serious and well-meaning attitude, I expect to get an answer to the question. Otherwise, I will be convinced that under the slogan for research universities, attempts have been ongoing, which have been going on for many months, to solve certain people's problems, and now others to take advantage of the possibility of the newly adopted regulations. Madam President, I expect Deputy Minister Denkov, the President of the Commission or its members to express their views on this matter. In my opinion, it is very real and requires that we find a solution in what the Commission is proposing to us. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I also understand that some of the changes have been made at the last moment and too quickly. Maybe they didn't notice it. Let them give information on this as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u102	Any lines to Mr. Stoilov? Here you go, Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u103	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Mr. Deputy Minister! Dear Mr. Stoilov, I fully agree with your concern. We are all aware that the proposed amendments to the Law on Higher Education will not solve the main problem of higher education, but are trying to solve a piece of certain problems in certain universities. The problem is that most of these changes were not in line with the strategy adopted by this National Assembly. We are now facing the problem that it needs to be updated. What you said, I mentioned it to Minister Kuneva the evening before we expressed our support. Bulgarian higher education needs a brand new Law on higher education, because with the changes we make today, however good they may be, however good the intentions may be, we end up making even more contradictions, gaps with other norms in the same Law. If I may, a procedure to the President: if you could remind your colleagues of their obligations under the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, because in the debate, every MP expresses his opinion, but I believe that some of his colleagues also have a private interest and should remove themselves from the debate and from the vote. I don't think that was done.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u104	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. My fellow Members, I invite you, if you have a conflict of interest in this debate concerning the Law, to declare it from the stands. Let's move on. Any other lines? Here you are, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoilov, you said this was about elegant circumvention. Nothing like that, it's a feudalization of certain universities or a certain university. Dear colleagues, I will open a clamp. I don't comment on personalities, I don't comment on universities. At the moment, however, there is a Rector of a Medical University who does not recognise the Constitution of Bulgaria and the laws. He's out of time as Rector, the guy's standing by while he's baking his pita, and right now we all have to deal with amendments to the Law so he can make two more terms. Praised, as they say! Is that why we're here in this National Assembly?! What are we going to explain to the rest of the Rectors and dozens of vouses in the country? I draw attention: all held general meetings, all the rectors accounted for, made their own choices. But this Rector doesn't want an election. No elections, no democracy, no feudalization. This is the second case since the Svishtov case, for which we are responsible. Dear colleague Stoilov, and the Educational Commission here is its chairman, and the entire Commission, and the Ministry of Education to be fully aware that if this amendment is adopted, it is a severe blow to democratic principles in the academic community. I don't know if you've heard of those who have had the opportunity to attend universities, but at least I haven't heard I've been to Cambridge and Oxford. They're not called science universities. What will a university be called doesn't matter. What matters is what scientific production there is. Both worldly and superworldly to be called, the result is still the same. Colleague Stoilov, I conclude with the following: honourable colleagues, let us not blame democratic principles in the academic development of the Republic of Bulgaria! This text must not be accepted! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u106	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. Third line? There aren't any. Mr. Stoilov, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u107	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Kenov, I have no problem saying that I have no conflict of interest, even though I am in teaching. We are talking here about settling a matter that concerns the management of higher schools. I do not even claim that some of the supporters of this text can be formally blamed in conflict of interest within the meaning of the Law, but I am not sure that they do not actually protect foreign private interests on the subject. And without entering into such a formal contradiction, lobbyists find themselves in their capacity as lawmakers to settle personal issues. At least until the text that I am lacking is proposed remains a reasonable doubt for all institutions that are involved in the preparation and adoption of these texts. With regard to the note of my colleague Gechev, I share your qualification that such provisions can deepen feudalization in the management of certain higher schools, but my qualification remains with a generally elegant circumvention of the Law due to lack of explicit regulations. In other words, I do not underestimate the heavy end result that you have noted, but it is becoming more perfidious and invisible to the general audience. Maybe he'll be quickly understood by academics. In this case, I refrain from discussing the issue that concerns one or two leaders, because it is not my desire to blame any of them or to defend others. But there is also a worse result that this will no longer serve one, two or three who may have seen opportunities in change. This, unfortunately, can move a number of other leaders to use this example and by voluntary termination of their current mandates to take advantage of the lack of regulation and the changes that are being made. And let me not be a bad prophet.. probably we will be witnesses of people who are currently in the course of their second management mandate, so that they can make one or two more mandates to submit their resignations to the academic community, believing that they currently have enough broad support, and say:..We apply completely again for new mandates of other already educational institutions........................................................ the students are the same, students are the same, the same study halls are the same, research activities are the same, but they suddenly become new and everything starts again. This is the most risky result of the provision to be adopted. And not so much since the adoption of this provision, because I don't dispute it, it has its place. The point is that the other one is missing, which does not allow the termination of the mandate in order to begin the countdown of the new term. This is what I expect from the representatives of the Ministry and the Commission to offer it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u108	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Any other speeches? Associate Professor Velikov on proposals and edited § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I would like to protect this proposal, as it has not been changed in the last month, it has long been there and if the honourable Mr. Stoilov had something in mind, he could safely between first and second reading give proposals. I must also mention that I am pleased to monitor the debates and the slight contradictions I see between the speeches of the respected Assoc. Stoilov and the respected Professor. Gechev. I have to tell you, as far as other MPs would be concerned, that Assoc. Stoylov is better focused on the problem. In addition, I thank him that he does not question the new type of university, the research universities as something needed for our higher education, economic growth and at all for our country. In this sense he clearly said, and I thank him, to accept the proposal for changes in art. 24, para. 3 that in practice he has nothing against him, unlike Prof. Gechev. Whether any changes should be made Stoylov or not will decide the court. Personally, I don't think that's necessary at this point. Furthermore, its proposal should rather refer to art. 31, than to the present article. 24. He as an excellent lawyer will probably share the same opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u110	Thank you, Assoc. Gorgeous. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote, honourable Members. We are voting unsupported by the Commission a text of the importer and the Commission's proposal for the version of § 6, which becomes § 7. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 101 MPs: 95 against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u111	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected. Under § 8 there is a proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova, made in accordance with Article 8. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Borislav Veliev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following 1. In para. 1 sentence 3 is created: "If necessary and after a decision of the academic board on individual specialties, the habilitated persons can read and not less than 50 percent of the lecture courses. 2. In para. 8, p. 2 point (s) is amended as follows: (a) projects for the establishment, transformation or closure of departments serving units and departments of the higher school abroad, where training in the specialties of the professional fields and specialties of regulated professions is provided by the academic staff of the faculty; (b) projects for the establishment, transformation or closure of departments serving units and departments of the higher school abroad, where training in the specialties of the professional fields and specialties of the regulated professions is provided by the academic staff of the faculty; (c) projects for the establishment, transformation or closure of the departments of the higher school abroad, where training in the specialties of the professional fields and the specialties of the regulated professions is provided by the academic staff of the faculty;
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u112	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I propose that we vote on an unsupported text of the importer and a proposal from the Commission § 7 be rejected and, at the same time, the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 8. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u113	According to § 9 there is a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska. The Commission does not support the proposal: In § 9, Art. 26b, para 1, t. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Proposal from the MP Borislav Borisov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26b the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: In the course of their research activities, persons holding academic positions of a basic employment contract in the institutes may also carry out academic activities under this contract up to 50 per cent of the regulations on academic employment in the relevant specialities assigned to the faculty of the higher school. 2. The creation of para. 3: The Academic Council of the Higher School may entrust the Institute with the conduct of training in specialities corresponding to its research profile, which shall be provided by not less than 7-member academic staff of a basic contract of employment at the Institute. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u114	Thank you. Paragraph 9 statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are going to vote. Firstly, we support a proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 97 MPs: 10, against 1, abstention 86. The offer is not accepted. We are voting in favour of the importer and accordingly edited by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The paragraph has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u115	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28, para. 2 the words "or converted' shall be deleted. Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 6 the final report shall be added at the end of the term of office. 2. In para. 2 the words "supplier' shall be replaced by an additional agreement to the basic contract of employment under art. 119 and
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u116	Thank you. Statements under § 10, 11 and 12? I won't. My fellow Members, I am voting on the Commission's proposals for § 10 for a new § 11 and a new § 12. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u117	According to § 11, there is a proposal from the MP Borislav Borisov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. On the basis of art. 81, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly the proposal has not been discussed and voted by the committee. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 words and annually offers to the Minister of Education and Science the number of accepted students and PhD students under art. 9, para. 3, p. 6 letters "a" and "b" are replaced by "a" annually states, respectively offers to the Minister of Education and Science the number of students and PhD students under art. 9, para. 3, p. 6 letters.................................................................................................... 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10, point (b) is inserted after the words "abroad" (including departments of higher schools abroad). 3. A t is created. 17: Seventeen. Takes a decision on association with other persons, as well as on the establishment of commercial companies for the purpose of carrying out the results of research and intellectual property objects, under the conditions and in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Act under art. 21, para. 1, t. 15. According to § 12 there is a proposal from the MP Borislav Borisov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 14: ............................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1 is amended as For rector, dean and director of a branch or college, habilitated persons working on a basic contract at the university shall be selected. An agreement shall be concluded with the elected Rector in accordance with art. 29, para. 2 and the elected dean and director of a subsidiary or college shall be entered into a corresponding agreement under art. 32, para. 1, t. 3. A proposal from the MP Stephanie Mihaylova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3 a further agreement under art. 3 is finally added with the elected dean and director of a branch or college. 119 and 107 of the Labour Code. (b) c. 5 after the word "public" a comma shall be placed and added to the website of the higher school. 2. The creation of para. 3: At the beginning of his term of office, the Rector shall present a mandate programme to be adopted by the Academic Council and at the end of the term of office shall provide the General Assembly with a report for the entire management period. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u118	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members, under paragraphs 13 to 16 inclusive? Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to object to the proposals made in § 13. In a previous paragraph, you have determined that universities can create commercial companies. These companies may be with natural and legal persons. How will this company be established? Is it possible to participate in advocacy contributions? Is it possible to participate in capital? Nowhere has been specified and there is a huge gap in this matter further. But if this trading company leads to the fact that the autonomous universities that have exclusive state ownership have bankrupted this trading company, who is responsible? You say the Academic Council because he has made a decision. However, the Academic Council has many other functions, other than commercial and economic, of the relevant university. Imagine a case that existed at the end of 2000. A commercial company is being made with an ad hoc contribution of the Institute. This commercial company takes credit and disappears as an activity after one year, but this credit is sufficient reason for the bank to collect the relevant building with which the institute was involved in an advance contribution. It's gonna work out the same way. I guarantee it! Because you're not limiting or telling me what the rules are for trading companies. In Bulgaria there is a Law on Public-Private Partnership, which is very bad, does not work and so on. Excuse me, if they have to make commercial companies, whether they are universities or institutes, they have to obey this Law. How is the Academic Council going to accept the establishment of commercial companies? I suggest a t. 3 to be voted on separately and indeed the collective responsibility to be taken down by those who believe that through the trading company the relevant university will prosper. For me, this is a problem that will come out at the first trading companies. Believe me, because this is what experience in Bulgaria shows. And who's going to protect this university property? It's not clear! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u120	Thank you. You made a procedural proposal. 3 of Paragraph 13 of the Commission shall be voted on separately. I'll put it to the vote. If the House agrees, we'll do it. Are there any lines to that statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go. Mrs. Todorova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mrs. Bachvarova! Further on in the Law, I think in art. I didn't have time to check it, it's regulated that they would be created by their own means. It is then regulated that the Council of Ministers by decree will establish how to create them. So there is no legal void, just pay attention to the text in the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u122	- What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, we are voting on the proposed procedural proposal § 13, proposed on a proposal from the Commission, i.e. 3 in this paragraph on a proposal from Prof. Bachvarova to vote separately. Please vote on a proposal for a separate vote by Mrs. Bachvarova. They voted 101 MPs: 15 against 38, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote, respectively, on a proposal from the Commission for the revision of § 11, which becomes § 13; the version of § 12, which becomes § 14; the creation of a new § 15 and supported by the Commission text of the importer for § 13, which becomes § 16. Please vote on a proposal from the Commission for the proposed four paragraphs from 13 to 16 inclusive. Vote 95 MPs: 86 against 7, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u123	Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. On the basis of art. 81, para. 2 sentence 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the proposal has not been discussed and voted by the Commission. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Borislav Veliev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: A educational process can also be conducted in a branch of higher schools abroad, opened under this Law, where training in the specialties of the professional fields and specialties of regulated professions is provided by the academic staff of the relevant faculty.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u124	Thank you. Statements on the paragraph? I can't see. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 17. They voted 102 MPs: for 100, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We now proceed to the Additional Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u125	That's right, Mr. Chairman. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. On the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence of the third sentence of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal has not been discussed and voted by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. 5 words................................................................................. 17, para. 6 and 7 and 7 shall be replaced by the following: 17,
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u126	Statements on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 18? I can't see. We move on to a vote, honourable Members, from the Additional Report. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 18. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u127	Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. On the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence of the third sentence of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal has not been discussed and voted on in the Commission. Again a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov, which is also based on art. 81, para. The second sentence of the Rules of Procedure has not been discussed and voted on in the Commission. Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph after the renumbering of the Additional Report, in fact this becomes a new § 19. This is for information of the Financial Texts: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 1 is created t. 6: It's six. to promote the results of own research, of the achievements of world science in the relevant major areas of science.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u128	You read...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u129	I'm reading the text from the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u130	To create what paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u131	The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 1 is created t. 6: It's six. to promote the results of own research and the achievements of world science in the relevant major areas of science. After the renumbering of the Additional Report, this must be § 19. I'm guessing that's gonna cover this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u132	Okay, we are now commenting on the proposal to create a new § 18. We have three supporters from the Commission, one unsupported, Mr. Veliv? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u133	No! We're looking at page 22. We have two proposals by the National Representative Ivan Stankov, who, because they are outside the scope of the laws adopted at first reading, are not subject to a vote. We are looking at the main report pages 22 and 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u134	Then we have a proposal from Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u135	No, it's the Commission's!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u136	I'm on a page. Is it 23? Is that from the main report? [[Noise and lines.]] All we have is a proposal to create a new paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u137	That's right.................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u138	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 18, honourable Members. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u139	Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. On the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence of the third sentence of the Rules of Procedure, the proposal has not been discussed and voted on in the Commission. And another proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov, which, on the same basis, has not been discussed and voted in the Commission. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, which is: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man .... 13a.............................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 64a: Art. 64a. (1) Higher schools may establish centres of excellence. (2) Higher schools, either alone or with other educational and scientific organisations, may create associations for the implementation of scientific products in practice. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 14, which becomes § 19. Again, it must be renumbered as § 20 of the Final Texts. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 20 which becomes § 21: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73, para. 1 is created t. 11: "11." select a representative at the General Assembly of the National Representation of Student Councils, which may be different for each meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u140	Statements, honourable Members, referred to in paragraphs 13, 14 by importer and under § 20? Are there any speeches? I won't. Voting mode. First, we vote unsupported by the Commission a proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 13a. We are voting on a proposal not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 14 against 34, 42 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting together in support of the Commission's introduction to § 14, which becomes § 19, and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 20. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u141	Paragraph 15. Proposal by the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev: In § 15, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: 4, new para. 5 in art. 73a, the negative particle.. not...................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the National Representative Georg Georgiev, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 21 (edition after the renumberment § 22): .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The National Representation of Student Councils consists of student councils of higher schools in the country. 2. A new para is being created. 3, 4 and 5: The management bodies of the National Representation shall be the General Assembly, the Executive Board and the Chair. The President of the National Representation of Student Councils shall represent and direct its activities in accordance with the decisions of the General Assembly and the Executive Board. (4) Members of the Executive Board and the President of the National Representation shall be elected with a term of two years entitled to be re-elected for another term, irrespective of the transfer to another educational degree or to another higher school. The conditions and procedure for choosing in the management bodies under para. 3 as well as for the early release of the members of the Executive Board and the President of the National Representation shall be defined in the Rules of Procedure and the organisation of the National Representation of Student Councils, which shall be adopted by the General Assembly. (5) Each student council shall have one vote in the General Assembly. The President of the General Assembly shall be appointed alternately by law as the representative of the student council of the university where the relevant meeting is held. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 6 and amended as follows: The National Representation of Student Councils is a legal entity. The revenue of its budget shall be made up of: 1. subsidy from the state budget of 0.03 per cent of the funds to support the training under art. Reg. 91, para. 1, t. 1; 2. additional funds from the budgets of the student councils on a project basis; 3. proceeds from donations, sponsorship and other sources eligible by the legislation in force. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 7 and is amended as follows: The National Representation of Student Councils: 1. make opinions and proposals on the problems of higher education and science in higher schools concerning the students in them; 2. give opinions on the draft state budget in its part on education and science; 3. assist and encourage the inclusion of learners in educational, scientific, cultural, sports and other activities carried out between higher schools in the country and abroad; 4. annually publishes on its official website its budget and a detailed report on the expenditure incurred. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 8 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 9 and in it after the word........ is added at least once every two years............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 7. The creation of para. 10: The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1).
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u142	Thank you. Statements under § 15 by importer? I don't see anyone who wants to. First, I put to the vote an unsupported proposal by the Commission by the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev. Please vote unsupported by the Commission on a proposal. Vote 95 MPs: 15 against 41, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members, we vote on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for § 15, which becomes § 21. Vote 91 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u143	Paragraph 16. Proposal by MP Milen Mihov and MP Julian Angelov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 16 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u144	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting unsupported by the Commission, and we are proposing that § 16 be rejected. They voted 93 MPs: 88, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. And now we're going to the Additional Report?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u145	Prior to this proposal by the National Representative Ivan Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u146	I admit this report is a huge puzzle, but so far we're doing well on the paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u147	I think we're doing just fine at this point. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Stankov on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 sentence third of the Rules. The proposal has not been discussed and voted by the Commission. And now we're going to the Additional Report. Proposal by the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs for the creation of § 16a. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Borislav Veliev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 6: (a) In the case of the conversion of specialized university to a higher school under art. 17, para. 4 and a report containing an assessment of the fulfilment of the requirements of art. 17, para. 4 t. 2. b) A sentence second is created: "In cases of transformation of a higher school under art. 17, para. 2 or 3 in university under art. 17, para. 4, the procedure for assessing a transformation project shall be opened on the basis of a report containing an assessment of compliance with the requirements of art. 17, para. 4 t. 2. 2. The creation of para. 10: (b) The assessment under para. 6 for the fulfilment of the requirements of art. 17, para. 4 t. 2 shall be carried out on the basis of objective indicators involving a number of published and referred scientific articles in international databases, a number of applications for international patents, a number of quotations in reference and indexed journals by other authors in international databases, by criteria, under conditions and by order determined by the act under art. 17, para. 4 t. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u148	Statements under this paragraph? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 23, as set out in the Additional Report. Vote 89 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. And now we're back to the main report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u149	We're going back to the main report. According to § 17 there is a proposal from the MP Borislav Borisov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Stephanie Mihaylova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 22 and after renumbering shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u150	That's gonna happen somewhere in the future, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u151	Yeah, in the final lyrics. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 90 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. A sentence 2 first after the words "high school" is added which is published, including on the website of the higher school. 2. In para. 3, p. 4. In point (a), the words of the industrial property rights, copyrights and other related rights shall be replaced by the words "of intellectual property rights" as well as by business related to the main activity of the higher school under art. 6, para.1 and the realization of his research results and other objects of intellectual property. (b) in letter (b) the words (c) 21, para. 2, 3, 5 and 7 21, para. Two, three, five and nine. 3. In para. 5 after the word "Supreme" is a comma and is added to the website of the higher school.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u152	Statements? I won't. We are voting in the version of § 17, which, on a proposal from the Commission, becomes § 22. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We're back on the Extra Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u153	On the supplementary report. Under § 18 there is a proposal from the National Representative Snezana Dukova, made in accordance with Article 18. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of § 18, which becomes § 25 (there is a technical error written is § 23): ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 91 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2, p. 1 the words......................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 3, p. 2 words.............................................................................. 9, para. 3, p. 6 point (c) shall be replaced by point (c) of the first subparagraph. 9, para. 3, p. 6 letter................................................................................. 3. A new para is being created. 4 and 5. The funds referred to in para. 1, t. 1 includes additional funding for training in priority professional fields and specialties defined by the Council of Ministers. (5) The maintenance of the training of students adopted in accordance with art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3, p. 1, para. 5 and 6 in state universities shall be provided with funds from the state budget in accordance with the Act under para. 2, p. 1. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 7 and in it, c. c. 1 words.............................................................................. 21, para. 2, 3, 5 and 7 21, para. Two, three, five and nine. 6. Previously on AMC's... 6, 7 and 8 become respectively. 8, 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u154	Statements? I won't. We are voting for a proposal from the Commission in the Additional Editorial Report of § 18, which becomes § 25 and, at the same time, correcting the technical error of § 25 and not § 23. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u155	Under § 19 there is a proposal from Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 1. The Commission shall support the proposal referred to in points 2 and 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 26: In Art. 26, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 91a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The funds referred to in art. Reg. 91, para. 1, t. 2 shall be provided on the basis of an assessment of the scientific activity carried out on the basis of indicators of science or by an assessment of the artistic activity carried out on the basis of artistic achievements. The assessment, planning, distribution and spending of the funds from the state budget to finance the internal scientific or artistic activities of higher schools shall be carried out under conditions and by order set by the Council of Ministers. 2. In para. 3 words - Depending on the assessment carried out of the results of the scientific activity... Depending on the assessment under para................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The following points are
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u156	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the version of § 19 of the Additional Report, which becomes § 26 on a proposal from the Commission, by which we are finishing the Additional Report and returning to the main track. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: 69, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. You can see that there are paragraphs that are duplicated, but most likely in the Additional and Final Provisions you are numbering them correctly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u157	That's what happens in the final texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u158	We continue with § 18 of the Main Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u159	Moving on, this is on page 33 of the Main Report. .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 91b. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 25. It should be § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u160	But here we will vote it as § 25. Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's supporting text on § 20, which is now § 25. Vote 78 MPs: 70, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u161	A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. On the basis of art. 81, para. The second sentence of the third sentence of the Rules of Procedure has not been discussed and voted by the Commission. Under § 21, there is a proposal from Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: The following amendments and additions are made in § 21: 1. A new t. is created. 1: "1." In para. 3 and the expression "two thirds' is replaced by "one third'. 2. Points 1 "5" become points 2 "6" respectively. Proposal by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MPs Stefani Mihailova and Boyka Marinska, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 95 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4 after the words. 21, para. Article 2 (a) is amended as follows: 9, para. 3, p. 6 point (b). 2. A new para is being created. 5. The Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, may establish lower fees for the training of students and PhD students than those proposed by the state universities, provided that additional funding is provided for maintenance of the training under art. Reg. 91, para. 2, p. 3, para. 3, p. 3 and para. 4. 3. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and in it the words............................................................................................ 21, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 4. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7. 5. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 and amended as follows: In the case of foreign students, they shall pay fees which cannot be lower than the corresponding fees laid down in para. 4. Foreign PhD students and residents pay fees, the amount of which in state universities and organizations under art. 47, para. 1 shall not be lower than the differentiated standards for the maintenance of the training. 6. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9. 7. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 10 and in it the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 8. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 11 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 9. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u162	Thank you. Statements under § 21 by importer? Professor Bachvarova, you have an unsupported proposal. You've got a statement. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, our proposal is related to the reduction of fees for students from two thirds, which is now foreseen to a third. Our motives for this proposal are as follows. Each year nearly 10,000. Bulgarian students go to study abroad. According to statistics, which counted for students outside the country, they are already around 60 thousand. Given that these students go without paying fees, they have scholarships, and they also have the opportunity to work part-time. At the same time in Bulgaria students who are worried financially, including because of the fees, cannot afford to continue education. I believe that this is a gesture that we should also do to universities because, agree, there is no way in the media pages to publish publications and advertisements every day about how we accept Bulgarian students and what specialties, but not to pay attention to the fees, which are unfortunately high for the majority of those who want to follow in Bulgaria. At least help as much as we can with the fees. Our proposal is indeed a reduction in fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u164	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. Honourable Members, we are voting on a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 76 MPs: 17 against 24 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 21, which becomes 26. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u165	Paragraph 22 - Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Borislav Veliev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: Paragraph 4 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In para. 3 After the words "abroad abroad" "Authorised professional directions" or specialties from regulated professions in their departments abroad" shall be added. 2. A new para is being created. 4. The branch of the higher school abroad under art. 9, para. 3, p. 3 is not an independent unit. It shall carry out training in accredited professional fields or specialties from regulated professions of the academic staff of the relevant main unit of the university. The management of the unit shall be carried out by the management bodies of the relevant higher education unit. 3. The creation of para. 5. The material and technical base of the branch of the higher school abroad is part of the material and technical base necessary to ensure the training of the relevant accredited professional directions or specialties of regulated professions and research activities of the higher school. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u166	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 22 by importer, which shall become § 27 in the Commission report and in the version of the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 68 against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u167	Paragraph 23? a proposal from the National Representative Boyka Marinska. The Commission does not support the proposal: In § 23 of § 4e, t. 1 of the Additional Provisions 3.......................................................................................................................... The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In § 4e of the additional provisions are set up t. 9 and 10: Nine. The professional priorities are the professional directions for which there is a prognosis of an increased need to prepare highly qualified specialists for the purpose of the economic and public development of the Republic of Bulgaria. 10. "Protected specialties" are specialties of higher education, for the training in which there is no stated interest or interest is low, but at a certain stage of the economic and public development of the Republic of Bulgaria there is a need to prepare highly qualified specialists for these specialties.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u168	Statements? I won't. I am voting on Mrs Marinska's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 11 against 3, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 23 by importer, which shall become § 28 in the report and in the version of the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u169	Proposal by the National Representative Boyka Marinska and the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Paragraph 4j shall be inserted in the additional provisions: ............................................................................... (1) During the academic year 2016-2017 the number of students under art. 9, para. 3, p. 6 point (b) is defined in professional directions and specialties of regulated professions for each state university as a difference between: 1. the number of students trained in professional fields and specialties of regulated professions for which the state provides support for their education, approved by the Council of Ministers for the academic year 2015-2016; 2. the established by the order of art. 9, para. 3, p. 6 (a) (b) For the 2016-2017 academic year, the number of students and PhD students trained. (2) In the validation of the number of accepted in professional fields and specialties of regulated professions in the state higher education schools students and PhD students under art. 9, para. 3, p. The number of students and PhD students under paragraph 6 (b) shall be taken into account for each school year. 1, t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 24 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u170	Colleagues, speeches on a new § 29 report? I won't. We are voting on the new § 29 in the version of the Commission report. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 24 of the importing Commission does not support the text of the importer, proposes to be rejected. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 85, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u171	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u172	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of the division of the Member State of transit and final provisions and § 25 by importer, supported entirely by the Commission, in a new numbering of § 30. We're voting Anblok. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstentioned 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u173	Under § 26, there is a proposal from the National Representative Borislav Veliev, made in accordance with Article 26. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 26, which becomes § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In the Law on Health (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 175, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "In departments of higher schools abroad can be conducted training on defined in the uniform state requirements under art. 177 courses.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u174	Statements? I won't. I vote on the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer and proposes a new version for § 26 with a new numbering 31. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 97 MPs: 87, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u175	Proposal from the MP Borislav Borisov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Small and Medium Enterprises Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 4, para. 7 shall be added at the end, except where the persons are higher schools or research centres. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 33. Under § 28, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 34: ................. Within two months of the entry into force of this Act, the National Representation of Student Councils shall bring its composition into line with the requirements of this Law. Proposal by the National Representative Boyka Marinska, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 35: .............................................................................. Within one year of the entry into force of this law, the higher schools under art. 17, para. 2, 3 and 4 create the system under art. 17, para. 2, p. 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u176	Statements? Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On a subject that we have already raised, I am not saying that we have led a discussion because there is no answer to the questions that we have taken, but I would like to propose an amendment such as § 35a. Before I read it and hand it over, I want to motivate it. The creation of research universities is no reason to change the principles and rules of mandate in the management bodies of higher education institutions. The vote or attitude to the text that we are proposing will show whether it really is true or not, because we have preserved with already voted provisions the possibility of rectors and members of other governing bodies to continue carrying out their mandates, regardless of the upcoming transformation into such universities. However, we have not decided the question: what is going on with the reporting of the existing mandates or those currently being implemented? It is therefore necessary, as § 35a, to adopt the following text: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. During the transformation of universities into research universities, account shall be taken of the time of the mandates of the management bodies, including the termination of mandates which have not expired. I'm not going to motivate the proposal anymore. It's clear what this is about. I think the adoption of this text is imperative because otherwise there would be emptiness in the Law, at the very least which would give reason to apply it differently and different guides to use the upcoming transformation of certain universities into research to circumvent the rules that exist. I hope for the majority's support on this text in order to follow the same principles and rules when introducing the relevant institutes. I am also using the case, I have already done this on other occasions, the wording of § 29 is unnecessary that the Law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. Allow those who write it and create it to study it for at least three days. There will be plenty of time for the establishment of regulations. This haste of such large amending laws to enter into the day of promulgation, there is no need to create excess overtime. These are my proposals, which, individually, I hope, will be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u178	Are you suggesting that we drop § 29 by importer?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u179	The last § 29 and before it enters § 35a, because I am moving along the current numbering, with the justified Final provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u180	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u181	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Stoilov! It's nice that you're doing this editing, but it's not an editorial amendment. There was therefore an additional point yesterday in the Commission meeting. If your colleagues or you wanted to make such an amendment in substance, you could have made it to the Commission so that it could be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u182	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u183	Ms. Damyanova, I am aware that my proposal is somewhat beyond editorial changes, but it is a consequence of what the Commission did yesterday, and I think it is appropriate to allow this issue, if it is not to be voted on at the moment, to be seriously discussed. And if your line was.. since I am not a member of the Education Committee, I cannot guess what will happen at each of its meetings, this is the only opportunity to react and find a framework for a real question... So the only correct reaction on your part is to say that this transcends editorial proposals, but you are committed to presenting it to the Commission's attention and you are proposing today not to vote on the closing provisions, because on the contrary it means looking for formal reasons to push certain interests that have nothing to do with what is advertised as the objective of the Law. So that's my answer to your line. And any other position in which you do not engage in substance, but seek only procedural ways to react to the proposal, shows that you lobby, again I say, for decisions setting up certain people opening up new opportunities to circumvent the principle of mandate in the management of higher education institutions. This is the conclusion you will have after your vote, if you, again, do not engage. That is why I am giving you another procedural opportunity, Madam President. If you want the Commission to discuss the version I propose, let us vote to postpone the transitional provisions and tomorrow they can also be presented with an opinion from the Commission. So we treat the topics very seriously and constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u184	Mr. Kanev has the floor to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u185	Madam President, honourable Members! First, I would like to support the proposal made by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. I believe that it can be considered as editorial in so far as it fills a clear emptiness in the Law. The truth is that this issue with the current revision of the Law simply remains unanswered. I have long sought in the Law an answer to the question, and the only thing I see is emptiness. Mr. Stoilov suggests that it be filled. If the will of the MPs who support the Law is to fill it in this sense, that is, to exclude the possibility of electing rectors for more than two mandates in the future, thanks to the amendments to the Law, it should be voted on. Everything else means that we deliberately leave a void, and from now on we start disputes, lawsuits. We have no doubt that some of these people will struggle to use this emptiness. This means universities to go to court, to deal with the Ministry an ugly and harmful scene. And one more thing in relation to § 34.. a new 28 under the old version of the Law. There is no reason why I see the national representation of student councils not to earn its term under the old law, as is normal practice with certain exceptions, and to change its composition within two months. The heavy, bitter taste remains that this thing is done to get rid of certain people, then in their place to assist the choice of others. Notice, not a dispute on the substance of the Law, the amendments adopted there are not bad in this part, but in respect of the termination of the mandate of the current national representation. In this sense, I do not know whether Mr. Stoilov has made a procedure for examining the Transitional and Final Provisions on the next day, but either I support his proposal and I strongly oppose § 34 a new one by saying that I am voting against the argument, or I am in favour of voting on another day in order to clear these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u186	Replices to Mr. Kanev? I won't. To speak the word has Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u187	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to ask you to vote in a way that has respected our country's academic traditions for many decades, honourable Members! Believe me, there's nothing political about it. I am among colleagues who know very well educational systems both in Europe and outside Europe and in Bulgaria. If we do not make this editorial note, it will turn out that the whole dandy was not to stimulate budgetary research universities, for which I am in principle a teacher and researcher. Let's stimulate the best universities. But we will keep the suspicion that all we are doing right now, these paragraphs that we are reading for two hours, are actually to remain some people like feudals, to pharaohize the Bulgarian universities, so that these divisions, these commercial companies, this distribution of public procurement funds... It's most likely that some people have negotiated it. So listen to me.. emphatically.... to the violation of the long-term academic traditions in our country. Let the other clauses remain, let us stimulate the universities, but not the pharaohitism of the Bulgarian universities! We have traditions. As good as a rector is, there are elections, two terms, and new people are elected. No one's irreplaceable. So, with this, I conclude that we do not violate the academic traditions of creating chaos in the Bulgarian academic system. This is the only thing left to destroy in the end, so that we can qualify no longer in the European Union, because if this amendment is not adopted, we open wide the doors for corruption in higher education institutions!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u188	Any lines to Mr. Gechev? I won't. Any other MPs? They don't want to take part in the debate. We're closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Under the voting rules, I must first put to the vote a motion to drop a text. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov proposed that § 29 by importer, which is § 36 by the report, namely................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Voting mode. They voted 98 MPs: 36, against 25, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. The next is a procedural proposal by Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, who proposed a postponement of the vote on the reported paragraphs in order to enable the Commission to discuss his proposal made in the Chamber. Voting mode. They voted 102 MPs: 38, against 26, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u189	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u190	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u191	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I propose a re-voting procedure with a request not to turn the entire Bulgarian higher education into the principle on which the management of Svishtov University was built. If you'd like to go to the destabilization of the entire education, support this thing. After all, we're trying to do something positive, aren't we? Is this what we're going to do with the reform with the life-saving mandates of several rectors who have turned the VUMs into private domains? There was talk of pharaohs here. This is ridiculous! You and I have mandates, the president has two mandates! This is ridiculous! On what principle will we base ourselves on adopting these amendments? On what principle?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u192	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u193	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u194	It's a re-vote. They voted 102 MPs: 45 against 19, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u195	Bravo, bravo! [[(National Representative Valeri Zhablyanov applauded:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u196	I put to the vote Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal to create a new § 35a with the content he reports. I'll try to decipher it from his manuscript. [[Replices from GERB's SG to the left part of the hall.]] It doesn't matter that they don't keep track of what's voted on. During the conversion of universities into research universities, account is taken of the time of the mandates of the managing bodies, including in the event of termination of mandates, which have not expired. This is Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal for a new § 35a. We vote. They voted 102 MPs: 41, Against 9, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on paragraphs 27 to 29, including, respectively, paragraphs 33 to 36 in the version and on the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 73 against 11, abstention 10. The proposals were adopted, and with this the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Higher Education Act was adopted at second reading. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u197	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the period for proposals between the first and second reading of the bill for non-profit legal entities should be extended by three weeks, i.e. the deadline should be maximum.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u198	The maximum permissible by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u199	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u200	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Danail Kirilov's procedural proposal to extend the maximum permissible by the Rules for proposals between first and second readings on the bill for non-profit legal entities. Vote 94 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The parliamentary control message is next.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-18.u201	1. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer four questions from the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Svetoslav Belemezov, Svetla Bachvarova, Georgi Gokov and Atanas Merdjanov and 1 question from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva will answer six questions from the MPs Antoni Trenchev, Slavi Binev, Boris Stanimirov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Borislav Iglev, Atanas Merdjanov. 3. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer eight questions from the MPs Slavi Binev, Tasco Ermenkov, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; Georgi Svilenski and Emil Raynov; Mihail Mikov and Filip Popov [[two questions]] ; Vili Lilkov, Petar Slavov and Slavcho Atanasov. 4. The Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski will answer a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev. 5. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer five questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov; Emil Raynov and Chavdar Georgiev [[two questions]] ; Dimitar Tanev and Tasco Ermenkov and one question from the MP Slavi Binev. 6. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer nine questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Kircho Karagyov; Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov [[three questions]] ; Zhelyo Boychev, Slavi Binev, Georgi Bojinov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Ivan Kirilov Ivanov and Georgi Kadiev. 7. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 18 questions from MPs Manol Genov [[three questions]] , Dzhevdet Chakarov, Mihail Mikov, Yavor Haytov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Georgi Kadiev, Velizar Enchev, Borislav Iglev, Dimitar Tanev, Georgi Tarnovalyski, Ivan Penkov Ivanov, Filip Popov, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Manol Genov; Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; Georgi Bozhinov and Tasco Ermenkov. 8. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer five questions from the MPs Petar Slavov, Miho Mihov, Boris Stanimirov, Hristo Gadzhev and Willi Lilkov. 9. Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will answer 11 questions from the MPs Slavi Binev [[two questions]] , Mihail Mikov, Rumen Yonchev, Georgi Kuchukov, Velizar Enchev, Stanislav Stanilov [[three questions]] , Dimitar Dubov and Christian Vigenin and one question from the National Representative Christian Vigenin. 10. Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer seven questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov [[two questions]] , Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Boyka Marinska, Dimitar Shishkov, Kiril Dobrev, Radoslav Stoychev and Philip Popov. 11. Culture Minister Vejdi Rashidov will answer four questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov [[two questions]] , Slavi Binev and Ivan Slavov Ivanov. 12. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer two questions from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev and Willi Lilkov. 13. Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer six questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev [[two questions]] , Svetla Bachvarovi and Dimitar Dimitrov; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Chavdar Peychev and two questions from the MPs Rumen Yonchev and Yavor Haytov, Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova? to three questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Iskren Veselinov and Yavor Haytov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on two issues from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev, Mariana Boyadjieva, Manol Genov and one question from the MP Yavor Haytov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski at a question by the MPs Stefan Kenov and Chavdar Peychev; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to three questions from the MPs Vassil Antonov, Atanas Stoyanov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to two questions from the National Representative Christian Vigenin; - the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to three questions from the MPs Petar Slavov, Vasil Antonov, Dimitar Tanev and a question with written answer from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. For the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers shall be postponed: - to four questions and one question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova [[two questions]] ; to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva and to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov [[one question and one question]] . In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will not participate. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. My fellow Members, I hereby conclude the sitting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
