ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Yesterday's plenary session ended with the presentation of the reports referred to in point 4 of our weekly programme, namely the first vote of the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria with an importer of the Council of Ministers, on 31 October 2016. The Minister of Finance and a representative of the Supreme Judicial Council, in view of the budget of the judiciary, is to present their proposals to us. Before that, the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I request permission in the hall of Mr. Dimitar Uzunov, the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u3	I shall put the proposal to the vote. 140 MPs voted: 136 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite Mr. Uzunov. He's already in the gym. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2017 The word has been given by the Minister of Finance to present the submitted Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, fellow ministers! Before I present to you briefly the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 let us make the agreement that I will not put a pathos into this presentation. The situation in which the Council of Ministers presents the state's spending account for the next year, days before leaving the cabinet, is unconventional. Therefore, the presentation will not follow the canon by which the State Budget Act is normally presented. I will begin briefly by recalling some of the main challenges in the field of public finances at the time of the government's inauguration as of November 2014. Firstly, an event took place in 2014, which was unprecedented in recent years of shock to the financial sector and had an extremely negative impact on the budget. This was the collapse of the liquid crisis and the subsequent bankruptcy of the fourth largest commercial bank in Bulgaria. This event continued to have a negative impact on public finances not only in 2014, but also in the coming years due to negative signals and doubts about the state of the financial sector. The long period of political crisis destabilises the budget for 2014, with the need to update the budgetary framework for the year being absolutely necessary in the middle. Prime Minister Oresharski's government attempted to update the budget several weeks before resigning and was planned by the majority in parliament, leaving no other option than the changes to be made at the end of the year by the newly formed government after the extraordinary parliamentary elections. This has limited extremely many opportunities to compensate for the delays in the implementation of revenue through cost optimisation measures and, in fact, predetermined the deterioration of the deficit compared to the targets set for the year. As a first step in resolving this crisis situation, the newly formed government prepared and submitted for approval to the National Assembly a Draft Budget update bill for 2014 to provide resources for the immediate payment of the rightful depositors to the banks guaranteed by law for the company commercial bank (CCB) declared bankrupt. Despite the limited time, this difficult task was successfully carried out and the whole process of paying deposits to legally entitled persons went smoothly and without difficulties. Secondly, in order to return the trust in the Bulgarian banking system was prepared and reviewed the quality of the assets of all Bulgarian banks and this was done under all the rules for carrying out stress tests and review of the quality of the assets of the European Central Bank. These two vital steps to overcome the negative consequences of the declared bankruptcy CCB were without alternative to restoring trust in the Bulgarian banking system and to date they have been successfully implemented. In terms of budgetary parameters, there are several important indicators for fiscal policy in the past two years. First of all is the improvement of the budgetary position on the consolidated fiscal programme. The Commission therefore concludes that there is no need for State aid in the form of State aid, which is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. On a cash-based basis, up to the end-of-October 2016, record for recent years, surplus of 3.4 billion. lv. The budgetary parameters in all months following the end of the crisis 2014 report an improvement on an annual basis which also corresponds to the improvement in macroeconomic indicators. As a result of this consolidation, the forecasts of the Ministry of Finance for this year show that instead of the deficit planned under the 2016 Act of 1.8 billion. lv. the year will end with a balanced budget or even surplus. This year will be the first year in which a deficit will not be formed after 2008. Last but not least, consistent consolidation was a direct expression of the philosophy of the Public Finance Act. Another important feature of fiscal policy in the past two years has been the improvement of the revenue side of the budget. The achieved nominal growth of tax and non-tax revenues for 2015 and the first months of 2016 are significantly ahead of the growth of this indicator for the period 2010-2014. Tax revenues at the end of October 2016 increased nominally compared to the same period of the previous year by more than 1.7 billion, with growth seen in almost all tax groups. These results, on the one hand, are due to the improvement in macroeconomic indicators and to a small extent to improved revenue collection. Having introduced a number of measures in 2015 to increase revenue collection, combat smuggling and tax fraud, these measures were further developed and renewed in 2016. A number of measures were also implemented to improve communication, facilitate business work with revenue administrations, and reduce administrative burden. The fiscal effects of these measures are clearly seen in the parameters for the implementation of revenue. It is therefore extremely important that these measures continue to be implemented systematically and further developed, which has a disciplinary effect and will allow the positive trends of the last two years to be maintained in the medium horizon. Another challenge the government had to face was the dramatic delay in implementing the projects co-financed by the European Commission on operational programmes and funds of the European Union. We should not forget that the Operational Programme "Environment" and some axes under the Operational Programme "Regional Development" were temporarily suspended due to violations and the implementation of many projects was lag behind by the end of 2014. In this regard, work was immediately started to catch up on the lag and unblock the stopped programs. The deadline for final payment to project contractors for most programmes was the end of 2015, which is an extremely short period, given the state of implementation of the projects at the end of 2014. In 2015, huge efforts were made to speed up the implementation of projects and to maximise the use of funds under the operational programmes: the Rural Development Programme, the Development Programme of the Sector............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. As a result of these efforts, the payments currently made from the budget of the operational programmes for the 2007-2013 programming period amounted to 98,5 of the total budget agreed. What is the state of the state account at the moment? What do we leave to the next government? As I have already mentioned, it is certain that the 2016 budget will be balanced or even positive. The fiscal reserve at the end of October amounted to 14.2 billion at 7,5 billion in October 2014. If this amount is added by the Deposit Guarantee Fund, the amount of the reserve today reaches 15.8 billion. I say this because, over the entire term, skillfully, but improperly speculated with the debt-taking programme, there was no 16 billion taken. Under the programme approved at the end of 2014, the new debt is slightly below 10 billion and it is almost entirely available in the fiscal reserve. Why should we accept this budget? Because it guarantees the preservation of one of the lowest levels of taxation in the European Union. The revenue provided for is realistic and feasible and is a guarantee to ensure the financing of sectoral policies without leading to the accumulation of new deficits and an increase in debt. The 2017 budget provides the necessary funds to ensure the main functions of the state. Additional funds are provided for the social sectors of education, healthcare, and for the maintenance of combatable armed forces. The implementation of the National Programme is guaranteed. If this budget is not adopted, the timetable for synchronising excise legislation will not be respected with that of the European Union. The absorption of EU funds will be delayed due to the lack of the corresponding national co-financing provided by the state budget, as it will remain at the levels of 2016, including the additional funds received by the European Commission to tackle the refugee problem. The minimum wage, pensions, teachers' salaries, social workers' salaries, emergency aid workers, aids and benefits for disabled children will not be increased. There won't be enough resources to ensure the planned modernization of the army. The implementation of the program for renovation of residential buildings will be limited, there will be non-compliance and the budgets of state social security and the National Health Insurance Fund can no longer be realised at the first vote. We've heard a lot of criticism about the budget. Perhaps the next government can stake in it other policies. I heard that they did not create incentives for the economy. I also heard these words at the end of 2015 on the occasion of the 2016 budget, but you saw that for the third quarter of 2016 we are in one of the top places on gross domestic product growth in Europe. I heard he wasn't reforming. Reforms aren't resources. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , reforms are an attitude towards the policy and management of this resource. I heard it was the same person and the state is the same, only richer, though not with as much as we'd like. I propose that we adopt this budget, and I ask those who will implement it, not to succumb to populism, not to change taxes, but to increase cost efficiency, to keep the budget balanced. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u5	On behalf of the Supreme Judicial Council, the representative of the Council will present the draft budget to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ministers! Under the Judicial Law, the Supreme Judicial Council is a permanent body representing the judiciary, ensuring its independence, determining the composition and organisation of the work of the judiciary and carrying out the management of the work without prejudice to the independence of its bodies. The main principle, in the development of the 2017 draft budget and the budgetary forecasts for 2018 and 2019 in the judiciary, respectively, is independence and forecasting the optimal amount of funds for the normal functioning of the judicial institution. The draft budget of the judiciary reflects the desire to increase the effectiveness of the overall work of the judiciary at the level corresponding to the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union. In the preparation of the estimates, objective needs of the number of magistrates and officers of the judiciary, determined in relation to the number of legal proceedings and the rate of their increase, as well as the functioning of the single classification of positions in the judiciary and the pay table of magistrates, have been used. The reports were developed on the basis of the established budgets for 2016 of the judicial authorities, providing for additional costs necessary for their normal functioning and ensuring the swift administration of justice, the establishment of information systems for the implementation of electronic justice. The draft budget for 2017 and the updated budget forecasts for 2018 and 2019 of the judiciary respectively are in line with the guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 draft budget of the Ministry of Finance. Funds are provided for securing basic functions and activities related to amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, a large part of which have entered into force, you know very well this year. In connection with the change of art. 130a, para. 2, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 5 of the Law on the Judicial Authority under the Draft Budget are laid down funds for major renovation and acquisition of buildings, there are estimates of additional funds needed to organize and hold a general assembly of judges, prosecutors and investigators for the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the functions and powers of the Inspector of the Supreme Judicial Council provided for in the Law on the Judicial Authority and an addition of the Law to it. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. lv. for the three years, take into account the policy of equal access to justice, in which the extension of the scope of the judicial activity excludes the introduction of market mechanisms for the provision of legal assistance in civil and criminal matters. It should also be borne in mind that the rise in legal proceedings is not possible to relate to a significant increase in proceeds from judicial fees due to the high proportion of criminal and administrative proceedings which you very well know are exempt from state charges by law. The estimated revenue is realistic, taking into account changes in the regulations and using economic and statistical methods of analysis, in line with the forecasts for the changed macroeconomic environment. A reserve for unforeseen and urgent expenses of 900 thousand has been added. lv. for the three years. The development of the spending part in the 2017 Project Budget and the forecasts for 2018 and 2019 respectively provides for optimal financial provision of the main policies to which the activities of all those working in the judiciary of the Republic of Bulgaria are subject. The main policies and programmes in the area of the judiciary are briefly the following: First, the implementation of justice and judicial authority in order to protect the rights and legitimate interests of citizens, legal persons and the state and includes the activities of all courts in the Republic of Bulgaria. Three programmes are divided into this policy. Next policy "respecting the legality in the Republic of Bulgaria and including the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. Four programs are assigned. The next policy is the management and organization of the judiciary's work without violating its independence and includes the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council. Four programmes are assigned to this policy. The next policy is strengthening the professional qualifications of law enforcement authorities and includes the activities of the National Institute of Justice. Three programs are set up here. The following policy is the control of the judicial authorities based on the principles of legality, objectivity and publicity. The fifth policy includes the activities of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council with three programmes attached to it. The next policy is e-Justice and includes the establishment of a single information system to counter crime. The reports are fully consistent with the policies set out on the roadmap to implement the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary adopted by an act of the Council of Ministers of April 2016. I should point out that the proposed version of the judiciary budget on the opinion of the Council of Ministers differs in terms of the costs proposed by the Supreme Judicial Council by 32.7 million. lv. The Council of Ministers' draft budget for the judiciary for 2017 is mainly aimed at increasing staff costs. No funds are secured for current deductions and capital expenditure. Additional expenditure of 11.2 million should be added to the Council of Ministers' proposal. BGN, which are necessary to ensure the following basic functions and activities related to the amendment of the Law on the Judiciary, a large part of which, I repeat, entered into force this year. And they are: the remuneration of the jury, for which, after the change of one of the texts in the Judicial Law, an additional 2.4 million will be needed. lv.; organisation and holding of a meeting for the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council....................................................................................... lv.; expenditure related to the management and management of the real estate of the judiciary, including funds for the rental of buildings, property tax, used by the judicial authorities.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. lv.; additional powers of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council arising from the amendments to the Judicial Tribunal Act................................................................................................. lv.; means of 1,9 million BGN to reach the level of support for 2016 as the proposed costs of maintenance by the Council of Ministers amounted to 47,7 million. BGN, in the case of 49.6 million established lv. for 2016 To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we should note that the requirements for the administration of justice are constantly increasing. It is therefore a priority to build a well-functioning and transparent judicial system to ensure the effective enforcement of laws, to provide security to citizens and to protect respect for their rights and freedoms. The reform in this area is aimed at achieving equal access to justice and European standards in the field of legal aid, protection of victims of crime, judicial execution and alternative dispute resolution. As representing the Supreme Judicial Council and the President of the Commission, I sincerely hope that you will vote on a budget that will allow the entire judiciary to function normally and ensure the new activities and functions enshrined in the provisions of the Judicial Authority Act of 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u7	Thank you. The debate is open. A request for a statement was given by Mr. Slavcho Atanasov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u8	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues! Minister Goranov, I will talk to a famous pathos because the subject I am referring to, in practice, to such a budget, is sentenced to gradual self-deprecating. Today I will not speak as chairman of a committee or as MP, but I will speak on behalf of those who, despite the difficult and previous time left aside and who themselves continue to carry the spiritual power of Bulgaria, to preserve, promote and develop Bulgarian culture. I will say what all creative alliances and cultural institutions have made clear as a problem during our meetings. A material culture serves nothing if it is not a condition for the realization of spiritual goals, the great Yavorov said. I stress this because for years our contemporary political practice has been deaf and blind to this ingenious insight. Culture and science are not a priority and years for it is defined a limit for development and storage, notice, within 0,5% of gross domestic product. Those on behalf of whom I have come before you do not plead, notice, too, for wages, although they are at the bottom of their incomes compared to other categories. Categories that do not have their two or more magistrates, do not speak languages, leave creativity and scientific discoveries for centuries to come, do not store the cultural wealth of the nation to reach and reach us during these thousand and three hundred years. I realize that Bulgarian culture today is not among the priorities of Budget 2017 and this cannot happen in the presence of so many problems. This is precisely why, when we formed a budget, the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously united around the proposal of the Minister of Culture Mr Rashidov, the budget to increase from 0.5% to 0.6% for the most urgent expenditure to ensure not wages, but the activities that are the backbone of Bulgarian culture. We do not want the maximum funds, but we come up with minimal and completely realistic proposals in our view. Bulgaria is already preparing for the Presidency of the European Union in 2018. An extremely important part, which will accompany the parliamentary dimension of this representation, is the presentation in a dignified way of the Bulgarian cultural product, of the intellectual power of our nation. Immediately in 2019 Plovdiv will be a European capital of culture, which will represent Bulgaria. Yes, we have an amazing cultural heritage and very talented Bulgarians. This is what distinguishes us, which is our Bulgarian face, which raises us on the cultural map of Europe. But it is not enough to know that we have such wealth, we must create conditions for the development of the talented and creative Bulgarians today, adding to the historical cultural heritage the genius works of our contemporaries. Unfortunately, with Budget 2017 we remained only at the stage that we know. What about progress? And the preservation of Bulgarian culture? Where do we go as a nation if we do not develop our culture and our spiritual face? It is true that in absolute terms there is an increase in the budget of culture by 14 million. lv. However, it is not said that only by October, colleagues, budget 2016 expenditures are already in deficit of 11 million. BGN, i.e. the new budget year is supposed to be tempting, but it's actually already eaten apple. I would only allow myself one example of how a nation, which was known as the most readable one years ago, gradually became a rare search for the book. Many of our contemporaries do not read a book a year, not from illiterateness, but from lack of material opportunity to fill their spiritual needs. While in Bulgaria for years relax between 0.02 to 0,30 BGN. maximum inhabitant for books, according to the international norms of European governments, are provided at least 3 BGN. We forgot the covenant of the ancestors that they lived and built modern Bulgaria thanks to their attitude towards knowledge, culture and art. I would like to remind myself that in the very first government of the Prime Minister Boyko Borisov was signed with the cabinet, creative unions, trade union organizations Tripartite agreement to gradually increase the funds for the Bulgarian culture to 1% of the gross domestic product so that cultural decentralisation can take place and reform can be carried out, according to a thoughtful national strategy for the development of culture, cultural creative institutes, cultural heritage and cultural tourism. I'll point out one more fact. Annex No 4 of the mid-term budgetary forecast for priorities adopted by the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly for the period 2017 - 2019 shows that Budget 2017 is no different from 2016. A, note that for 2018. As forecast, the difference is only 100 thousand. lv. This is half the alimony of one of the most prestigious festivals such as European Music Weeks, Sofia Music Weeks, March Music Days Ruse, Varna Theatre Festival, Scene at Crossroads Plovdiv, National Festival of Bulgarian Drama Shumen, and others. The scary thing is the word is that the program for support of the Bulgarian festivals, which received European quality certificates in 2015. The risk of closing these festivals due to lack of finance is great and real, and the National Fund for Culture has an annual budget for 12 programmes within only 450 thousand. lv. Nowhere in Project Budget 2017 have I seen a proposal to finance the upcoming national celebration of 180 years since the birth of Vasil Levski in 2017. Are we gonna give this up, too? Where will the funds for the e-government come from, for example, where the Ministry of Culture must enter? Where would money be taken, at least to digitize open artifacts? In order for there to be a reform in the performing arts work on a project principle and funds are needed for the specialized funds in order to be able to apply the holders of new and creative art and to have sustainable growth in culture and the preservation of our cultural identity. Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! We reserve the right between first and second readings as MPs to propose changes to our proposed budget, but more importantly, to hear the alarming bell that a people who does not create intellectual power does not protect their cultural temples, does not develop aspiration for knowledge and sublime, cannot make secure and important steps in the future. Because culture is what remains after us, when all the public ramifications, struggles and oppositions of today are long forgotten. Again I will repeat and complete the culture of a people is not only its national identity in time, but also its national security nowadays. To have us tomorrow, we have to develop today. In this budget, however, and in view of the forecast for 2018 the Bulgarian culture is doomed to a gradual process of self-deprecating. Therefore, personally, I cannot support such a budget unless appropriate changes are made between first and second readings concerning the special sector of................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u9	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Any lines to Mr. Atanasov? I won't. There is a floor for speech Mr. Rumen Gechev, to prepare Mr. Velikov, Mr. Tanev and Mr. Imamov, who have been recorded so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! The proposed budget 2017 is a repeat of Budget 2016. That is why Mr. Finance Minister is right that we will return to the criticisms and pseudo objectives that you had set for 2016 and which you are repeating for 2017. My fellow Members, I will refer briefly to five key points in which we explain why we do not agree with Budget 2017 and why we believe that it does not meet the economic interests of the country. Firstly, in this type of budget, colleagues, it does not represent an organic part of any vision of the cabinet for economic development of Bulgaria for the 3-year period 2017-2019. It is not bound by the provision of conditions for adequate dynamic economic growth, which would allow us in the foreseeable future of 5 years to overtake at least the last country before us in the European Union. The cabinet offers unacceptable low levels of economic growth of 2.5 " 2.7 per cent of gross domestic product, given that Romania's previous country offers and has put in its budget laws a growth of about 4.5 per cent. Higher growth is at stake in countries such as Poland and Hungary, which means, honourable Members, that with this main objective of economic growth below 3% we condemn Bulgaria not only to remain but to strengthen its last place in the European Union. This means staying last in the European Union on gross domestic product per capita, respectively by living standard. Secondly, for a second year in a row, you are proposing a reduction in budget expenditure in gross domestic product, respectively 38.4 per cent in 2017, 37.9 per cent in 2018, and 37.7% in 2019, given that the budget deficit and public debt are below the EU's limits. This is in blatant contradiction with the policies of our partners from the European Union and with the undisputed recipes for exiting economic depression and speeding up economic growth. What are the facts? Germany is the leading economy of the European Union, honourable Members, for the last 20 years it has been supporting budget expenditures in the 44-year range of 57 per cent of gross domestic product, and for 2017 it is 44%, and you are proposing that we go below 39% and 38%. In France it is 57 per cent of gross domestic product, and in the period 1978-2015 it is not falling below 52%. For the past 15 years, Italy has maintained budget expenditure in GDP at a level of more than 50%. Let's see the sides of our rug. In Poland, there are 42 percent in the last 10 years, in Hungary, 45% in the Czech Republic, 43 percent. The difference in the proposal, honourable Members, is between 5 billion. BGN, which deprives the Bulgarian budget, which can be used to stimulate economic growth and social programs. Furthermore, just when our economy needs state support through market mechanisms, you are in fact refusing such support with these budgets. Here are the facts! In this project you report that the cost of state consumption will decrease in 2018 by about 3.5%. This is also a unique approach. All other Member States of the European Union, as well as all the countries known to me, and they are not few, are committed to increasing budget consumption as a proven and effective means of stimulating the economy, especially when it is in crisis or in a depressed state like ours with low growth. Again, I stress, provided that we do not have imbalances in the budget and in the public debt. This is what colleagues from other countries are doing.. Member States of the European Union! In January the Czech Republic, private consumption will grow by 26% in July 2017 and state consumption will grow by 2.5%. To recall, we are offered to decrease by 3.5% and therefore growth is at 2.5 Between 2016 and 2016 the country's growth was 4.5 percent and unemployment was 4%. In Romania, private consumption is growing by 6.8%, the Romanians have decided to grow by 3.5%, and here it is proposed to decrease by 3.5 percent. In Romania, they pursue a level of economic growth of 4.5%, unemployment is lower than Bulgaria, as in other European countries. I will quote you, we do not say it, but the latest analysis of BNB, uploaded on the Internet:. 2 of 2016, p. 8, I quote: In the first quarter of 2016, the real gross domestic product grew on a chain base of 0.7%. All right! Further on: The main contribution to growth during the quarter was private consumption and net exports. And be careful now! The negative contribution to growth was the government consumption and the gross formation of core capital and until the next 3 years BNB said that economic growth would be below expectations, again due to the negative contribution of the budget expenditures of the Republic of Bulgaria. That is, and the facts from our partners and developed, and developing countries, and BNB, and other independent institutions tell you that you are conducting an absolutely wrong budgetary policy in terms of impact on the economy. Thirdly, you have placed a cross on the 500 million Investment Fund. lv. from the previous government. You were not at all moved by the remarks last year and by the fact that the European Commission created a special investment fund called "Junker" of 315 billion. The euro and recently the Commission has said that it wants this amount to be doubled in order for both the budget and non-budget funds in the European Union to stimulate economic growth. What are your colleagues doing, colleague Goranov? Listen carefully. This year, the German government announced a large-scale government investment programme of 265 billion. EUR in a 14-year horizon. The developed market economy of the Federal Republic of Germany has a government investment programme with a 14-year horizon. We've got zero. How much are they growing? From 31.5 billion in 2016 to 33.3 billion in 2017. The German Federal Government now assumes targeted investments in microelectronics development of 1.7 billion. EUR, set aside a special fund of 10 billion. EUR for the next two years, which are targeting less developed municipalities in the Federal Republic of Germany, and the 500 million fund that we had created in the Republic of Bulgaria, like the European Union, as countries such as Germany, one of its objectives was precisely to help the less developed regions of Bulgaria. The Polish government announced a long-term 25-year investment programme of 250 billion. dollars, dear colleagues. Poland, which is not entering into an economic crisis, Poland, which supports 4.5% economic growth, Poland, which reindustrialises its economy and increases exports, Poland, which is becoming one of the strongest economies in Eastern Europe, makes 10-20-year investment programmes. There's no program here for next year. No one says about economic strategies and tactics for a horizon of 3, 5 and 15 years. Absolutely unacceptable. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. capital expenditure, but, honourable Members, this is once again a budget trap. Elementary slick and accounting number. This year, 2.5 billion were voted on. capital expenditure. Do you know how much they've spent? About 500 million. Of 2 billion. lv. The Bulgarian economy was deprived of small, medium and large companies, of fresh financial resources through public-private partnership. This money did not reach the Bulgarian producers and Bulgarian suppliers. Why? To account for budget growth and good budget numbers? What do we tell people? Look at us here, some fake numbers, we didn't spend $2 billion, and we're showing them to you as big budget success, but we're depriving our economy of that money. Germany, the Czech Republic, Poland, the States, Canada, Bangladesh increase budget spending, but no, we will hide 2 billion, we will not give them to the Bulgarian economy. To this 2 billion we add another 2 billion, which has been frozen since the summer of this year. Yes, you remember that we voted and drew a loan in the spring in view of one, in my view, not particularly justified risk coverage of 2 billion. lv. for the stress tests of the banking system. Where's that summer money so far? There are 2 billion more frozen. lv. And worst of all, honourable Members, the fund of funds that we created here with a decision last year - 777 million. EUR 1 and a half billion, you put into a management hat to improve the organisation and use of funds. What's the score? Not a single euro has entered the Bulgarian economy since last year! The new ladybugs there move folders from drawer to drawer, not a single euro out of 777 million has entered! In other words, 5 billion are blocked in the implementation of the 2016 budget. lv. from the Bulgarian economy, and for 2017 and forecast 2018 and 2019 you continue to support the Bulgarian state as the stepmother of the Bulgarian economy and do the opposite! These are the facts compared to colleagues from the West and East in the European Union. Fourth, what is the assessment of foreign investors, honourable Members? The data is freezing. According to BNB data from the Internet, you can now enter and see them, the period January "August 2016" compared to January and August the same period in 2015, foreign direct investments have decreased from 1.5 billion. EUR 1 and a half billion, at 988 million Euros. This means a decline of about 500 million. EUR or 33% per year. This is called a disaster in foreign investment. Leave the opposition alone! Foreign investments write you an estimate of budget and economic policy. They do not come to Bulgaria. And the data that the Bulgarians increase the export of capital from Bulgaria here from BNB shows that the capital is starting to leave Bulgaria. Whether you will listen to the opposition or not is your problem, but read at least the laws on the budget and policies of the countries from which we need to learn, log in and see the analyses of BNB, see the data of the National Statistical Institute. And in the fifth place, we support some steps in the budget.. We increase teachers' salaries.............................................................. we increase the minimum wage.................................................................................................. We increase teachers' salaries, we leave doctors' salaries in chemistry and physics, lecturers in higher education institutions, lower than cleaning women's salaries in schools. There's no such country in Africa! How long will the genocide against Bulgarian science continue? Here's a disproportion. Secondly, you increase the minimum wage to 460 BGN. Very good. Why do you freeze it 2018 and 2019? To help with social polarization? So, honourable Members, so far you have not submitted to Parliament, we do not have national development priorities for 15-20 years like Romania and Hungary, we do not have for three years. We don't have sector policies, we have an excellent accounting document.Dal Kolio, took Kolyo, budget revenues and expenses, report some hollow budgetary successes and we have squeezed the Bulgarian economy by the throat. Not that way in the budget! BSP left Bulgaria does not support the budget because it does not respond not only to our philosophy, it does not meet the economic interests of the country. You have a majority, honourable Members, we withdraw our proposals because we are only 38 people in parliament, so the Bulgarian people decided. Vote for it. We wish you all the best! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u11	Any lines to Mr. Gechev? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gechev, I can't help but make this line for you because your speech, even more like the BSP's first speech, very vividly illustrates the difference between a centre-right government and a left-wing government. You want to spend what you don't have, what the state doesn't have, and possibly pay one day of the next government, because people usually kick you out on the second year, mostly on the third or fourth year. But to get back to the subject, I would like to point out to you that what you are proposing, this increase in budget redistribution from the current 37-38% to 55-58 maybe, as you were talking about, to me, means only one thing, and for every thinking economist can only mean one thing: a drastic increase in taxes. And here the question is not when, but how many. I have labored to open the bill, which recently rejected this parliament, in which you propose to drop the flat tax and introduce progressive taxation with a proportional increase in the rate that reaches nearly 30% at its upper limit, and for mass taxation it will be perhaps about 20% of Bulgarian citizens, meaning at least twice you want to increase taxes, and for some people and three times, which I do not think will appeal to people. The Oresharski Fund in question, which you praise so much, take and look at the report of the State Financial Inspection to see how many violations have been found in the management of this fund and the spending of the funds. I hope this shows you that you just don't do it. Then you voted on some money to give red mayors to make politics, not really make investments in the economy and solve people's problems. I'm ending up with what a disaster means because you were talking about a car accident. Mr. Gechev, for me, a disaster means to bankrupt banks, to have hyperinflation, to have a pension of $3, and to pay $5. Well, this thing is a disaster! What the government is proposing right now is something that we obviously don't like about many people. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , a large part of my fellow Members will vote abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u13	You don't have time, you have five people on tape.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u14	We are going to vote abstentionally because it will allow such populist speeches to blow even further the costs and future generations to have to pay you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u15	And your card belongs to Stanimirov, Mr. Stanimirov. I've announced you as Mr. Martin Dimitrov, you've overdue your time, you have five people enlisted by your group. [[noise and laughter]] I don't know how you're gonna get into the minutes. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u16	Dear Madam President, dear colleague! First of all, there are no differences that there are different philosophies about budgeting, fiscal and economic policies of left and right. It's perfectly normal, it would be strange not to have such differences. But, secondly, a colleague, the data I gave you about our partners, developed and developing, from Eastern Europe, they are verifiable. They're not data on left and right. These data I gave you are... Who is the Federal Republic of Germany run by? From the German Socialist Party? France, Britain, Italy, by whom are they governed? From different parties, left and right. Stop speculating! There is no developed country on our planet that does not have progressive taxation, there is no rapidly evolving country that does not have progressive taxation. Do not fail before the election to double and triple taxes! We have proposed a rock that we have withdrawn, because let's see what the Bulgarian people will say in the elections. The middle class will not pay any higher taxes, those with the lowest income will not pay taxes, the rich Bulgarians should pay more taxes. Because even in the right-wing economies, my dear colleague, I'm going to tell you one number at the end, to use it. In the United States, which are your right role model as a neoliberal model, there is no harm, the limit tax is 39,6 The U.S. income tax in several states reaches 15%, that is, rich Americans 40 percent and 15 percent make 55 percent, only income tax, and 70 percent, honourable Member Minister of Finance, from budget income tax revenues in the United States of America are paid by 10% of wealthy Americans. So I wish you all the best, something you haven't read properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u17	The word for speech is Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! My speech will be devoted to education and science. As is clear from the report of our respective well-functioning Commission, while for education, especially pre-school and school, there is a substantial, well-deserved growth in funding, it is a worrying situation for science. Non-financing in this area is already chronic and increasingly difficult to understand. This is the most concentrated expression found in the lack of enough funds for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, a fairly well reformed system after the international audit in 2010. If, like gross domestic product, we talk about gross scientific product and mention one of the science indicators, the number of scientific publications for the country are about 17 000 for the last year and the contribution of BAS is 62%. If the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria in question for 2017 is adopted in the first vote, for which I call, let the funding of the science system, including the "Science Research". Although the least eight-digit number left, be one of the few tasks around which to unite for the second vote. In the 43rd National Assembly we are about or at least 29 people with scientific degrees doctor of science and doctor of science. But I am sure that in all 480 eyes of our MPs burns the flame of knowledge and spirituality. Let's think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u19	Thank you, Assoc. Gorgeous. - What's the line? I won't. Next to speak, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Today we are discussing the country's State Budget Act for 2017. The main thing we need to be guided by is that the correct budget estimates and the appropriate fiscal policy are a guarantee of political and economic stability in the country and, of course, a precise and rigorous implementation of this budget, which implies that the budget is feasible even when it is adopted. This, of course, is even more important today when we face the challenges of the government crisis. Today we are called on to systematically approach the system of a state. The role of the system parties should manifest itself precisely through the attitude towards this Bill. We called for consensus when considering and solving several points, one of which is the Budget Bill for next year. However, we see a lack of desire for dialogue, let alone consensus, and vivid manifestations of populism in solving this issue. We have set a condition for the adoption of the bill, namely the consensus between the system parties. Because it didn't work out, we're not gonna back up this bill. The declarations of some parties to end populist statements are nothing more than another proof of their populism. That is why the self-assessment of these parties, as system parties, is part of the ongoing populism in parliament. We, from the DPS, strongly condemn any manifestation of populism and define this as a cheap way of deluding. Achieving consensus in clear positions, fair and open discussion, could guarantee the adoption of a budget to ensure the normal functioning of the country's state and economy. Dear colleagues, time requires that by our actions we determine our place in the system, its role and attitude towards the system! The importance of a party is determined not only by the volume and experience, but also by the responsible position that it can take and courageously defend. As far as the expert side of the Bill is concerned, our experts will be concerned. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u21	And thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line? There aren't any. Next to speak is Ms Mariana Todorova of the ABB Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The political argument with which we will not support the budget is that it is a key instrument for conducting government and majority policies in parliament, as I said yesterday, since this government is resigned and will not be responsible, consensus and agreement on a new budget from the next majority should be sought. And we will also be in the hypothesis of having two official governments appointed by two different presidents. They will have the funds from this budget and could illegally use it. We also recommend following the principle of spending one twelfth of last year's funds and starting clean from the new cabinet to work out the next budget. Of course, there is another possibility: to adopt this budget and the next government to update it and to conduct the policies that it would like and should spend. It worries us that the debates on this budget can become part of the next election campaign and field for populism, the budget to grow with very inappropriate proposals that are mutually exclusive. This could make it very difficult for the next cabinet and put it before a done fact. The principle arguments with which we do not support the budget are that there are not many new policies in it. We argue that there are a number of sectors that need to be changed: economic policy, judicial system, health care. On the other hand, there is not enough funding in areas that have already been reformed, such as the pension system. ABB will insist that this budget will be subject to the political calendar and to the prospect of close elections. We will support measures already set out, such as an increase in teachers' salaries, minimum wage and health funds, but we will not support the proposed new loan of 1.2 billion. We believe that the fiscal reserve allows not only the planned deficit to be financed in the coming year but also to have the opportunity to restructure and reduce government debt. We believe that revenues, as well as economic growth, are underestimated. The reduction in expenditure and the increase in revenue will allow for a reduction in the budget deficit in 2017. ABB will propose an increase in some costs, without which some systems will collapse next year. It is about the funds for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Agricultural Academy, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. These are funds that must be spent to increase remuneration. Otherwise, Bulgaria will deepen its tendency to remain without scientists, without military and police officers, and in the most inappropriate period. It is necessary to take a second step this year towards raising wages in the social sphere. The salaries increased last year at the Employment Agency, the Social Assistance Agency and the Labour General Inspectorate compensated for the minimally significant late payment of employees in these agencies, which risks significantly affecting the services they provide. ABB will offer an additional cost, which has a significant effect on demographic policy and is critically important to society. It is about guaranteed and free access to nursery and kindergartens from the age of two of each Bulgarian child. This will help working parents and take the most effective measure to reduce early school dropout. Studies have already been carried out with the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the increase of targeted subsidies through municipalities can be started so that this measure can be introduced. The truth is, it's worth about 500 million. BGN, but we do not insist that this be a comprehensive policy for the whole country, and its introduction could take place in different municipalities. Last but not least, ABB insists on reviewing standards for social services, especially in the part that goes for paying specialists in these services. With the increase of the minimum wage, social services will be left without qualified labour, as standards do not allow it to be paid. We will also propose the good initiative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to pay half of the income of parents who, before one year of age, return to work, apply fully and pay the full amount of income. This will not burden public finances, as parents who return early to work will contribute to more tax benefits. In conclusion, I would go to the Minister of Finance. As a sign and symbol of continuity, if possible, to come up with an official report on several parameters available to the next Minister of Finance. To answer several questions: where were capital expenditure targeted this year and what exactly are the estimates for next year? How are the surpluses from the fiscal reserve managed, directed and redirected, as well as the funds from the Silver Fund and the National Health Insurance Fund's strategic reserve? Where did the money of the 16 billion debt go to be traced and given the movement on it? How much is it worth so far to offset the taxpayers' money losses from the bankruptcy of KTB? We believe that this would be a good basis for starting the next minister's work, and society would receive a clear answer to that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u23	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. Most likely, at the final of the debates, the finance minister will make a final statement and you may get an answer to these questions. The next speech is from the MP Dimitar Tanev of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I will be brief to give the other Members of the Reformation bloc the opportunity to support the budget. I'll support him, too. I will support it because it is a realistic, viable budget, with clear spending policies. I would point out three major sectors that are identified as priorities. This, of course, is defence and security, with an increase of 825 million; education with a growth of 230 million; health care with a growth of 288 million. I would like to say that, in addition to the nominal increase, we also see an increase as a percentage of gross domestic product, which shows a clear priority to the state within the framework of the redistribution that is reserved for the same year, to give a clear signal to society that priorities are a strong, healthy and educated nation. Of course, the budget also has merit that deserves support from the right because, as I mentioned earlier, redistribution is up to 40% of gross domestic product. A declining budget deficit is envisaged compared to the previous year and I would like to stress not only that there is no new debt, but there is a reduction in debt. In this regard, I am calm about the budget presented in the Chamber. I'm not sure what's going to come out of here. I am not calm because, after the government crisis and the future elections, I expect a large part of my colleagues to play pro-election with people's hopes and fears and use the budget to play with certain groups of people in certain sectors, or for pensions, or capital expenditure in their constituency. This can turn the budget into a very dangerous instrument for which the state and all of us have been paying for years. I call on what I think all leaders of political parties also said: humility. Let us humble ourselves and let there be no new proposals between readings. Let us after the elections, depending on what confidence we have received, what election programme we have defended, only then will the new parliament have the opportunity to make these changes and reflect the policies for which it trusts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people's representative Aliosman Imamov. You have the floor, Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! The 2017 budget project contains no surprises to impress analysts, businesses and workers in the country. Perhaps an exception makes the greater increase in defence funds, the increase in minimum wage and the modest increase in funds for education, health care and municipalities that could also be attributed to this group. Some refer to the budget as conservative, others as inert, coppi-peace from previous years' budgets. All this is largely true. This is another budget of barren social and political stability, of ideologically controversial and unstable coalition, which has managed over the past two years; a budget that does not generate growth and concreteises the stagnation in the development of society. As the people say, let's tie both ends and let something stay or a year pass, let another come. Easy to implement budget. A budget drawn up with accounting precision but with convenient statistical tricks, such as the different estimates of gross domestic product in recent years, which have been selected to serve as proof of the deeply wrong and misleading claims that the Bulgarian economy is flourishing, fiscal discipline is guaranteed and economic growth is high. The revenue provided for in this budget will be overrun. Even the latest growth data in the third quarter of the current year are used as proof of this false and absolute thesis. You see, we've been to one of the first places in Europe on economic growth and only Romania is ahead of us. It cannot and cannot be used in just one quarter for such manipulative general conclusions. Moreover, there is nothing more natural for small economies and countries to grow faster. It would be abnormal to reverse growth, which does not exceed 3% on an annual basis, cannot in any case be called high growth. Long-term data in recent years show that the Bulgarian economy is still in a phase of economic depression for seven years. I would like to remind you that the great depression that rocked the world economy in the first half of the last century lasted six years. Our economy is already depressed, notice, seventh year. What economic progress can we talk about? Look at the economic macro data over the last few years, especially for growth since 2010. You will see a slight economic growth trend which shows that the Bulgarian economy is crawling down the bottom and makes weak attempts to get out of the hole of the stagnation. Unfortunately, this stagnation is also at stake in the next three-year forecast period. This is written in the documents of the Budget Project. Real economic growth is again wagering below 3% with a trend of stagnation. For comparison, note the forecasts for the growth of the world economy in the current 2016 are for more than 3% growth. The medium-term forecast provides for relatively low growth in imports and exports between 3,5 and 4%. Employment is also at a standstill rate of about 1%. The same is true for the unemployment rate.Stad around 7% over the next three years. In many of the comments on the Budget Project another ridiculous idea has been suggested: our economy has been very good, it has worked at a high rate, especially in the last two years, but, you see, the average person has not felt these positive processes in his pocket. It's like you got a raise, but for mysterious reasons, you keep getting your old salary. If this is really true, obviously this is about deeper problems, problems related to the quality of economic growth, if at all. It is clear that domestic consumption is relied on. This can be seen from the documents to the draft budget a wrong approach, which determines the poor quality of already poor economic growth. The most important negative conclusion, honourable Members, from this budget for the Bulgarian economy is that the chain is broken: investments This is the main reason to seek answers to the questions related to how will the Bulgarian economy develop in the future, how will the incomes, employment and well-being of Bulgarian citizens develop? We have repeatedly stated, we will also say now that the basic principle in public finances must be that every public lev must be spent in the direction of increasing economic growth. Otherwise, with or without a budget, Bulgarian citizens will remain the most stable poor in the European Union. We don't want that kind of stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Imamov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today, the poverty of the Bulgarian people and that a huge part of them lives on the edge of survival is called populism. It is called populism on the left, it is called populism by GERB, it is called populism on the right. I mean, it's a shame that Mr. Finance Minister isn't here, that there are three truths in this budget. The first truth is that it was not discussed with the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, as should be done in terms of elementary political culture. The second truth is that this budget is conservative. And the third truth is that it is easy to do. However, there are several questions that should be answered by the honourable finance minister today. The first question is: August 31, the size of the fiscal reserve is 14 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, September 30, the amount of 400 million. lv. That is, in just one month's absence of 2 billion. 97 million. lv. from this fiscal reserve. I would like to ask you, honourable Members, do any of you know what and how these funds have been spent? It cannot even be thrown out the justification that they were given to the nuclear power plant "Belene" because the decision on the nuclear power plant "Belene" was taken later. We do not know, since we are talking about economic development, about investments, about directing cash flows through the budget in the economy, and in fact the easiest and most effective way to affect the economy is when income is increased, first of all, of Bulgarian pensioners with a direct impact on domestic consumption. The ratio is: every paid lev in increasing the incomes of Bulgarian pensioners brings at least 3 new levs in the Bulgarian economy. That is, this is the only thing that reveals more than 150,000 new jobs and gives rise to the economy by about 1.4%. Just this thing. However, it is not done and is defined as populism. But no one tells us what happened to that money. I would like to receive an answer for the simple reason that the corrupt practice for years is to accept Bulgaria's budget and to present itself only in valuable expressions and to lack the natural indicators to it, which is the most important. None of you know why this budget provides 302 million. lv. an increase in the pero "Persenal" whether this is really a feather, which will increase employees' salaries and their efficiency and work will be much better, or this is a feather for another enlargement of the state, but low efficiency of the work of these employees. Nobody knows. No one knows what will be spent aimlessly in defence and why it is necessary to spend it in this way. These are the questions, because it is very easy to say that there is no money in the country and you cannot increase people's pension, which is not true, yesterday I proved it to you and stop repeating this lie left and right in the media. Lack of control does not allow for an increase in pensions and a lack of political will and fear. I repeat, fear that people will live a little better and become difficult to manipulate. Because a hungry person is easily manipulated and easily lied. This is called political insolence and national betrayal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u29	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement there is the word of the people representative Stefan Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u30	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! We at the Bulgarian Democratic Center will support the 2017 budget. The BDZ Party calls for the budget to be adopted, because in the end this is neither a left nor a right budget. It is not the party GERB. This is the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. The hypothesis that we should not support it is to work on the 2016 budget, which is again the political party GERB. Oh, yeah? It is high time to accept the logic that people do not have a left and a right shelf in the fridge. People want the economy to go. Businesses have been repeating for several days that there is a need for security, and this security can only come through a stable budget for 2017. Maybe we're all guilty of bringing this country into a political crisis, but let's not do this in the economy either. All international analysts say we have growth in the economy. No matter how much we question it, to read any comments in the media and in the social networks, the Bulgarian economy is going, thanks to a stability that was guaranteed by a large part of this parliament. Let us by the act of adoption of Budget 2017 give this sign to the Bulgarian business, to the Bulgarian citizens, to the people who work in the state sphere. Yes, we want wage increases, we want more investors, more money in the Bulgarian economy. We believe that the only policy is the policy of increasing incomes and it will come from here. Allow me to go into one detail as Chairman of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. I would like to thank Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva and Minister Mitov for what they have done so far and what they are doing as policies in Budget 2017. According to the data of SANS 28% of Bulgarian citizens already live abroad. Every lev invested in the young Bulgarians, Bulgarian children who live far from the country, to be given conditions to receive education in their native language, to stimulate their self-confidence that they are Bulgarians. In the Commission, we agreed that this policy must be extended. I will make a proposal, in my opinion and colleagues from the Commission will support it, for the creation of a Fund for support of organizations for Bulgarians abroad. I ask that all parliamentary groups take such a step no matter who comes to rule. Because a third of Bulgarian citizens do have the right to little government support for what they do outside the country to preserve the Bulgarian spirit. Otherwise, whatever happens, whatever government comes, whatever government comes, whether it will be party, whether there will be an opportunity for an expert cabinet, whether they will manage office offices, whether we will have a left office, or a right office, the state needs a budget, people need peace, business needs calm. So I will ask you to support Budget 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people's representative Georgi Turnovaliyski. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, colleagues! I will make an attempt from another angle to look at the budget, and rather the practices of the budgetary procedure. The practice of importing, discussing and adopting the budget in Bulgaria is with quite a lot of vices, unlike the countries with which we want to be comparable European countries in which these procedures last many months. In these countries, the report to the budget is accompanied by analyses, development, consultation, opinions, while with us on Monday the Council of Ministers adopts the budget, on Wednesday it is seen in the Budget Committee and next week it is already in the National Assembly. Despite the law on public finances adopted under the requirements of the European Directive, which regulates these processes, the vicious practice remains, I would even say, is becoming even more vicious. Another vicious practice in the budgetary procedure is that, although the Ministry of Finance filed a report on the budget for the previous year, this report is not discussed either in the committees or in the Chamber. The discussion on the report is very important because it must assess the legitimate and effective spending of public resources. The conclusions of these discussions must protect the newly accepted budget from the accumulation of errors and problems that have occurred in previous budgets. In 2015, the state budget suffered the mind-blowing number of adjustments The displacement of income and expenses was not only daily, but massively affected 36 offices! These numbers mean that the established in Bulgaria vicious practice ministers continue to redesign the annual financial plan of the state, which you and I are here accepting and arguing for a long time.............................is obviously meaningless. Moreover, the current government holds the sad record in this regard. In 2015, the government revised the budget accounts three or four times a day. This represents about 1300 adjustments,...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u33	Excuse me, Mr. Turnover, would you like a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u34	Yes, thank you. ...which is already talking about poor financial discipline. Spending significant amounts of funds at the end of the year poses risks to their effectiveness and legality. The possibility of making budgetary changes over the year does not encourage allocated budgetary resources to be planned with the necessary responsibility and aspiration to accurately define the types and amounts of expenditure. This is the conclusion of the Court of Auditors' audit. The good news here is that in the budget there is a mechanism to limit these spendings, but only up to a billion and a half leva. Up to a billion and a half government spends without sanctions to parliament. Unfortunately, the debate on the budget is limited by the so-called'macroramka', and the debate on public spending, for which budgets have been drawn up for hundreds of years, remains secondary. Debates are not based on announced government programs and objectives, more current problems, solutions to which arise on a particular problem. It states that the priorities are defence and education, and the biggest challenge was to replace priorities in reducing deficits and maintaining taxes. No, it's not a challenge, my fellow Members. It's momentum. The challenge would be if in this budget we saw the long-promised reforms reflected in numbers. The 2017 Budget Project lacks the necessary administrative reform to reduce unnecessary, ineffective costs, but it failed in 2015. Once again, in the cost section, we have the capital expenditure at stake, for which there is no justification again, there is no order of what these costs are. We never understood what they were for in 2016. I hope that with the 2016 report next year we will have more clarity. A lower level of government debt in 2017 Yes, government debt is nominally declining, but the state is taking on a new government debt over the year -- a billion and two hundred -- to clearly cover deficits and old debt payments. We believe that this is not necessary because the fiscal reserve has sufficient funds, all the more so that the committed debt in 2016 is there, and interest is paid on it. We are all discussing and we have high expectations for economic growth "4" 5 six percent, which will allow us to get closer to the European economies. But to reach this growth, it takes 13-14 billion. public investment, which we do not foresee. The planned growth is neither forwarding nor catching up with the countries of the European Union, but the Bulgarian economy is deepening its chronic difficulties under this economic growth. However, this is not a problem and the responsibility of the finance minister alone. It is a responsibility to all sectoral and ministers who have to defend policies, to fight for projects and, of course, to comply with the Public Finance Act, and today we have to be presented with reports on their budgets. The wicked practice must be overcome and everyone must demand and expect from the Minister of Finance, and this is not and cannot be just his responsibility, and all the ministers, who obviously do not know, cannot, or worse, want to take on this great responsibility. Until we overcome these vices in the budgetary procedure, we will have toothlessness, unambitious, antisocial budgets, budgets of failed priorities, budgets of delayed economic growth and lack of reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u35	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. - What's the line? I won't. To make a speech there is the people representative Miho Mihov, after him the people representative Rumen Hristov and after him the people representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u36	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will speak about the budget for the coming year concerning our defence policy and defence capabilities. It is unacceptable to say that everything in this budget is negative. There's a lot of positive stuff. With regard to military construction, we mark a step forward, as this budget has a move of 0.36% forward to increase the budget from last year as part of gross domestic product. This is indeed a good sign step forward towards 2% of gross domestic product, which has been made as a commitment by our country. There is also in the principles quite positive, such as the continuity of both budgets, the expansion of our participation in transatlantic cooperation, as well as the better efficiency of our participation in the integrated crisis management system and, above all, more efficient use of the Armed Forces to protect the population in disasters and accidents. That's satisfying. He also satisfied the trend for changing the ratio between staff, maintenance and capital expenditure. More modern is the attitude in the sense of raising capital expenditure, but modern. What are the weaknesses? The Ministry of Defence budget in its revenue section is not changing. I believe that the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces have reservations to raise 44 million "something more," it has been a system for several years, and there it has hardened thinking in this direction. The budget allocation of 1 billion. and 24 million "25" approximately shows that the share of personnel and staff costs is increasing, and the capital expenditure is estimated at nearly 1 million. So what? One would say at first glance: yes, there will be more for salaries and for filling the personnel missing in the Armed Forces and the Bulgarian Army, above all. It will not happen because this increase, if analysed, it goes for insurance, pension insurance, but not for filling the Bulgarian army. We all know the army's non-completion is about 25%. This is a lack of serious fighting ability and retreat, which remains a trend. The great ambition, in quotes, of the Ministry of Defence to fill the army with 500 people, is also in doubt because all the patriotic methods and means of attracting people to the occupation are exhausted or to increase its attractiveness. If the salary of the minimum employed in the Ministry of Defence based on 380 BGN. does not measure and develop with the increase of the minimum wage, this strongly leads to an increase of these 25% failure in the Bulgarian Army. These things, which are seen as pros in staff and capital investments, are not justified because with these capital investments the Land troops remain as the stepchild of the Bulgarian Army. To them, the Air Force, the Navals and the Landmen oppose as possible. The most massive and combatable personnel of the Land Forces expect funds for their participation in border guards, for their joint work with the Ministry of Defence, and they have not yet been paid off. Not to mention, next year we have to say: no, the army will not participate in preserving our border integrity. The war machine cannot start at all in the frame, and with this budget, which puts in an insulting state the Land troops. In fact, in order for there to be no decline in the trends that are lasting, in the fighting capacity of the Bulgarian army and to attract the population to this profession with gratitude, about 200 million will be needed. BGN to stop the trend of decline in combatability. Notice the attractiveness of the occupation this year the Ministry of Defence plans 260 students, future officers, to be accepted at the National Military University. They swore only 160 because of the lack of attractiveness of the profession! And it won't just happen with slogans. It takes money! In the end, the budget is not just numbers for me. The budget must be monitored in its verbal part. In the verbal part, I am very concerned because that program that we have adopted, the investment programmes for the two types of armed forces, are law. What's been going on lately? The key words for the Air Force are a new fighter aircraft capable of guarding airspace, attacking ground and sea targets and intelligence. In this budget, we are offered a change of words. There is no longer talk of a new fighter jet.. Multifunctional aircraft, as recorded, but it is spoken of as a user. I quote:.683 million. lv. replacing MiG-29 with a new type of user. This replacement is offensive and unworthy of the National Assembly if it accepts it. I therefore believe that all this needs to be corrected, and then I can think about adopting the budget in this part of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u37	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement the people representative Rumen Hristov, after him the people representative Petar Chobanov, after him the people representative Milen Mihov. That's in order to alternate the parliamentary groups. Only after them did the people representative Martin Dimitrov, whom I had announced.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, colleagues! I will support the 2017 budget for several reasons. First of all, he's realistic, sustainable and conservative, but not as much as I wanted him to be. We see in it a deficit of 1.4%, and I think it could have been 1%, because we on the right confess the thesis that we have to spend as much as we have earned. I hope that in the future we will get to a largely balanced budget or a balanced budget. The costs we are talking about, which are 30.8% of gross domestic product, for several years we are talking about that they should go down to 35-36%, unlike BSP left Bulgaria, which believe that they can be increased. I also see priorities that are the priorities of society. These are: education, armed forces, health care, energy efficiency and so on. A few words for In the budget, we see funds under the single payment scheme of 1 billion. 553 million, so farmers can be absolutely calm for next year and for what they expect, there are 131 million. lv. for market measures and very important, which excites, once again I say, farmers, we reserve the possibility to take the excise duty for primary agricultural production by allocating 84 million. lv. In addition, the 2017 draft budget retains the possibility and is until 31 December 2018, i.e. the maximum period of time for maintaining the VAT return in the cereals and cereals trade. We know and are proud that in the last quarter the growth of our economy is at the top of the European Union - 0.8%, for which, of course, first of all, the business has a contribution, secondly, the government and the Ministry of Economy, of course. What do we provide for those people who provide the country's gross domestic product? Under what conditions will they work? A few words. I've always advocated this thesis, and I'm going to say it one more time from this tall tribune. In 2017 we increase from 420 to 460 BGN. minimum wage. We keep the amount of insurance distribution between employers and workers 60 to 40 when promised repeatedly that this will be equalized to 50-50. We're increasing by 1% insurance contributions, and the ratio there is again 60 to 40. The first three days of hospital, which were introduced years ago with the idea of being only for a year or two, remain for the employer again. A weekend tax that comes in full force for next year, where the ratio of items that can be used alternately is 50-50. The waste fee was not done in terms of garbage fee and the business continues to take on much of what Bulgarian citizens have to pay, but the business pays it. Finally, a few words on the proposal to abolish the flat tax. Ladies and gentlemen, the low rate of corporate tax profit and Polish tax are one of the few advantages of the Bulgarian economic climate. Let's keep them, because all economists know that at lower rates we have a higher collection rate, so let's not play with populism. As far as the second vote is concerned, if proposals fall into the direction of increasing costs and shifting numbers in the framework we are currently voting on, I will definitely not support such a budget. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement, the People's Representative Petar Chobanov. After him "Milen Mihov, after him " Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen! As we have already had the opportunity to emphasise, Budget 2017 is based on obsolete economic figures, not using the official data of the National Statistical Institute, which violates budgetary philosophy and gives false idea of the amount of revenue and expenditure. The budget is based on an economy that no longer exists. Both the size of the economy and the development of key parameters such as consumption, investments and net exports are different. All spending and revenue ratios are different as a share of GDP. There is also a different assessment of the potential gross domestic product, which is the basis for the formation of a budgetary strategy corresponding to European rules. There is no link between the budget and economic development, which seriously violates budgetary philosophy and fiscal policy objectives. The undervalued gross domestic product figures for 2017 make the GDP-based relations highly elevated and unrealistic. The use of obsolete data on gross domestic product when drawing up the budget is contrary to European rules. The new Stability and Growth Pact has set strong requirements for transparency in forecasting, drawing up and implementing and reporting the budget. The new data on gross domestic product give a very different reading of the higher revenues above planned in 2015 and 2016. The new gross domestic product data proves that the higher revenues in 2015 are very much due to economic development, as gross domestic product increases by 5 billion. lv. Tax and social security revenues in 2015 rose by only half a percentage of gross domestic product compared to 2014, while in 2013 this increase was 1%. You can make an assessment of when the collection has improved more. The measures as a share of gross domestic product in 2015 only increased 0.3 per cent compared to the previous year of gross domestic product. In other words, this part of them, which is not explained by economic development directly and can be considered to improve the collection rate, its assessment as an absolute amount is about 250 million. lv. This is a good achievement, but it differs greatly from the billions announced as a result of the fight against smuggling. This is also evidence of a lack of change in revenue from value added tax again in the same year 2015, as a share of gross domestic product remains at its level as of 2014. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The medium-term strategy and the recurrence of deficit targets in 2017 and 2018 are incorrect. They are at stake in outdated and misconceptions about the economy. They are cut off from basic indicators in the absence of an adequate assessment of the economic cycle and potential growth. This is a direct contradiction with European rules. Here we can ask ourselves the question: where is the independent institution Fiscal Council? Why didn't she pay attention to this big gap? Why today do we not have an invited representative of the Fiscal Council to introduce MPs with an independent view of the budget, a view which is mandatory when discussing such a document? The structure of expenditure in the state budget is deteriorating. The share of planned capital expenditure decreased from 23% to 18% and the share of current expenditure increased from 76% to 80%. The previous year we proposed between the two readings a number of capital programmes to solve people's problems and to allocate the capital expenditure provided for in the budget. Then you know that a huge amount of capital expenditure has never been allocated. You have not accepted them and are now reporting a default of capital expenditure on a very large scale, with only one reason being the failure to absorb European funds. Your own commitments made in the National Reform Programme are not fulfilled. The entire short term of GERB and its associated parties passed without reforms. Targets have been set that have not been fulfilled. There are many examples in sectors such as the.... Public administration.... Business As evidence, and this will end, I will allow myself to quote the European Commission's overall policy assessment, including the budgetary developments: the slow implementation of public administration reforms, reforms in specific sectors such as research, innovation, energy make it difficult to improve the investment climate. Although Bulgaria has adopted a strategic framework for reforming and upgrading its public administration, progress is slow and implementation is often delayed. The new legislation is not subject to a systematic impact assessment. Common changes in the legal framework create uncertainty and affect the business environment. Perhaps that is why you are so cautious in your assessment of economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Chobanov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the public representative Nikolay Alexandrov. He was the first to speak by the political party's parliamentary group, which is why I am giving him the floor. After that, we maintain the order of the People's Representative Milen Mihov, as well as the People's Representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Einstein said if you can't explain anything to a six-year-old, you can't explain it to anyone. Why am I saying this? Because today there was always talk about the budget, some numbers were quoted, and it was quoted as saying how conservative it is and how executable it is. In fact, what does "conservative" mean? Nothing! The same empty concept as the political responsibility. Empty everywhere! Any budget would be feasible if it was not feasible to make an update and become feasible. If you make this budget accepted or not accepted, there is nothing to be afraid of. It is written in the Public Finance Act that the budget, if not adopted, continues with the old one. In other words, you cannot play with people's fear and say: "It will be scary from this budget if it is adopted and it will become populistic. You can also not say that this budget is a recorded tax reform, provided it is recorded in the tax laws and not in the State Budget Act. What do we need to know about this budget? This budget looks like everything in the last 27 years. It does not represent neoliberalism, as it is usually confessed by the financial department. A typical budget for a company takes revenue and expense. From then on, ministries, agencies move money between themselves with different regulations and decisions, and that's not what I'm saying. That's what the Court of Auditors says. The Court of Auditors has documented it. The other thing that is important to know that in this budget we do not work or at least those who offer it do not work for the benefit of those characters who are trying to survive outside with 460 BGN. incomes from January 1st to date BGN 420, of these pensioners. We don't say anything different to the mothers. The second year they should stay, you see, with an income of 340 BGN, i.e. below the minimum wage. The same is true for the sector "Safety" "380 BGN. for the second time, second year in a row, the lowest salary in the sector is not touched. The other thing we have to say is that the insurance thresholds are not being touched. On the contrary, fellow Members, in the security sector, it is the Ministry of Interior, DANS, military and, therefore, the insurance burden is changing by 20% of the State's benefit to the minister, i.e. the employee will now pay 20% higher insurance, which will, respectively, reduce his income. It's moving some money from one pocket to the other. That's how we say we plug holes. If we have to look at the budget further in all its parts, we will notice that what we told you two years ago, namely that military spending will be increased, is the case. It's very nice to increase military spending. We need to increase them to higher rates in order to actually have a fighting army, but in order to increase costs, first, you need to have an economy to step on. There is no post-war state, including after World War II, which will increase its defence spending so intensively without increasing its economy. On the contrary, one Japan does the opposite. But we don't increase the economy, colleagues. The economy here is stalling. Practically this ministry was absent within two years of the public life of Bulgaria. He wasn't there! We cannot say and enjoy this economic growth that we currently have. Each economy in the world has different economic growth. Emerging economies have one, the middle-developed another, and the weak-growing third. We must compete to have far higher economic growth if we want to have money to spend then not only on social payments, but also on infrastructure, for defence and for all other activities, including education. We can't pour funds into unreformed systems. I have an appeal to my colleagues from the Reformation Block. They had at the beginning a programme with which they wanted a 10% cut and administrative reform. I remember colleagues from the Reformation Bloc who wanted this tribune to be provided with a reference, did this reform actually take place, do we have it, do we have an e-government? Have we worked in the direction of reducing these costs so that we can transfer the money to considerably more needed for our society? I'll tell you one last thing, colleagues. This budget, whether it passes or not, is our responsibility whether we play with people's fears or not. If the Prime Minister has said they have 3 billion more than contraband in 2016, and, respectively, the request for an example increase in pensions 800 and a billion, then in the Prime Minister's words, we have money for at least two years. Why not continue in the same spirit each year to raise more money than smuggling? That's what we're after. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u43	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Milen Mihov, after him the people representative Martin Dimitrov and after him the people representative Valentin Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I will stop and express my personal attitude on the part of the state budget for education and science. At first glance, the increase in the costs of science to 3,6%, along with the costs of the Operational Programme to 3.8, is enjoyable. However, at the same time, the budget forecast for the next two years suggests freezing these costs, even their slight reduction. If we compare these costs with the costs of the previous year, unfortunately, we will find that an extremely low level of funds is maintained for education and science from the gross state product within the last 15 years. It is a public fact that this situation is a factor of our economic distress, of stagnation and of a factor in the opposite direction if it is increased for the development of this economy. There are some good things in the education budget that we cannot ignore - 100 million planned to increase wages in secondary education; increased funds to support Bulgarian schools abroad. But we have to say something very important that the Ministry of Education and Science did not end, resulting from the new Preschool and School Education Act. It has not prepared and has not yet announced the state-education standards for funding institutions in pre-school and school education, which should enter into force since 1 January, because it is not only the issue of the amount of funding, but also the way these funds are distributed as key for the development of the economy. Next, a problem in higher education is the lack of promises from Minister Kuneva analysis of the impact of changes in the Law on Higher Education on the financing of higher schools. Finally, I would stop because of the short time of the problem of financing Bulgarian science. Mr. Goranov made an appeal that science should be sold to win. At the risk of being edifying, I would remind you that at the end of the 19th century engineers such as Tesla, Popov and Marconi invented, discovered the radio, but for the first time a mass radio was sold in 1920 in Detroit. John Atanasov discovered the computer in the 1940s, but in 1978 he was the first mass computer to sell. In this sense, science and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences cannot be viewed as a factory that should produce a scientific product with a direct market application tomorrow. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That is why we will propose amendments to the Law in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement there is the word of the people representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies ministers, honourable colleagues! At the end of the year, 10 years of membership of the European Union for Bulgaria and Romania is a good occasion for reckoning. In these 10 years, Bulgaria has achieved exactly twice as much convergence as Romania. Budget policy is very important in this sense, so I would like to briefly point out the problems that remain unresolved and which we all need to think about from now on. First of all, why after 8 years of budget deficit in a row, 2017 is one of 1.4%, provided that the 2016 budget will end with a balanced balance? It doesn't make sense and there's no reason, it's not a good policy. It's like you've been listening to a colleague's statements from this morning from BSP, who wanted double taxes, increasing redistribution. Isn't he supposed to be a centre-right government? Why is there such a deficit next year? And he, by the way, is very dangerous not to be increased by proposals between first and second readings. May reason prevail and not make nonsense. Next, real reform is what happened in the energy sector from the 700 million deficit of NEK this year NEK should end with 12 million. lv. profit, or 700 million. lv. Loss of 12 million lv. profit. Why did the Ministry of Finance not install the measuring instruments of the producers of alcohol and cigarettes for two years, as we recorded in the Law on excise duties? What is he doing for two years, not making the necessary notification to install the appliances? And how can the Ministry of Finance talk about reforms in this situation?! 10% collection rate from CCB, fellow Members, I'm sorry, but it's a complete failure. It is a failure of the state to deal with the problem and to return a significant part of the money. That is why we wanted the international investigation to be committed to returning funds and not just to writing reports. The Ministry of Finance refused to do so. The result, in the Minister's words, is that about 10% will be returned to the bankruptcy table, which, sorry, is not a job well done. Finally, honourable Members, high growth can only be achieved with predictability. It is not predictable that what is proposed, when there is a gap in the firm's cash register, it can be closed for a month. With such measures, we kill, you kill, specifically, the business. Instead, there needs to be stability, predictability, and similar deficits that have always been suggested by the BSP should not be allowed. That is why I intend not to vote on this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. For speech there is the word of the people representative Valentin Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of the National Assembly! In the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 there is an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, notice, from 1 billion to 1.5 billion, rounded, or an increase of one third. There is no other sector on our farm that has received such an increase. Of course, this is not a surprise to us, as the summer as I recall on June 2nd, we adopted with you two investment projects that are at the heart of this increase. Perhaps this is the reason why very good words are heard about the budget in the Defence Committee and it by a majority to accept it. But what do the numbers in the draft budget of the Ministry of Defence show, and why do we, with colleagues from GERB's Parliamentary Group, call you to support it? Firstly, we must support the defence budget for 2017 because it is the largest since 2010. Of course, that alone is not enough. Secondly, because this is a budget of stability and upgrade, and if you want, I can add the word....................................................................................... After ten years of stagnation, two new large-scale investment projects are financed to acquire a new battle plane. I agree, Mr. Mihov, it's not a fighter. I'm sure they got the wrong word in the budget, but there aren't that many specialists in the room. The project is for a new type of combat plane, as well as for the acquisition of a multifunctional patrol ship for the Navy. Next, we must support this budget because it is a consistent government policy to gradually increase the budget of the Ministry of Defence. Let me remind you that for last year he reached 1.35% of gross domestic product, and this year with the numbers at stake reached 1.63%, or if we add that 20 million to the Bulgarian Medical Academy, the Finance Ministry specified that it became 1.66% of gross domestic product. We must support this defence budget because the policy of the government, dominated by the Political Party GERB, is continuing to meet the Union commitments set out at the summit in Wales. You know that it was in September 2014, then in 2015. The opinion and recommendations of the Defence Advisory Council with the President, where the next years were adopted by 2024, to reach 2% and not less than 20% of these funds to go for investment. With this, these two parametres, which may be the best qualitative and quantitative measures, determine our contribution from individual countries to the collective security of the Alliance, which Bulgaria does. Next, we must support the defence budget for 2017, because this budget satisfies the implementation of the priorities for the development of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria of several governments of the whole political spectrum, which is in line with the Euro-Atlantic orientation of the country. Thus, the country gives us a clear signal to our partners that we are determined to carry out our allied maintenance obligations, and I quote a verbatim article. 3 of the North Atlantic Treaty... of our individual capacities...................................................................................................... You must remember that text in a report where Bulgaria has become a consumer instead of a security donor. We're facing this discrepancy. Next, we need to support this budget, because in perspective it serves to attract in the ranks of the Bulgarian Army of quality people specialists who will serve new servicemen and any other technique related to these two major investment projects, because we could not do much in this direction for the people in the defence. We, not just us, not the previous government, but a number of governments back. We, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defense, are currently trying with this budget to correct only some of the discrepancies. They're connected, as you've heard so far from what I'm saying, to investment in defense. We must support this budget because by supporting the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2017, we agree with the trend that in today's complex geopolitical situation in the region and the world, our country's security and defence are a priority of the current government and should continue as a priority not only to the next but also to the governments after it. I wish I'd said that many times, to add that this wasn't even a priority of our election program. Before that, it wasn't a priority in our election-winning program. But in a gradually changing geopolitical environment, the government shows maturity, like the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Finance, and they set such numbers to increase the defence budget by a third, reaching a level of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes These are our arguments to support the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2017, all the more so that the three-year framework shows this. There are additional funds and are a guarantee for the implementation of these very important investment projects for the Bulgarian Army and the security of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u49	Thank you, Mr. Radev. - What's the line? I won't. The people's representative Nayden Zelenogorski has the floor for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We will support the budget. I don't want to talk about numbers. I would like to say that in early elections at the end of March or April and on an unspoken budget, this means that the state will remain without a budget for six months. [[Relations in BSP LB.]] Yeah, I know, there's an opportunity to spend a twelfth. I've run a budget many times, and I know what it's about. But this one twelfth means that there is no increase in health care, there is no increase in minimum wage, there is no increase in teachers' salaries, there is no possibility of rearming the Bulgarian army. All this means a big and heavy problem. There is no possibility of effective co-financing of European projects. I guarantee you that much of the European projects of the Bulgarian municipalities will be stopped because of the inability to finance. In parallel, it is very important to say that there is a risk that a large part of social and health systems will be put at serious risk. It seems to me that to speculate on people's fears and leave them for 6-7 months without a budget to prove how strong we can be in the parliamentary hall and how hard we can put to the test all Bulgarians and Bulgarian businesses is a price that no politician should afford to pay. Please be reasonable, please be cool at this extremely difficult time for Bulgaria. If you leave the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian society without a budget, as well as the Bulgarian municipalities for which more money is provided than last year, you will all bear this heavy political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Zelenogorski. - What's the line? I won't. The People's Representative Milena Damyanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u52	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! We will support the 2017 draft budget, first of all, because there has not been a year in which there has been such a planned growth for education funds. Since the 2017 budget, there are several things that you can see about education. First, we have increased funds for education and since the first year of the entry into force of the new Law on pre-school and school education, which very clearly shows that for us, for the government in resignation, for GERB education is a real national priority text which you and I first recorded in the Pre-school and School Education Act. I would very much like to remind you that weeks before the vote on this Law, as well as during the debates, who is not exercised on the subject of how there will be no change, how this Law is not the basis for quality education, by the way, these lines continue at the moment, how there will be no means, because the promise of them is a worn out political move and what else. The insolence reached its peak in the last few days, when colleagues on the left tried to take credit as their main merit and increase in teachers' salaries. So once again they showed that they were using the topic of education for cheap image, for dividing society. The new Law and reform, quality education, career development of teachers have always been one of the clearest and most consistent goals of the Political Party GERB. That's why last year we had an increase in education funds by 140 million, of which 80 million were paid. That is why this year is the decision of the resigned prime minister and the finance minister for investments in teachers. We are talking on average about an 8% increase in teachers' salaries and an increase in minimum salaries by 10 percent, I stress that these are the remuneration of young teachers, the remuneration with which young people start in the system, in school and in kindergarten. This, along with the freedom to decide how to work with children so as to achieve good results, is an excellent motive for them to choose education for their professional development. The draft budget also provides additional funds to secure the various policies that we have placed in the Law together with you. Three million leva are provided funds for the protected kindergartens a new policy; 9 million. lv. are the means to guarantee compensation of 10 gross salaries for the retirement of teachers; 1 million lv. are intended for the transport of students over 16 years of age, and so far, I stress, free transport was due only to students up to 16 years of age. This is important for the motivation for completing secondary education of young people in Bulgaria. An additional 6 million. lv. are intended to provide for the new support measures for children with special educational needs, and 3 million are also provided. lv. for information and communication technologies. These are only a very small part of the additional funds that the field of education receives this year. These are clear priorities in education, and not only in words, but also reflected in the budget. The education budget creates both perspective and predictability, which are the main factors for achieving stability and growth in the otherwise conservative environment of the education system. Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and Science. I would stress that for the first time Bulgaria has an operational programme, a separate Operational Programme for Science and Education, the decision for which was taken in the cabinet Borisov 1. I will also remind you of something else in the previous programming period science was excluded at all, i.e. in the Operational Programme there was no funds for science. They now amount to 560 million. lv. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is money for science. It is absolute cynicism to claim, including from this tribune, that there is no money for scientists that there is no money for research in Bulgaria. I will not say how important a priority for one country is science and innovation, but I will mention that with the 2017 budget project, the estimated funds increase compared to 2016 by 37.9 million. BGN, of which 19.5 million lv. is the growth of expenditure with a national budget source and 17.1 million. lv. are the funds of the European Union funds accounts in connection with the launch of the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth." With the increase of the costs of science are provided funds to increase the remuneration of the employees of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences by 5 million. BGN, implementation of activities on the National road map for scientific infrastructure in Bulgaria, amounting to 7 million. BGN, providing access to full-text international databases with scientific publications "7 million." lv. I can continue with the additional funds provided for in the budget, but I think yesterday's report was comprehensive enough, even though there were no MPs in the House to hear it, I think all other comments are unnecessary at this time. It is clear that policies should be made in education, not politics, and this is the responsible government attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I can't help but specify that for science there is not enough money from the country's budget for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. There should be funds in the budget to maintain the minimum scientific capacity, because the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" will start working perhaps in a year. And until then? Scientists need more support between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u55	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u56	Dear Associate Professor Velikov, I will repeat what is written in the report of the Commission and what was specified by the representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science during the Commission and I also stressed it a little while ago. With the draft budget, the funds for science amount to 37.9 million. lv. Of which, 19.5 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. BGN, I repeat about you, obviously you didn't listen well, are the funds from the Operational Program. So let's not turn off the Operating Program and not tell the black white. With regard to the funds to BAS, I would say that for 2017, the planned funds amount to 78, 3 million. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u57	It's not enough!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u58	As far as I understand it, you will make proposals between first and second readings. I hope you point out the source from which to take these funds and as a right-thinking person this is not at the expense of the deficit. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u59	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Any other speeches from the time groups? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm addressing all of you. There is no reason to be ashamed of the proposed budget. There's not a single wrong policy at stake here. The proposed bill must be supported because this is not the budget of the MPs. [[Heckling]] In its spending part, yes, it reflects the priorities of its outgoing government. This is the budget of Bulgarian citizens and they need it. Support this good budget for next year. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u61	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, No 602-01-64, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 October 2016, including a Draft for a budget of the judiciary, drawn up by the Supreme Judicial Council, the Commissions of the National Assembly propose that the draft should not be supported by a first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-18.u62	Please call off the vote. They voted 161 MPs: for 4, against 36, abstention 121. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. with an opinion of the Council of Ministers under art. 1 and 2. I would like to recall the proposal of the Budget and Finance Committee. This Bill is supported and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 with the opinion of the Council of Ministers. We vote. Vote 171 MPs: 102, against 58, abstention 11. The proposal has been adopted and the State Budget Bill for 2017 has been adopted in the first vote. Due to the implementation of our weekly programme for the legislative part of parliament, before I announce the end of today's plenary session, next Wednesday, 23 November 2016, 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
