ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! Please take your seats and register. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, allow me to present to you a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 9 November to 11 November 2016: 1. Draft decision on the work of the National Assembly in November 2016. The contributors are the MPs Borislav Velikov and Boris Yachev, on 8 November 2016. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importers are Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs on 8 October 2015. The first vote was adopted on 24 February 2016. 3. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of electronic communications 2015 The Reporter is the Communications Regulation Commission on 20 June 2016. 4. Annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services. "Analysis on the market of postal services 2015.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Importer is Communications Regulation Commission, 20 June 2016. 5. Second vote on the Independent Financial Audit Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. Adopted in first vote on 14 July 2016, sequel. 6. Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2014 and Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2015. The importer is the Commission for Protection of Competition on 26 May 2015 and 27 May 2016. Please vote on the proposed draft programme. Vote 149 MPs: 117 against 6, abstention 26. Our work schedule for the week has been accepted. Proposal for inclusion in the agenda under art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 50, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose to be included as a point in the upcoming weekly program of the National Assembly from 9 to 11 November 2016. Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on the declaration of the Communist regime in Bulgaria as criminal. The entry number is 654-01-8, submitted by Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and a group of MPs on 27 January 2016. The proposal is by the MPs Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! With my colleague Metodi Andreev, we have proposed an important bill which may have matured for a year in the National Assembly. As you have heard, it is about the Law for declaring the communist regime in Bulgaria criminal. This Law has been operating since 2000, it very faithfully says what damage the communist regime has done to the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian nation, but at the same time does not say or take any action towards the consequences of these severe welded events. What we propose is, first of all, in schools, in universities to really study the truth about this regime so that young people can know, for 27 years after the end of the communist regime in Bulgaria, really what it has done to the Bulgarian nation. Also, what we are proposing is that remnants of this regime be removed in due course. If it is a matter of value items, they should go to the museum, but not in all different places to stand artifacts from the one declared criminal, I stress the regime declared criminal by law, to stand artifacts and different people to go and worship them, and to praise the communist regime that has done these severe damage to our country. [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Since, of course, I hear various calls from the left side: "Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa And the modern dimensions are this, for example, to hear the vote of the Bulgarian people in a referendum, and not as on the left suggested to ban the holding of a referendum with elections. In the modern world, being an anti-communist means not keeping people in queues waiting abroad to vote in front of embassies, but it means creating an electronic vote and they can, like in a normal European country where there was no communism, vote. There are many other dimensions of modern anti-communism, but in order for it to really happen in our country, we must have appreciated history properly, we must have overcome the consequences of it, and this is also done through the amendments that we propose with colleague Andreev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. We vote on the proposal for inclusion as the item on the agenda of the proposals Draft by the MPs Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov. Vote 142 MPs: 88, against 38, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period 26 October "8 November 2016" On 26 October 2016, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is responsible for: the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. On 27 October 2016, the Law on Volunteering entered. Importers are Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. It is allocated: the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the lead. On 27 October 2016, a project for a decision for an organization for accommodation in an indoor hostel of all immigrants illegally crossing the state border of the Republic of Bulgaria was received. Importers are Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, to the Committee on Foreign Policy and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 27 October 2016, a Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 January 2016 was received. The Reporter is the Board for Electronic Media. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. On 31 October 2016, a Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017 was adopted. The lead is the Committee on Budget and Finance. The Committee on Health is co-ordinated. On 31 October 2016, a Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. The Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to all other committees in the National Assembly. On 31 October 2016, a Draft Law on the State Social Security Budget for 2017. The importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is attached. On 31 October 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is attached. On 1 November 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. On 1 November 2016, a Bill for Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Legal questions have been distributed to the Commission. On 3 November 2016, a Draft Law on the ratification of Protocols amending the Agreement on the Establishment of the International Investment Bank and its Statute entered into force. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Commission is accompanied by legal questions and the Committee on Foreign Policy. On 3 November 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act was adopted. Importers are Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. On 4 November 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. The Committee on the Environment and Waters and the Committee on Agriculture and Food are accompanying. On 7 November 2016, a Law amending the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Act was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. It is also assigned to the Committee on Education and Science. On 7 November 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. She is the lead of the Committee on Culture and Media. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds are accompanying. On 8 November 2016, a Draft Law for the ratification of the Amendment to the Loan Agreement was adopted "Project for the Development of Municipal Infrastructure" between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development from 1 February 2010. The Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is attached. On 8 November 2011, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Efficiency Act was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The bill is yet to be distributed. On 8 November 2016 a draft decision was received in relation to the work of the National Assembly in November 2016. The representatives of the National Assembly are the representatives of the National Assembly Borislav Velikov and Boris Yachev. We're about to look at it. Messages. On 1 November 2016 with entry No 639-00-17, the National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 September 2016. "24 October 2016, and Protocol No 45 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By letter the Report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 2 November 2016, with entry No 656-24-1 in the National Assembly, a statement was received from the Fiscal Council on the Draft Budget of State Social Security for 2017. By letter the Opinion was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and was available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received materials from the National Statistical Institute containing statistical research results on: a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at producer prices on the domestic market for September 2016; the business climate in industry, construction, trade and services in 2016; conducted in October 2016. Consumer Observation and Information for September 2016 on the following indicators: - R &amp; D indexes in the section of the R & D &amp; D &amp; B; - indexes of industrial production; - Indexes of construction production. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION ON THE WORK OF THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION IN NOVEMBER 2016 On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly we submit a draft decision on the work of the National Assembly in November 2016 Importers are Assoc. Borislav Velikov and Boris Yachev. I'll introduce you to the Project Decision: Project! DECISION in relation to the work of the National Assembly in November 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 74, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. The National Assembly shall not hold plenary meetings for the period from 9 November to 11 November 2016 inclusive. 2. For the period from 9 November to 11 November 2016, including the Members of the National Assembly shall not use official transport from the National Assembly except for the days in which they participated in meetings of the parliamentary committees. Next up are the signatures of the importers. You have the floor, fellow Members. Mrs Cornelia Ninova has the floor for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You're making two huge mistakes. The first, you did not hear what three and a half Bulgarians told us on Sunday. [[Strong noise in GERB.]] You didn't hear the voice of those people who said, "We don't like you." We want you to work more, not spend so much money on ours, which we pay you as salaries and subsidies, and work not for your personal enrichment and party interest, but for us, for our people and for our interests. What do you suggest today?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u5	It's on the agenda, Mrs. Ninova! Do it as a statement if you want, but it cannot be on behalf of a parliamentary group on a item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u6	Okay, I'll follow the rules. Today, except you're suggesting we don't work...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u7	It's not on behalf of a group, it's a statement. Please change mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u8	You propose to see a law declaring the communist regime criminal. What are you guys doing?! The presidential candidate you're supporting, you want to declare him a criminal because he was a party secretary during that regime?! [[Strong noise in GERB.]] Do you want to declare the Prime Minister a criminal because he was a member of the party at the time?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u9	Mrs. Ninova, we haven't reached that point. [[Strong noise in GERB.]] Please speak on the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u10	I'm speaking on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u11	You can't on behalf of the group. This item is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u12	People said, "Work for us, not for your party interest." You're working for a party interest right now. Second mistake you lost on the first round, and instead of learning the lessons from this, you released fear, pressure and suggestion of instability. [[Comments from GERB, shouts, loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u13	Mrs. Ninova, I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u14	Mr. Glauchev, on what grounds will you take my word? I want to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u15	That you are speaking on behalf of a group on items on the agenda. Explain what you're doing. If you make a declaration, don't let it be on items on the agenda. Explain yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u16	From now on, I speak on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u17	Okay. Don't let it be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u18	It's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u19	Okay, you have the floor, no items on the agenda. [[Noise, lines, cheers by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u20	You lost on the first round, and instead of learning, you made the second mistake. You caused fear, pressure, instill instability and cataclysms in the country. Don't scare people! That's not gonna happen! We will not allow destabilization of Bulgaria. We are the guarantor for the peace of Bulgarian citizens, for the work of the institutions, for the respect of the Constitution. [[Noise, lines and shouts by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u21	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u22	With the fall of GERB does not fall Bulgaria, back to Bulgaria stands up. Do not make your loss a national tragedy. They were going to stop the EU funds. Who told you that, ladies and gentlemen?! [[GERB lines, noise, shouts.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u23	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u24	The totalitarian communism would return. That's where you hit the bottom of this sentence to be pronounced by a party secretary who is afraid that a non-party president will return totalitarian communism. You suggest that the interests of Bulgaria will be sold. Who does that? Foreign Minister who sold us the interest in the UN and replaced Irina Bokova with Kristalina Georgieva! Foreign Minister who signed the Agreement with Canada and sold Bulgarian agriculture and the Bulgarian economy! We were going to turn Bulgaria into a ghetto for refugees. Says who? A government which adopted Decree 208 for permanent settlement of refugees in Bulgaria for payment of their health and social insurance. [[Noise, lines, cheers by GERB.]] The choice of the 13th was a choice between left and right values. And it's coming from a deputy prime minister who was one in the left-wing government with left-wing values. Says a man who was a left-wing commissioner sent with left-wing values. What kind of split personality caught you in one night, people? It would stop the sanitization, the wood, you wouldn't pay for motherhood, you would buy votes, you would spread fear and terror. In Lovechko to the poor people you have brought to this state because you are constantly freezing income, giving away two kilos of meat and one loaf of bread. Gavra with his people. [[Loud noise, lines, voices by GERB.]] In Burgas you will stop the money for the city and in Sliven the lighting. Is that where you came from? That way you won't win the election. You're about to manipulate and forge. [[Shouting from GERB.]] This, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, is agony. The agony of a loss. But that will not be the agony of Bulgaria. This will become a new beginning and a new path for Bulgaria. Because this time the people won't allow it. Over one million or nearly one million Bulgarians have spoken: they want change! Respect the people's voice! You show disrespect to your people and he will return it to you on the 13th. They asked for a change. We offered it to them, and she'll be on the 13th, despite you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. On behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, the Chairman of the group, the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thought that today we would take a decision that would reduce political opposition so that we could concentrate next week on the main objectives set by the Bulgarian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen to the left! I want to congratulate you on the good results you achieved in the election! We must be correct when on the first round you managed to achieve this result. We don't have to dramatize the situation here. For me, it is more important for the remaining few days to have a meaningful debate and for the Bulgarian voters to make their civilized choice for the future of Bulgaria. As for the accusations of the fears we impose, I can tell you that if we go back a few months, we will remember how the Election Code was voted. We will remember that the proposals that were made at the debate by the parliamentary group in the discussions that were being held to introduce a mixed system of...... and majority, you were against. So you are against the majority element because when you introduced the majority element in 2009, you know that you actually appreciated the error you made because you know that you have no public support for your candidates. [[Applause from GERB.]] You've lost the public's trust. As far as destabilization is concerned, and what you said, Mrs. Ninova, I believe destabilization is coming from you. Let's be objective. When you talk about Sliven that we're going to cut the power, let's remember what the results were after you lost in Sliven and the inheritance you left to the current mayor - minus 40 million leva. [[Applause from GERB.]] Who's gonna pay that money? The state must intervene and the state is interfering because we have more revenue than the stability it has today. [[BSP LB lines, loud noise and loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u27	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u28	If you'll just let me finish. Everything you talked about your policies and gave as an emblem and Smolyan also left it with an inheritance of over 25 million levs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not forget what happened to KTB. KTB is only two years ago and this was in your term of office with Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski. Let's be objective. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u29	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u30	As for the refugee ghetto, let me remind you that your political campaign began precisely by playing with people's fears. And when you saw what your MEPs did in Brussels, then you actually gave back and wondered how to explain yourself. Ms. Ninova, you said you would call the MEPs to give you a report. [[Applause from GERB. Noise, lines, shouts by BSP LB.]] Did you call Mr. Stanishev?! Did you call your candidate for Vice President Iliana Yotova?! Did you call her?! What explanations did she give you about this resolution that you signed and which you supported? You do realize that this is a double face that you show to the public. When you talk about sanitizing, yes, people have concerns that actually sanitization can stop. [[Noise, cheer, BSP LB lines.]] Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u31	Please don't enter the dialogue from the room!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u32	Ms. Ninova and honourable colleagues on the left, you have had the opportunity to make and offer the public such a policy in your management mandate. Because this was Delyan Dobrev's idea in 2013, when we were doing our management program, only we didn't have the opportunity to have a second consecutive management mandate because with the Kostinbrod manipulations, with the people's fear game, you managed to make a government. [[Applause from GERB.]] Let's remind ourselves that we were working in conditions of enclosures, of a police presence that was too much, and we didn't have the police presence in small towns that was necessary. Let us not forget this fact, because sanitization is possible to continue when we have a good enough fiscal policy when we have enough revenue in the budget and the government has proved that there is this revenue. Let's remember what deficit you left for the government. Let us remember what the current deficit is forecast for 2017. "E" is 1.4. [[Applause from GERB.]] Let us recall that, in fact, the money that collects more in the budget will go to the sanitization. But you can't raise any more money because you spend unwarrantedly and do it in a way that you actually owe the state and then, when another government comes, we try to get your credit back and you make your populist speeches. [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] It is more important for me to concentrate on today's programme because there is one point in the programme and I think it is very important to accept it because of the absence of meetings this week, to hold an extraordinary meeting on Tuesday next week, to make extended working hours on Friday for parliamentary control, so that you have no reason to talk here that we do not really want to sit down and that we want to abdicate from our legislative activity. We want to work legislatively, we want to adopt laws that are in the public interest, not to be under the influence of populism and those untruths that you are constantly speaking. [[Applause from GERB.]] I'm sure we all need to concentrate on how to get to people. As far as the referendum is concerned, I can tell you that from the Political Party GERB and the parliamentary group we are considering an option to support all the decisions that have been made and then see what you will explain to the Bulgarian citizens when we introduce the majority element entirely. Because you were against it and let's remember who were the biggest defenders of the thesis not to have a referendum. You were those from the parliamentary group of BSP LB. Recall it and let us remind it together to the Bulgarian voters. Because there are transcripts of the meetings that were held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Applause. Noise. People's representative Cornelia Ninova wants the floor.]] I'm asking for order in this room. I can't understand what Mrs. Ninova wants.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u34	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u35	I won't give you a personal explanation of a statement. [[Noise and lines from GERB: Personal explanation of a declaration cannot! You can't! Replies from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u36	I won't give you a personal explanation of a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u37	Then I will bypass the Rules of Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u38	It's the way it's supposed to be, but to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u39	Yes. To you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u40	To me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u41	Mr. Glauchev, I counted in seventeen minutes or as many minutes as Mr. Tsvetanov speaks. [[GERB noise and lines]] , twenty-one lies. Twenty-one lies!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u42	It has to be to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u43	Mr. Tsvetanov, keep driving! This arrogance has brought you here. [[Noise GERB.]] Most importantly, whatever you say, the people have spoken respect for their people!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u44	Mrs. Ninova, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u45	Your people said, "You're losing." [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u46	Any other affidavits? I won't. We are moving on to a debate on the first item on the agenda. At point one, there is the national representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I think it is good to master all your emotions, because today is not a day for the parliamentary tribune to be used for another election play. Today, however, is a day when we still have to say a few of the truths that are hidden. I will not abuse the overwhelmingly good result of the United patriots, because we must be in a very strong position that although in these two years it was done very little, let us not forget that 2014 Bulgaria was practically bankrupt, with a bankrupt bank that robbed over 3 billion and a half, with pending unguarded deposits of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u48	On the draft decision, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u49	This is exactly on the Project Decision.. I make motivation why and how we will vote on this bill, Mr. Glauchev. That's part of my motivation. Follow my point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u50	It's hard for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u51	These are the things that must not be forgotten. However, there is something very important. The first important thing is that during these two years, honourable Members, governance has carried out an extremely weak social policy. This social policy is led by a deputy prime minister and a minister who achieved only 3%, but the result of this weak social policy was clear and prominent. First of all, the inability of Bulgarian citizens to reach the retirement stage at all. Forty years of internship is impossible to achieve in our terms. This thing, however, was supported by BSP left Bulgaria and it must not be forgotten. Besides, when we proposed an increase in the minimum pension of 300 BGN. in budget 2016, notice, those who first jumped against were "BSP left Bulgaria." That's good to know. The same so-called socialists were more right-wing than the right-wing ones I congratulate unanimously supported this proposal. Stenograms are clear and well-known. We have to say these things because, I repeat, despite the successes achieved, the Bulgarian people continue to live poor with extremely low incomes, only for this they contribute both from the left and from the right and from the center. That is why the Bulgarian people in these elections said: "No, we do not support it! " - Yes, he has not supported in any case BSP because they do not participate in the elections. They don't have the right to speak today because they don't have a candidate of their own. A candidate has some kind of initiative committee. Why would I support this Decision Project today? Because once again, I do not believe that this tribune should be an object for another election statement, and this tribune should not be an occasion for the adoption of another lobbying law as one of these lobbying laws, Mr. Tsvetanov, was introduced through the Employment Promotion Act and your colleagues, together with BSP, supported the draining of hundreds of millions of Bulgarian money by the Bulgarian taxpayer, which will be spent next year. The Bulgarian people understand this, see it and give their assessment, and it is not pleasant for those who are supposedly divided into left and right, and when another lobbying law is to be passed, they accept it. So it was with the Law on Public Procurement, so it was with the Law on concessions, which is currently standing somewhere in the dusty shelves, so it is with this Law on Copyright, which now a clerk is trying to push, and the genesis of this Law also comes from the left-hand side of the BSP, and there aims to drain over 300 million. lv. by the Bulgarian taxpayer. All this must be known by the Bulgarian people. Be humble, don't raise your heads, don't brag, because there is a very important issue if the government resigns tomorrow, the big question is: with whom will they rule BSP? [[(Noise and lines from GERB:]] Are they going to bring back this DPS that we spent two years scraping from power? Does he want the left oligarchy to bring back the Oligarchy from DPS to power? Is that not their goal? That's the truth! [[Applause, noise and lines from GERB: "Bravo."]] These truths must be told. Since for us the media are sealed, we have the censorship imposed, we have no means to pay the media to tell this truth to the Bulgarian people, today I am forced to say it here, from this highest tribune of the National Assembly, and to remind once again that Bulgaria is the Republic of Parliament. These are the objectives of the left-wing millionaire oligarchy, which seeks to restore that oligarchy from the DPS, which we have spent two years scraping, and never again has the DPS been stuck in the corner like in those two years. I hope that in a few months, when you make this attempt to restore the model.Who?., to return the DPS, unfortunately, we will still have to bypass the center of Sofia because the Bulgarian people are not so stupid and do not see what you intend to do and what you will do.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u52	Please return to the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u53	That's the truth. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Personally, I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u54	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Are there any lines? I won't. The word has the MP Yanaki Stoilov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u55	I'll wait, Mr. Chairman, for the necessary silence to come, or the MPs who are on the side, to sit down or leave the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u56	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. The Quaestors, please place the MPs in their seats.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u57	Could you, Mr. Chairman, ask the Members of the National Assembly to sit in their seats or leave the Chamber if they are not interested in this discussion? [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u58	I ask the MPs to take their seats in the hall and provide normal atmosphere for work!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u59	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will base an opinion of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria..................... why we will not support the draft decision but for the work of the National Assembly this week. Why does Parliament have to work? I will begin with the counterargument that almost always in recent years in such cases the National Assembly has not met. Yeah, that's right. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u60	Excuse me, Mr. Stoilov. [[Loud noise.]] Dear colleagues, please, if you have conversations, step outside the room so that you can work properly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u61	I understand that the majority of Members of the National Assembly consider this matter to be pre-solved and insignificant, but let us still have the opportunity to present our arguments. I would like to stress that today's traditions are not what they used to be. They are not like this, not because we want or do not want, but because, if you have not noticed, there are sharp and profound changes in the attitudes of many Bulgarian citizens in terms of politics. And they do not simply come down to the support of some or other candidates, but reflect lasting attitudes that will most likely develop in the coming months and years. I will not deviate from the subject, as long as this does not have to justify what we should be dealing with and I do not want to go into controversy for people who may not have noticed, telling us some things that they do not originate only from Bulgaria. The tales that oligarchy rules in one place or another are extremely limited. Do you not notice that in the form of democracy in a number of, including developed countries, oligarchic models are developing? This is not a Bulgarian patent. This already leads to increasing distrust in the institutions themselves and even in the elections as an instrument to overcome the conflicts accumulated over the decades. I will not talk about the fact that you are trying to pre-electionally replace the agenda with such points for continuing discussions on the Communist regime's Declaration of Criminality Act, not by accident about 20 years after its adoption. Because its initiators, if they wanted this to be a law, would include some of the consequences you are proposing today, but then under the blows of this Law they would also fall part of its initiators, including today's advocates. And it is much more convenient when a political declaration has essentially been in effect for many years, you are now transforming it into some kind of half-law, which is far from actual, but historical significance. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my opinion, you yourself should propose changes to the agenda you are entitled to and one of the points should be a discussion on the issues that were the subject of the referendum held during the past Sunday. In my opinion, the National Assembly should adopt a declaration or decision this week to state, in principle, its intentions on how it intends to deal with what the law dictates to it. I'm not going to get into the discussion on the ground. This is indeed a separate and important topic, but in any case this result, whether the referendum is valid or close to these borders, should give guidance on how Parliament will address the overwhelming opinion expressed by Bulgarian citizens. Because it is not enough today to say who will support or not support these proposals, but to show that these results represent profound changes with difficult foreseeable consequences. As in Britain, parliament and government could not fail to comply with the popular vote, albeit particularly controversial, so the Bulgarian Parliament must show what action it will take. And that probably can't happen without starting the discussion of a new Election Code. How exactly he will express the will of Bulgarian citizens is already a matter of discussion, but I believe that the lack of a quick reaction by the National Assembly will strengthen the pressure on the institutions, will eroticise trust in these institutions and may deepen the political crisis, regardless of the upcoming outcome of the presidential elections next Sunday. Another topic that is important to discuss at this stage only in the Committee on Foreign Policy is the results of the elections in the United States of America and their impact on the security and development of global policy. I think that without adopting any decision, it is good to gather information, to hear different opinions and this also to help in the formation of the Bulgarian foreign policy in the coming months. These are only part of it, but the most important topics our National Assembly should be dealing with these days. Because today, anyway, the shootings have passed for the various interpretations of the elections for president of the first round, they will continue the campaign anyway, mainly media, nothing prevents the MPs from dealing with the most important issues and we will show that we meet the expectations of the vast majority of Bulgarian citizens that they want, once there is a constantly active parliament, this Parliament to work and deal with what is most important to them. That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will reject the proposal for non-existent days in the National Assembly, so that no plenary meetings are held, and we call on other MPs to support this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Let me introduce you once again to the Project for a solution that has been proposed to us by colleagues Borislav Velikov and Boris Yachev. ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the work of the National Assembly in November 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. Art. 74, Art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. The National Assembly shall not hold plenary meetings for the period from 9 November to 11 November 2016 inclusive. 2. For the period from 9 November to 11 November 2016, including the Members of the National Assembly shall not use official transport from the National Assembly, except for the days in which they participated in meetings of the parliamentary committees. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 154 MPs: for 107, against 44, abstention 3. The draft decision has been adopted. Before closing today's meeting in accordance with the decision that has just been adopted, let me tell you that a meeting with today's agenda was unanimously agreed on Tuesday at 1:00 p.m. at the Chairman's Council. This will be done by order of the President, as it is easier technically. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u63	Mr President, on the basis of this proposal, which you announced just now, I think we should still reconsider whether at 1 pm and why not do it at 2 pm, because I assume that all the committees that will be postponed in today, on tomorrow, will be able to schedule their respective extraordinary committees meetings of 10, 11, 12 so that they can be completed by 2 pm.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u64	Thirteen o'clock is fine!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-09.u65	Would anyone mind if it was at 2:00 so it'd be more comfortable to conduct committees? Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I will take into account the proposal in the order to be placed by the President. Thank you. The next regular meeting is on the 16th of 9.00, and for the overtime you will receive an additional message. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
