ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! Please take your seats. Registration mode. We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before we move on to the announced parliamentary control, we have one vote since yesterday. If I may, I'll introduce you to: Project! DECISION on reports on the activities of the Commission on the interaction of non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 39, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts reports on the Commission's activities on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints at the 43rd National Assembly for the periods: December 2014 "May 2015" (June 2015) "December 2015 - January 2016 - June 2016" Voting regime, honourable Members. They voted 126 MPs: 120, none, abstention 6. The decision's been made. New questions for the period 9 September 2016: There has been a request from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski to Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Home Affairs, on the policy led by the Bulgarian government and the Ministry of Interior, related to the protection of the life and health of citizens travelling on the roads of Bulgaria, as well as the measures for increasing road safety. The reply should be made in plenary on 30 September 2016; It is a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Dora Ilieva Yankova to Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy, on the policy of absorption of EU funds for the programming period 2014 - 2020. Written answers: - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to five questions from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - from the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to four questions by the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to four questions from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova to three questions from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - by the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva, to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev and Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Dubov; - by the Minister of Culture Vezhdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - by the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov. Moving on to today: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The first question is to Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for Home Affairs, who will answer a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin concerning doubts about the inefficiency of the control of the Bulgarian borders. Here you are, dear Mr. Vigenin, to develop My question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u2	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm starting my question by stating that it was asked in July. Due to the vacation and other commitments at the end of September comes the time for this response, but it continues to be up-to-date. I'm just going to update some of the numbers in this question. It was that the government of the Republic of Serbia decided to send additional police and military units to the Bulgarian Serb border, motivated by an increased influx of illegal immigrants from Bulgarian territory. The generalized numbers for illegal immigrants captured by the Bulgarian authorities, published on the website of the Ministry of Interior, show, in my opinion, startling ratios. Although we can say with closeness that my question is for the first six months, the trend remains in July and August, in practice the Bulgarian-Turkish border has been captured around 3500 by the end of August, and inside the country according to different data are about 5500, and only those without registration are already 3400. I'm talking about an exit to Serbia. This shows that a huge number of immigrants are freely crossing our southern border and some of them are being captured inside or at an exit, most of them actually. We can only guess how much they've crossed the country without ever being captured. This in itself casts a shadow on the claims that this border is one of the best guarded borders of the European Union. In this regard, I would like to ask you: are Serbian authorities' concerns about an increased flow through Bulgaria justified? What is your explanation for the statistics of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which shows a strong permeability of our border which should be literally sealed against the backdrop of the insistence to be accepted into the Schengen area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u4	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr Vigenin, from the time your question was asked to this day several meetings have been held with the Serbian side. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u5	Please order in the court! Sorry, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u6	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u7	I've called for order in this Chamber so they can hear what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u8	If the MPs aren't interested, we can't force them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u9	Please, I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u10	During these two meetings with the Serbian Interior Minister and two days ago with the Prime Minister of Serbia, concerns about the way the Bulgarian border is guarded were not expressed. We have a readmission agreement with Serbia and the number of applications for readmission, i.e. those from Bulgarian to Serbian border, are 116 people. The figures you mention do not take into account the fact that I have had the opportunity to explain several times that we register the detentions but do not register the people. There are people who are trying to cross the Serbian border up to 10 times, usually two, three, five, ten times. The fact that at the moment our centers are almost 90% filled shows how effective our actions in preventing secondary movements are. There is one indicator of the efficiency of border guards. Those are the preemptive attempts. I can tell you that for the period you are quoting, there are 22 783 attempts to cross the Bulgarian border, of which 20 456 are prevented. For the same period last year there are approximately 30 thousand. We're down 30%. The performance indicator for border guards is exactly this figure. As for the refugees we are holding at an exit and without registration, yes, these are people who have passed illegally, we have never said that the border is 100% impenetrable. If you have the opportunity to go to the regions, especially around Malko Tarnovo, you will make sure that there is no physical possibility to even observe the continuation of this border. That is why our main efforts are in depth in the country's territory, in a larger perimeter than the border and in the settlements, especially in Sofia, where to keep illegal migrants. Again, we have no concerns expressed by the Serbian side at our meetings and the assessment that the Bulgarian-Turkish border is being kept extremely well is not ours, but our colleagues and partners from the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u11	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vigenin, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I have had the opportunity to hear some of your explanations on these cases. It seems to me that it is unacceptable for people, as you say, to pass, to try 10 times to cross the Bulgarian border and to continue against them not to impose any sanctions. If necessary, we may need to change the Law, because any attempt at illegal crossing the border is a violation. How come they're being held back, taken back where, after they're lawbreakers, and then they're still trying to get through? For me, it is the least surprising that it is possible at all. If the law does not allow you, let us change the law to ensure that such people will make only one attempt and then remain detained, will be tried for an attempt for illegal crossing of the Bulgarian border. Of course, there is some improvement in statistics, but compared to last year, for example, the total detention of third-country nationals has decreased by 30%, but those detained at the entrance to our state border have decreased by almost 50%. So there is a certain doubt here that something is wrong along the Bulgarian borders and more people remain not at the border, not at the entrance in the country, but inside and at the exit. You should consider, in this situation, strengthening the capacity. And in this regard, perhaps as a supplementary question, an informal summit is being held today. Before leaving, the prime minister said he would insist and expect to receive 160 million. euros in support of Bulgaria now, immediately. Can you explain in what direction, what these funds are needed for, when do you expect them? Because this is really a significant amount, but I don't know what and how you plan to absorb it first. Secondly, what is the expected technical support and support in living force, conditionally speaking, in the coming weeks and months by our partners, which will help Border Police and Bulgarian services in ensuring the security of the Bulgarian borders? And in this regard, do you think it is an adequate explanation, which the Prime Minister gave a long time ago, that a large part of those captured inside the country pass not through the Bulgarian-Turkish border, but through the Bulgarian-Greek, but after being captured they say they have passed through the Bulgarian-Turkish border? This is the thesis of the Turkish side, which the prime minister confirmed. Do you have any evidence that this is true? Because my impressions, at least from the region in which I was elected, are not exactly that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u14	Dear Mr. Vigenin, yes, the law gives us no reason to limit the movement of the people who have entered our territory and have requested status. That is why we have tabled a proposal in the Law on Asylum and Foreigners to set a perimeter in which they can move, and I very much hope that it will be adopted. As regards the outcome of our recent actions and contacts with representatives of other countries and representatives of the Commission, three applications of a total of 160 million were sent yesterday to the European Commission with the assurance that the main part of them will arrive in Bulgaria very soon. We have requested technical assistance, assistance to build video surveillance systems and operational assistance to be used as soon as possible. We have the assurance that this has been heard. Such a request was sent only a few months ago for a slightly lower amount. It wasn't answered to him. Now we have reason to put it back on. And we have a positive opinion on this request. We expect the total number of Frontex officers to come into our territory soon to be 200. It was explained to me that the service itself is being reorganized, the mandates are changing. It will be answered as soon as possible and will come with the necessary technique, including trained dogs to help us. We're expecting up to 200 people. I think our efforts have been working on two lines in recent years, first of all, Bulgaria's position is being heard; secondly, Bulgaria has come into the focus of the attention of the European leaders and the European Commission; and thirdly, there are concrete results from them, which we will soon have the opportunity to show.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group People's representative Stefan Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! On September 18th, Sunday, for the first time in Bulgaria will celebrate a Day in memory of the dead bikers and in support of the injured riders. This is an initiative of the BMM web magazine and the social campaign We are people and not donors, which was supported by bike clubs, motorcycle organizations and associations in different cities, as well as by our parliamentary group. With this, the Bulgarian motto society is included in several countries of initiative each year on the third Sunday of September at the same time in different places in the country to pay tribute to the victims of the catastrophes. The statistics on motorcycle crashes are getting blacker and blacker. I thank Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova and Interior Minister for the data provided by your employees very expressly. For 2013 motorists participated in 484 crashes, died 47, 503 were injured. In 2014, there were 424 passengers who died, 455 injured. In 2015, 50 and 522 were injured in 494 traffic accidents. For the first 8 months of this year, we have 385 traffic accidents, 30 deaths, 406 injured road users. In just 24 hours at the beginning of this week, we have 7 traffic accidents and 2 bikers dead. The numbers are black or in the last four years we have 160 lives that have been interrupted and 1886 people are injured, some of them with permanent disabilities. The fact is that there are foolish bikers, but there are also many foolish drivers. The fact is that riders are regular road users, along with drivers, pedestrians and cyclists, but it is also a fact that bikers are more vulnerable on the road. That is why we want to attract public attention and combine our efforts to adequately focus all participants in the road movement on motorists, increase the road culture in Bulgaria, reduce the aggression on the road. Until now, participation in the initiative "September 18" is confirmed by motorcycle organizations from Burgas, Varna, Pazardzhik, Petrich, Plovdiv, Sofia, Stara Zagora, Targovishte, Yambol and other cities of the country. The celebration of this day will take place in the same way in these cities. We call on all participants humbly, with respect, both to those who have died and to those who have survived to mark this day. We, as MPs, are obliged to establish a legal basis in which sufficient legislative measures can be put in place to prevent traffic accidents, because life has priority, whether on two or four wheels.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. We continue with the questions to the Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova. The question that follows is from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov about the personnel provision of the activities in the structures of the Ministry of Interior. Dear Mr. Belemezov, you have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! According to the government's Program for Sustainable Development of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2018, Chapter Twentyth Security and Public OrderSupports the implementation of objectives related to the optimization of the Ministry of Interior activities. The main measures laid down in the government programme concern organizational, structural and personnel provision of activities and structures in the Ministry of Interior. In this regard, Madam Minister, I would like to ask you the following regarding the personnel provision of the structures in the Ministry of Interior at the level of the Ministry of Interior and Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior in the country: how many are announced numbers through a competition from the beginning of the year until now and what is the number of candidates for them? According to the personnel deficit, how many police officers are planning to appoint the Ministry of Interior in total for 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u20	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Belemezov, your first question. During the period from the adoption of the Ministry of Interior Act in 2014 to the amendments and additions in 2015, the competitive start for career growth in the Ministry of Interior was abolished. The analysis of the practice in this direction categorically confirmed the urgent need to restore competitions from executive to executive positions, from junior executive to executive positions. In due course, the regulations on the terms and conditions of a competition for transition to a higher position were adopted. The changes made ensure optimization and acceleration of the personnel process in the Ministry of Interior. The established practice of announcing vacant posts on the website of the Ministry of Interior by the heads of structures under art. 37 of the Ministry of Interior Act. The positions within each type of position under art. 143 are defined in the Classifier of the posts in the Ministry of Interior. Here are general explanations that you probably know. Your second question. Since the introduction of the competition for career growth in the Ministry of Interior in 2015 240 competitions for transition from executive to executive positions and 145 competitions for transition from junior executive to executive positions have been held. The competitive start for career growth in the Ministry of Interior is aimed at selecting professionally prepared and motivated personnel. On your third question. I think I might be answering your second question right now because they're so common. And since you're asking me about the SDVR, I'm going to tell you directly what I heard. Three contests have been announced. The first for 120 people, for whom 882 candidates have appeared. For the second competition,.. 184 posts declared for competition, the adoption of documents is ongoing. And the third one for 16 posts also continues the adoption of documents. Our common statistics are that there are announced competitions for almost all district directorates that there are seven or eight people applying for one place at the moment. It was about career growth, but in the same way you asked the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Belemezov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u22	Dear Minister, the issue of personnel security in the Ministry of Interior over the past two years has been gaining very serious public interest, as this is a matter which directly concerns the protection, rights of people and their security. And it's actually a complex question that's been trying to go against it for several years to find a solution. I hope this will be in the foreseeable future within a year or two. To bring you back to the first question, and not to the second question you answered, I would like to ask a few sub-questions, based on this statistic that you provided me: what is the number of candidates who have passed, for whom special knowledge is required, of those who passed the physical and psychological exam, the first part? Are there enough candidates for positions like: junior and senior investigating officer, scout in the Children's Pedagogical Room, driver of a patrol car? These are examples requiring special qualifications. On the other hand, what part of these candidates cover the elimination threshold for the intellectual test? Here, Madam Minister, I ask the question not whether there are candidates for the announced number of competitions, but rather: to what extent are these people motivated to apply to the Ministry of Interior system, know and know in detail the Ministry of Interior system, know what they expect of it, what they could give of themselves for the contribution of the public security system? And how much could these people really cover not only the quantitative, but also the quality measurement that the Ministry has pawned within the next year or two to cover this specific and severe problem with the impasse in the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u24	Dear Mr. Belemezov, exact figures are not available to you at the moment, but I can tell you what we found after the exams, after the first position, which usually wins the competition, there are two and third positions - people who are represented and ranked in second and third positions, who largely meet the criteria for appointment to the Ministry of Interior. Therefore, by my order, the rules have been changed, and now, as of the last month, there will be the possibility that those with results very close to the first ranked in a competition and those who have passed the psychological test successfully will be appointed in order to announce the need to take positions in the Ministry of Interior without having an additional competition. As far as motivation is concerned, it is perhaps the most complex question for an answer, because it is usually given in person. My opinion is that the strongest motivating factors are, and should be, the conditions in which policemen work and the results they achieve in their activities. That is why our efforts are directed in this direction within the limits of our budget and with European funds to ensure more equipment, teams, better working conditions. Of course, this is a long process, we cannot solve it from afar, but I hope now and with the means that we currently have the opportunity to absorb, to make great progress. That's it. As for the sense of honor, dignity and public mission, this is indeed personal motivation. Colleagues who are conducting the oral exams are also trying to establish this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u25	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. The next question is again by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov on a competition for career promotion and periodic attestations. Here you are, dear Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u26	Dear Minister, I will ask you on the first question, if possible, to provide me with a reference. Thank you for that in advance. Dear Minister, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to the Government's Programme for Sustainable Development for the period 2014 - 2018 in Priority 20.3., namely the restoration of competition for career promotion and appointment of leadership positions in the security system, as well as the system of periodic attestations, non-political pressure in the personnel policy, provides for the implementation of objectives related to the establishment of objective criteria for growth in the Ministry of Interior. The main measures laid down in the government programme concern the development and implementation of a personal evaluation system for employees in the Ministry of Interior through precise, clear, measurable and realistic criteria and indicators for personal evaluation of employees. In this regard, I would like to ask the following question: at what stage is the Ministry of Interior from the restoration of competition and does this improve the internal motivational mechanisms in the Ministry of Interior; what are the specific results; what are the specific assessment systems of the employees; to what extent have they been developed in accordance with the current state of the Ministry of Interior; do the evaluation systems create objective prerequisites for the purposeability and management of the performance of the personnel involved in annual periods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u28	Dear Mr. Belemezov, I'll give you the reference. The competitive start is strictly applied when it comes to rising from executive position to management position and I can assure you that this is the common practice of working in the Ministry of Interior. As regards the Ministry of Interior employee assessment system, it was developed on the basis of the developed official characteristics. My personal opinion is that it is necessary to go in the direction of its non-accident application, when there is a signal, or when a special evaluation committee is established for the failure of the posts, and it should become a permanent mechanism and this should be agreed with the trade unions, to see how it can be implemented. My personal impressions are that the system of upliftment is well arranged, for personnel decisions, for compliance with the competition principle, even in some cases it is a bit heavy with regard to the employees themselves, but if we have to use and impose rules, obviously this is the way. I can provide you with the reference after a while.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u29	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Belemezov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u30	Dear Minister, we will take a detailed look at this. Indeed, the subject of the purpose and personal assessment of employees is extremely important. We believe that there are several problems with the evaluation system, which I will mention very briefly, and I would be happy to look for a common solution on them. First of all, inability to really plan. The failure in all structures of the Ministry of Interior, without real views to fill the unoccupied state numbers in the next two years, is one of the reasons for inability to plan for real planning. The second is that there is no quality or at all any equipment at technical level such as uniforms, paper, toners, means of performing the duties. Thirdly, missions along the southern border and the implementation of activities lacking in the direct duties of employees who complicate this process. In fourth place, due to all these circumstances and prerequisites, each supervisor does not pay any real attention to the definition of the targets, but waits for quantitative indicators, almost to be lowered from above, or, in the last case, repeats last year's indicators with slight changes. Secondly, employees are not really involved in setting goals and indicators. This, I think, is a very serious problem that needs to be overcome. Thirdly, there is uncertainty and distrust in the evaluation system. In practice, periods and targets are determined long after the beginning of the year and for managers there is no other way than to prepare such criteria and indicators which cannot be met. Meanwhile, employees in such a working environment work for most of the year, literally on a blind date without any information about purposes, periods, or remuneration. Fourth, distortion of results. Is there really such a practice or not? In contrast to any reality, there is a tendency for a slight increase in positive results and a slight decrease in negative results. Here you have to pay particular attention to this thing. Fifth, the problem of taking account of the results achieved. Here the main problem is that in addition to the legally assigned tasks of the Ministry of Interior officials, they also perform duties described in a number of other laws, such as the assistance of private court contractors and the service of subpoenas. I don't think these are specific police duties. Sixth, there is an illogical evaluation mechanism. Seventh, there is a low amount of additional remuneration. Eighth, lack of real appeal. What we know is that the appeal is closed within the administrative authority without the possibility of judicial review. Madam Minister, I think that if we manage to improve this system, in particular you, as political leadership and the professional leadership of the Ministry of Interior, will sharply increase the motivation of the employees, we will have the opportunity to aim much more appropriately and properly, and last but not least, we will minimize the percentage of professional risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Do you have an asshole, dear Mrs. Bachvarova? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u32	Dear Mr. Belemezov, yes the individual evaluation system is extremely important. In the Ministry of Interior there is a mechanism under which monthly assessments are given for the work of the district directorates. He's giving his result. It shows a picture on different lines of activity, depending on the situation, we introduce new criteria for example work on the fight against corruption or in preventing vote buying when there are elections. But I have something else to say. You must be aware that the Bulgarian MPs are currently in an ever-enhanced military readiness. The situation at the Bulgarian border, the terrorist threats, the general situation in the country, including the political tension that is directed against the Ministry of Interior continuously, daily, every hour, much more disincentives and disturbs law enforcement officers than any other administrative procedures. Therefore, my call to all of you is, let us treat with due respect and appreciation the situation in which the employees of the Ministry of Interior are currently working! Perhaps the situation has developed gradually and we have lost sight of the real degree of tension, of the real responsibility that lies on these people's shoulders. In practice, they are in a semi-military situation in which they defend the interests of Bulgarian citizens, national security and are constantly on standby. My call is: let us respect the work of these people!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. The last question to Minister Bachvarova is from the MP Zhelyo Boychev concerning contracts for sale of state property in the center of Sofia by the district governor of Sofia. You have the floor, Mr. Boychev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Bachvarova, my question to you is as Deputy Prime Minister, who has the responsibility and responsibility to be responsible for the activities of the regional governors. The case became known as the sale of the royal stables, so I will not quote the name in more detail. But the chronology: with three consecutive contracts on the same day, the district governor of Sofia, with the method of liquidated ownership, sells the state share, which is more than 85%, in this land estate, located in the center of Sofia, a hundred meters from the building of the National Assembly. The balance of this sale is that the state is divided by 84% in this box, which is close to 7,5 acres, and receives against this 658 870 BGN. On my count, that's 90 leva. per square meter. My questions to you are as follows: have you been informed of these actions and this procedure by the district governor? Do you believe that when signing these contracts the state and public interest are protected? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u36	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, first and foremost clarification as Deputy Prime Minister I am not responsible for the district governors. It's been a long time since Mr. Kalchev was deputy prime minister and was in charge of the district governors. That's not the situation right now. If you bother, you'll see the orders that assign me responsibilities as Deputy Prime Minister. And let me inform you that there is a department of the administration of the Council of Ministers responsible for coordinating the work of the district governors. First, a very important clarification, which I notice that you are very actively using, but it is very untrue. I see it as poor awareness or incompetence of the state of government at the moment. On 29 February 2016, the Ministry of Interior received a letter from the district governor of Sofia, which provided information about a request from the regional administration for termination of the joint ownership between the commercial company and the Bulgarian State on land property with relevant identifier of the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers of the city of Sofia. I note that this is only about land, not buildings. The Ministry of Interior has no rights and property on the land of the field, which you show this interest in. The letter of the district administration has an informative nature regarding the existence of a specific request addressed to the district manager by the said company. So they're discussing some kind of deal, but it's in no way as such, as a land deal, it doesn't refer to the Ministry of Interior. The letter did not make a clear request to the Ministry of Interior for expressing consent to the sale of property Buildings in the year 2000 have been declared devoid of necessity and since then no district governor has acted on these buildings in order for the Ministry of Interior to take the necessary action on their maintenance or on the conversion of ownership. From 2004 until now, the Ministry of Interior has sent requests to the public, by the way, the text is identical for issuing acts of state ownership for the buildings managed by the Ministry of Interior, as the obligations arising from the law have not been fulfilled and private State property acts have not been issued. The last letter with the same text was sent on 28 February 2014 by Minister Yovchev. The buildings, as I said, are devoid of necessity for the Ministry of Interior and are an element of a group cultural monument for that historically developed community center. According to § 12, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Cultural Heritage Act the monument retains its status and is a real cultural value. In the light of the above facts, the Ministry of Interior did not express an opinion on the procedure for the termination of ownership of property between the State and natural or legal persons. As regards the protection of interests, I think that the State interest has been protected by the two ministers, who are related to the land deal, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which have an act of ownership on one of the buildings, and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, which are related to the status of this property. They have replied that there is a procedure under way that is contested, so they have not given an opinion. As far as the interests of the Ministry of Interior are concerned, I think that by this letter we have protected the interests of the Ministry of Interior, wanting to settle the status of property that stands in our registers, but which we are not able to dispose of in any way. I would very much like the entire campaign, which, in personal terms, has gone against me, to be the result of an oversight, not a deliberate deception of the Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Dear Mr. Boychev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I want to assure you that there is no trendiness in the questions that are being asked. I will refer to Parliamentary Control, but therefore to the inquiry: to whom to address the question of the activity of the governor, I have received the answer that such was the Rules of Procedure and the order in which functions were allocated. Otherwise, I would not allow myself to ask a question to a deputy prime minister in which I have no certainty that these actions are not within his authority. That was the only motive I had to ask you. When you refer it to an authority that is irrelevant, normally the parliamentary control of the National Assembly brings it back as unfounded and redirects it, and I have therefore asked in advance. The problem of public communication with you has come, I say, from yourself. You took the liberty of saying you didn't know about this deal. And here an agency quoted him as saying that you didn't know about this deal and that you didn't give any consent. They also took the liberty of qualifying for the party I represent that he's lying that he's deceiving. All the time, all we've been doing, commenting on this deal, is handling the documents and quoting them. That is why, after your statement, we have drawn up this document, which you have quoted, with which the governor of the district informs the Ministry of Interior that such a file has been received and gives his opinion, his view on this matter. You have developed your answer here, which reaffirms what you wrote in the letter that the need has fallen. Everything would be fine if the letter didn't end in one sentence, Madam Minister. And the sentence is this, I'm going to take the liberty of reading it so there won't be any interpretations again. The last sentence of the letter you have signed states: The realization of the above proposals is the devoid of the need of the buildings and so on will be a prerequisite for a more effective way in the possible termination of the existing ownership of land property between the State and the established owner of the property. Of course, it's not written in the realm, but however I read it, wherever I look at it, it's not.................... it's not.....................................I disagree with it................................................................................................. How your people prepare the file for you, who informed you, I hope the inspection will establish. But the big question is: from here on, the actions of the state to protect the interest and opportunities to return this property to the ptrimonium of the state, because, on the one hand, we are constantly looking for buildings in which to accommodate committees, government offices and others, we have a deficit, on the other hand, it is explained to us how, you see, the state property in the center of Sofia was a burden for the state and we have to sell it at such insane prices.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u39	You've been running out of time for over a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u40	Thank you. I apologize!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u41	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u42	Dear Mr. Boychev, I regret that from the parliamentary platform we specify such details. And now I can tell you that I wasn't informed about a deal. The letter that was sent was a letter of information and for information. It's not a letter to make a deal, and in that sense, I didn't lie or mislead. This is a regular letter by which I, as the owner, and also a conscientious owner of the Ministry of Interior, want to be arranged. From now on, how will the relationship between the state and the co-owner be settled is not the subject of my position, the position of the Ministry and anyone else. This is within the authority of the district governor. Let's read the texts correctly because, again, I tell you, the sense of conscious deception, premonition and untruth remains. Read the letter sent to us, and what we have said is that this is not about a deal at all. We inform each other. This is something that the Ministry of Interior has long wanted for the properties to be active so that it can be released from them. How will the state dispose of them afterwards is a matter of another solution. As for the buildings owned by the State, the deal will be appealed. We'll see what happens. Yeah, that's a problem, especially in the current situation. I hope that the next governor will answer this question. I don't have the authority to rule on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u43	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, for answering the question and for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions to Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science, who will first answer a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov on research policy, which is contrary to the requirements of the European Union. Professor Stanilov, order to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, your Ministry of Education and Science has developed a Project for the National Strategy for Research Development by 2025. It is formally synchronized with the requirements of such European documents for purposeful implementation of measures that will lead to the creation of a knowledge society in Bulgaria or its component of the knowledge economy. A fundamental principle in any policy is that it is directly dependent on the means it can put into place to obtain the result. In this regard, the funds you have proposed do not suggest that at the end of the period there will be a successful implementation of the Strategy to align with the European Union average level of research development. Both the European Union's Lisbon Strategy and the Europe 2020 Programme inheriting it require Member States to reach a share of at least 3% of gross domestic product as research expenditure. You were a commissioner and you know that the Lisbon Strategy could not be implemented because there were governments that were not ready to invest enough in science. This will probably be a reason not to implement the Europe 2020 Programme as well. This threshold cannot be justified if you are really looking for one, but more importantly, there were countries in 2010 that exceeded the three percent. They're mostly in northern Europe. It is no accident that there are the main revenues from the economy that are formed by high technology. In its attitude towards science and high technology, Europe is divided into two categories. The dividing line passes through the European Union average level for expenditure on science and development. Currently it is around 2,01% of gross domestic product on average for the whole of the European Union. In the Strategy you are proposing, Bulgaria should reach in 2025. 1.5%. At this point, the average of the European Union will have exceeded 2.5% and will be approaching 3%. Your proposed indicators cannot lead to the establishment of a knowledge and knowledge society in Bulgaria. It is strange why the Ministry, which should best assess the problem, does not show any ambition? It is normal for ministers of finance and power ministries to be against it, but it is not normal for the Ministry of Science to set minimalist goals. By signing a project with expenditure on science and development of 1.5%, you actually agree that Bulgaria should be in the second category of European countries and you declare, for example, associatively: I, Meglena Kuneva, agree to be a second category of Europeans, which I do not believe. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: will you further demonstrate ambition for a sharp increase in the costs of science and development that will change the country's development model? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u45	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, please come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanilov, with this question we find our rather intense conversation with you during this session of the National Assembly. Before I answer you on the substance, I would like to tell you that setting unrealistic goals offends both those who place them and those in whose name these objectives are set. I do not want to offend you or the Bulgarian scientists and especially their realistic thinking and intelligence. But we do not lack ambition in terms of science, government and my leadership. I'll tell you how it is. The strategy for research development has been discussed for months with leading Bulgarian scientists, both in the development and in the process of public discussion. A large number of proposals, critical remarks, different points of view were received, but also serious support and expertise from the Rectors Council and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The strategy is also based on the report of the International..................................................................................................... I'm putting out some goals! It took Bulgaria 14 years to raise research funds from 0.5% of GDP in 2000 to 0.8% in 2014. 14 years! To put in a strategic document goals that are not comparable to the actual situation, not only will it not be realistic but not responsible. I want to stress, which is hardly news to you that we're not going from zero, but from minus. There has been a deficit in research for six years now. Therefore, let us not consider setting realistic goals as a retreat by the Ministry from the interests of scientific activity. The achievement of even this objective, which seems minimal to you, namely 1,5% of gross domestic product by 2020. You have made a mistake in your question by saying that by 2025 you are not, it is up to the year 2020, it requires an annual growth of 11%. Let me point out that in the period 2000-2014 this growth is only 3.5%. I assure you, almost three times an increase is not an ambitious task. I'd like to draw attention to a few more important things. Let us bear in mind that Bulgaria is not a country with huge resources. When we compare with other countries, we need to keep an account of compatibility. With regard to investment in research, we are at about the same level as Greece, Malta and Slovakia, and with a lower percentage of us are Croatia, Latvia, Cyprus and Romania. I would also point out that the Ministry of Education does not hold back over the years the fact that the funds for science are insufficient. On the contrary, it has always been reflected in the reports to the budget forecasts and the draft budget. But let us not forget that the budgetary procedure is not just a matter of demanding. The budgeting process is strictly regulated. Every year, by a decision of the Council of Ministers, expenditure ceilings on ministries are adopted, including the expenditure ceiling for science at the Ministry of Education, which the Ministry takes into account. In conclusion, I'd like to tell you, Professor. Stanilov, that I appreciate and respect your strong and sincere concern for the scientific activity in Bulgaria, but I do not accept the accusation that I as a minister do not defend the interests of Bulgarian scientists. Unfortunately, however, politics are not made with wishful thinking, but with finding the best possible solution within the framework of the possible. I'm counting on your activity from now on, including when we discuss the country's budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u48	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I accept neither logic nor explanation. I'll explain why. I'll tell you how I think. The comparison of the spending of research funds with other countries on gross domestic product is an expression of government policy and not of real dimensions. The rich countries allocate a large budget and allocate 5% for research, for example. We allocate a small budget and separate again 5% - also for example. If we pursue such a policy, we will have very good results, but we do not have such a policy, justifying that we are a poor country and that we cannot afford such large costs. If our expenditure is 5% of our budget, they will be proportionate to their expenditures on their budget, such as politics, such as attitude, as a strategy and so on. Regarding the countries that you have listed as being behind us with the spending of research funds, ask your assistants to give you a reference to what salaries researchers receive there. The salaries of researchers in Romania, which was further back, are twice as high, twice and a half times higher than in Bulgaria. In Bulgaria salaries are immeasurably low. At the Academy, the chief assistant can't get £600. maximum. This is ridiculous! The Academy, which is at the highest level recognised by an international audit, cannot be subsidized by the state with 50% of the costs. It's at least 85% everywhere. The rest is projects and private business. It's the other way around. And you should know that, and I'm sure you know that. But you are pursuing a traditional policy of previous governments. Criticisms huge, to the government of Oresharski and the government of Sergey Stanishev. Huge! In fact, your policy is exactly the same. There's no difference. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, just a moment. Since the beginning of the transition so far, philosophy has been the same. The Bulgarian is dumb, simple and stupid, and there is no need for high fabrics, the development of high fabrics. The other question that you have postponed and which I will ask next time is directly related to this. It's directly connected! They're consistently interrelated. Someone has to understand that! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u49	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. The right of the doppelganger is dear Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u50	Don't be angry, Professor Stanilov. I would like Bulgaria to invest more in science in terms of public spending and wages to be higher. However, when you are developing a question for me, choose, however, what to talk about, whether your question is about wages, whether your question is related to public spending, whether it is related to public-private partnership...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u51	It's the same thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u52	No, it's not the same thing. I still want this conversation to be reasonable. Professor Stanilov! Ladies and gentlemen! If the budget, if our income, if our gross domestic product is not high enough, we will not have anything to distribute If we don't have enough money and enough public finances, we can't distribute either for health care or science or for education. I agree with the ambition that education and science be an absolute national priority. And here I hope we all work together, not as ruling and opposition. All over the world, it is a percentage of gross domestic product. There's nothing else to be afraid of. I would like to quote a 2015 report from the international expert assessment of the scientific and innovation system on what is being done in Bulgaria. The following is said: The Panel recommends that the government make a new and realistic commitment to significantly increase public funding of research and development. Bulgaria must move up the rankings of the intensity of research and development at least from the current level of 0.65 of gross domestic product in 2013. One of the lowest in the European Union to 1 in 2020. This will bring down the current national target of 1.5, as set out in the National Reform Programme "Bulgaria 2020" for the intensity of research and development to a more realistic and achievable target. I will not insult the intelligence of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, who supported the Strategy or the Council of Rectors, by setting unrealistic goals. I want to work with you on something real, Professor Stanilov, and I offer you cooperation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. The next question is from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Mariana Boyadjieva on support from the Ministry of Education and Science for talented students in participation in national and international competitions. Here you are, Mrs. Boyadjieva, to develop a joint issue with Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In recent years, Bulgarian students have achieved high results in international competitions in mathematics, informatics and other disciplines. In 2016 alone, Bulgarian youths won a large number of gold, silver and bronze medals. I will allow myself from this high tribune to give just a few examples of their outstanding successes: six medals for the Bulgarian Olympics team of the Balkan Mathematics Olympiad; three medals for the International Informatics Olympiad in Kazakhstan; six medals for the International Mathematics Olympiad in Hong Kong; three medals for the International Biology Olympiad in Hanoi; ten medals in Kazakhstan at the Twelveth Jautikov Olympics in Physics, Mathematics and Informatics; five medals for the Bulgarians of the International Olympiad in Mathematical Linguistics in India and many, many more. There is not only a great talent behind these results, but also a lot of hard work for the students and their leaders. In our opinion is the care of the state to create good conditions for preparation, participation and stimulation of Bulgarian young people who bring pride and glory to Bulgaria. Dear Minister, our question to you is: how much does the Ministry of Education and Science spend on the preparation, participation and award of these talented Bulgarian children and young people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva, for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Bachvarova, Mrs. Boyadjieva! Since this is the first question relating to education, I would still like to take this opportunity to say to all of you: thank you for your support for the start of the new school year. Some of you, even the opposition, have dared to call me and wish me luck. Thank you for all the well-meaning words for the year that awaits us. I hope we can work together. Indeed, I want this to be a territory of agreement and not to have opposition for Bulgarian education and science. Your question enables me to introduce you to the following. Here's what we have as national programs. National Program The School of School of Students is a school of students and a national and international student Olympiads and competitions, and a National Program of School of Students of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools of Schools. Since you are asking me a question about the amount, I will present the values as comprehensively as possible to the extent that the procedure allows. Of course, I can give you a written report. According to the National Program, the school is 1 million for 2015 and the module I mentioned to you is 1 million. $260,000. lv. These figures are for 2015, but comparative analysis shows that fortunately they grow every year. The next module will provide training for talented students to participate in the student Olympiads at budget of 1 million. And 200,000. lv. The Ministry of Education and Science has financed everyone, I stress, all school projects that meet the requirements of the Programme, to a total of more than what I have told you "almost 1 million." 400,000. lv. Notice, close to 200,000. lv. more than a budget. The implementation and activities reports under national programmes shall be published on the official website of the Ministry of Education and Science. Here you are, visit her. I expect feedback from you... if she gives enough information, and we can continue from there our conversation. By decision of the Council of Ministers of 14 April 2016 approved a new National Program "Student Olympics and Competitions" with a total budget of 2 million. 634 thousand. lv. with a term of execution of the academic year 2016 - 2017 The program covers two modules: Module "National and International Student Olympiads and Competitions" 1 million. 434 thousand. BGN, and Module "Ensuring training for talented students to participate in student Olympiads" with a budget of 1 million. 200,000. lv. You can see that, in addition to increasing funding under the current programmes, new instruments are also being created. Even more detailed breakdown of how the funds are to be spent, if you wish, I can provide you with in-time for the duplicate, in writing, on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science, as you are comfortable. For me, these good examples of excellence give us a very great opportunity to say that the entire educational system can pull ahead. Really, our kids are smart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u57	Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. Professor Bachvarova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u58	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Thank you for the information presented to our question related to the participation of Bulgarian students mostly in international Olympiads and competitions. As my colleague said, rude statistics show that in less than four years we have over 100 prestigious awards at international competitions. In your reply, I did not hear this about international competitions what we provide, because for the internal Olympiads you have a procedure, you have some opportunities to provide support for the funding of both teachers and students and schools in which they are held. International Olympiads are something else. If you open the sites that reflect these achievements of our students, you will see: sponsors are being sought to participate in their Olympics, the school board allocates funds, parents devote funds, schools with few opportunities from delegated budgets. Our question is related to this: will we still have a system of training these students first, because this is the national wealth of Bulgaria and, secondly, to support them? Why? Because I was impressed with the Olympics in sports competitions and in all the competitions that are related to sports here. Here I do not hear such a thing, that is, how will our students be helped to continue to work and stay in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u59	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u60	Professor Bachvarova, only the lack of time stopped me from answering in more detail the question of the Olympics, but of course I will now. Providing training for talented students to participate in student Olympiads, I will again tell you....................................................................................... 200,000. lv. We have financed all school projects that meet the requirements of the Programme for a total value since 2013 and I would like to stress again that this is a territory of common political agreement. About the new national program. The first module will finance activities in the field and national circles of student Olympiads and competitions in educational subjects and professions; preparation of participation in international student Olympiads and competitions; organization of international Olympiads and competitions; events from the national calendar for extra-school activities; sports events that you asked from the national sports calendar. The second module financed activities related to carrying out additional work with students and preparation for Olympics, which you asked; providing conditions for participation of students in the national round of Olympics in over 15 educational subjects. For 2016 the 2017 project proposals have been approved and 782 project proposals will be financed. Colleagues in schools have really learned to write very good projects, worth a total of 1 million. 432,000. And 15 leva. In the additional preparation will be ranges 10 141 talented students. There are developed and established plan-accounts for national and international Olympiads and competitions during the 2016 academic year, with the Ministry of Education funding under the approved budget activities on: preparation of topics and tasks for the regional and national round of Olympiads; evaluation criteria; evaluation of written works and projects by the reviewers of the regional round of Olympiads; arbitration and final evaluation of national committees... Let me not read everything in order to save time, including the duty of the Quaestors and the administrators of the computer network of the national circle; the awards of the students with an excellent assessment of the national circle, we take over, of course, the food of the participants, the leaders of the extended national teams... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I assure you, our concern and our focus in this direction will not weaken this year. It's a long list of activities I don't have enough time for. I am prepared to provide it to you immediately or, if you want an additional call at the Ministry, this is our priority.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u61	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. The next question is from the National Representative Ivan Kostadinov Stankov on the possibilities for updating the factors for financing the educational directions of the higher schools in Bulgaria. Honourable Professor. Stankov, order to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to congratulate Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva and everyone involved in education with the new school year. Let us wish it to be really much more successful, to be more beneficial for Bulgarian education. I will try to make a brief justification for the question that I have raised. During the last decade, the funding of state universities is carried out on the basis of a certain.. we know that it is 693 BGN, which was reduced several years ago, was much higher, as well as corresponding coefficients in educational directions. The introduction of the rating system of those receiving high grades provides additional funding, which is very correct and fair, as well as an incentive for higher competitiveness and realisability of the staff. For some educational directions, however, the assigned funding ratio turns out not to be in line with the real needs and is extremely insufficient to ensure quality training of future specialists such are the agrarian specialities, veterinary medicine, engineering specialities and others. For example, I can point to veterinary medicine. The odds there were 4.3. The Ministry of Education and Science increased it to 6.5, which is positive. Compared with human medicine, where the coefficient is 9.3 or 9.4, the difference is that in veterinary medicine, the university clinic and animals are patients that we finance from the Ministry of Education, unlike human medicine, where there are university hospitals. My question is: does the Ministry of Education and Science provide for a revision and updating of the coefficients in educational directions, as well as additional funding of the European accreditation received? As far as I know, the Veterinary Medical Faculty is the only one in Bulgaria who has received European accreditation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u63	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. Minister Kuneva, please come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman! Professor. Stankov, first of all, I would like to thank you for wishing you from the parliamentary tribune of the Good Hour! We ourselves need to be aware that good motivation between us helps to do our job well. You are absolutely right, because you have set a specific example of exactly 4.3 in 2009, we are now at 6.3 as factors for veterinary medicine. Both universities of Thracian and Lesotechnic, where veterinary medicine is studied, have filled themselves with a hundred percent acceptance plan for the new school year and in the last three years have noted an increase in the number of students. I am in a hurry to say this because we usually speak critically on this subject, and now in the National Assembly I can tell you a positive, good direction of development. However, you ask me in principle, and I also want to answer you. On 8 September I issued an order for the formation of a working group to prepare a draft amendment to the regulation setting out the differentiated reasons for supporting the training of a student in professional fields and this is Decree No.162 of the Council of Ministers, which is from 2001. This working group includes Rectors of Higher Schools proposed by the Council of Rectors, as well as representatives of the Ministry, experts and people from our team. There are currently proposals from the higher schools that the working group will gather, analyse and discuss, the possibilities for a change in existing legislation will be considered and we will come up with a proposal within a short time. That's the situation at the moment. I'll take this opportunity to say a few words about our principle policy. It is a guiding principle to finance quality, so I very much insist on evaluating the results of the education in the higher education system. We aim to increase the efficiency of public expenditure in the sector. This will happen as funding is concentrated in those professional directions and higher schools that have received higher marks. These two universities of veterinary medicine are a good example. Our view is that massisation of higher education is not necessarily a process with positive consequences for quality. We will therefore encourage higher schools to develop their traditional professional directions where they are strong, where they produce quality personnel. In addition, we will pay close attention to vocational training and education, and we know that this is a very important topic for all of us. It is not mandatory in a technical university, for example, to have specialties in Law and Philology. As for your question concerning European accreditation, unfortunately, the answer is no. This is also not a practice in other countries for obtaining European accreditation to be linked to funding. This is rather, in itself, an additional incentive for higher schools to receive international recognition and would be an indicator of quality assessment for the particular higher school, which will inevitably be linked, aligned with the funds for their funding. In the end, yes, it will, but it will. Thank you again for your good words.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u65	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Professor Stankov, straight to the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science. I'm pleased with the answer. I know that work is very serious, and I also owe to point out that a lot has been done for higher education and in general for Bulgarian education in the last two years, but the problem of financing is really very serious. We are not talking about an increase, because in your previous answers you said that we should increase gross domestic product, have financial opportunities and then look for the funds. But the question is fair distribution, because the Rectors believe that there is a great deal of injustice in distribution. I referred to veterinary and human medicine. Human Medicine, University Hospitals are financed by the Ministry of Health and Means I was a two-term Rector and I have to tell you that we had all these directions and I have a look at where they reach and where they do not reach. Only surpluses are obtained there and especially in health care. They can't spend their money. We've been reassigning, which we've been very angry about. I therefore propose that this be reconsidered, and you indicated that this would happen, but I would like to say that it is very important that there is some incentive for those who are going to European accreditation. I have to tell you that veterinary medicine, we were forced to do this because Bulgaria is an external border and most diseases, episotes come from outside. We had to provide premium training, then laboratories, so that we could protect our education, our training, and that we did. So an incentive, think about it, we would be very grateful if this happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u67	Thank you, Professor. Stankov. The right of the doppelganger is denied, Mrs. Kuneva. The next question is from the National Representative Yavor Iliev Haytov concerning Rector of the Economic Academy Dear colleague Haytov, you are welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Deputy Prime Minister, from your CV I am informed that you are an alumni of the Law Faculty of Sofia University and as such we are trained to implement the law and obey the judgments. The power of the court is fundamental to the country's legal order. These theoretical postulates are studied in early courses of training in the discipline. There is nothing that gives such strength, such stability as the implementation of the Law and, as a result, the judicial acts. There is one such act on the basis of which I ask my question to you, as Minister of Education and Science. Thus, in administrative cases No 5946 of 2016 and administrative cases No 2626 of 2016 of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria there are decisions by No 8349 of 6 July 2016 and No 8620 of 11 July 2016 respectively. 2016. As I said, these are cases and therefore decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, which are not subject to appeal, as they are final and it is clear from them that there is a legally elected Rector of the Economic Academy of Bulgaria The factual situation proclaimed by these judgments is that there is a legally elected Rector and acting one who cannot perform this function as a result of the judgment. The final decisions must restore a factual situation with which all acts of the acting Rector should be repealed and, as functions and guidance, the legitimately elected Rector must be restored. My question to you is: what action are you taking to implement these final judgments, which have entered into force and are not subject to appeal? But I also want to say a few words, why this fact is worrying and it is that at the moment in this old higher education institution with many traditions in our country diplomas are issued and, of course, other documents that are normal and logical to be legal. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Here is the question: do those who have signed these documents and basically diplomas have such authority? Here also arises the question. The documents signed after that date, are they also required after they have been signed by another person? Do we not threaten the diplomas signed by persons who do not have the quality of a Rector, according to the law and by the judicial acts, to be declared illegal, for false documents and so on? All this is worrying among students, graduates and parents because they pay a price for their education. All of this has expenses, and we have a duty to comply with these things. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u69	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Mrs. Kuneva, please come in and answer the question of the MP Yavor Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u70	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, really with effective judicial decisions have been repealed the orders of the Minister of Education and Science for the appointment of a temporary acting Rector of the Economic Academy "Dimitar Tsenov" city of Svishtov. Meanwhile, in the period 21 January 2016 and 28 January 2016, 86 written applications were submitted to the President of the General Assembly by members of the General Assembly established on 20 May 2015. The General Assembly, with which they declare that they terminate their term of office, thus remaining 27 from the established composition of the General Assembly. This has objectively led to the illegitimateness of the General Assembly and therefore to the exhaustion of its mandate. In accordance with art. 24, para. 4 of the Law on Higher Education the powers of the Rector of the Higher School shall be terminated with the termination of the term of office of the General Assembly which elected him. This complements the actual picture you described. It follows from that provision that even if it were to be considered that Prof. Teodora Dimitrova was elected Rector of the General Assembly on 20 May 2015, her term of office was terminated with the termination of the term of office of the General Assembly. On the legal consequences of the court's revocation of orders to appoint a temporary acting Rector, according to art. 301 of the Administrative Procedure Code, where the administrative act is repealed after its implementation has begun, the administrative authority shall, within one month, restore the violated law and, if that is not possible, satisfy the affected person in another lawful way. It is obvious that it cannot be about the annulment of the actions carried out by the temporary appointments of the post of Rector. The annulled administrative act is not a judicial fact of any of those actions. The powers of the Rector are regulated in art. 32 of the Law on Higher Education and the Order for the appointment of a Rector does not create them, but only individualizes the person who has these powers. For me the main concern is that with which you graduated the diplomas awarded, the tranquility of the students and the parents. We believe that the higher education diplomas issued certify that their holders have successfully completed the university and this circumstance is not changed by the disputes concerning the Rector of the Academy. I think that if this is your constituency, you can pass on what I have already said on other occasions to students and parents who ask this question. It's a lawsuit, it's one of the problems I inherited. It's not a cure at all, but when the procedures are completed, only then can we come up with some final solution. You know that we respect not just the AKK, but also the Law on Higher Education, the powers of the Rector, my powers, that is, the legal picture is really complicated. We'll inform you how it's progressing, so far, and there's no concern about students' diplomas.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u71	Line, Mr. Haytov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Vice Prime Minister, this is not really my constituency, but it doesn't really matter much. I am elected MP from the Sixth Multi-Munandaten - Vrachanski region, but there are hundreds of thousands of young people from there who are trained at the Industrial Academy of Dimitar Tsenov. What is happening there and untimely interference, I would say, insufficiently decisive in the execution of these judicial acts by the management of the Ministry of Education and Science, seems to me to be a hesitant behavior of yours. It seems to me that it is extremely baseless to cause such concerns among parents, students, graduates, and not least whether the documents issued by this, again I say, an old higher authority institution, are legally valid, whether the young Bulgarian people who train there are calm that when they take their diploma, someone will not tell them: yes, but it is illegitimate because, you see, it was signed by a person who was not a rector at the time of signing this document. What you have said as the final of your reply is that there is no danger that these documents will be declared legally invalid is reassuring and it is important not so important to me as MPs asking this question, it is important, I say again, for the thousands of students there. But there is no question that at present there is one, forgive the expression, but I will say it as we are used to express ourselves at times, a mess. There are endless litigations, there are judicial decisions that are not implemented due to the launch of new, other procedures. This has a complex and comprehensive impact on authority, first of all, of course, on the university itself, second place and you are being judged because you are engaged in the overall picture of education and science. It seems to me that you need to take more decisive action to implement the judicial decisions entered into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u73	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Right to the doppelganger, Madame Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u74	Dear Mr. Haytov! I was absolutely clear about both you and all those interested in diplomas. There's no hesitation here. Obviously, you didn't expect such emphasis because you didn't have a line on this occasion, which you might want to thank for. It seems to you that there is hesitation and other things, but I know and I am responsible. I can't do anything out of the law, because here in this room, you make the laws. You do the law that gives academic autonomy, you do the law that gives me rights or does not give me as minister of education. You know very well about academic autonomy after your question rests on it. I have no doubts in the powers of the Ministry of Education and Science and that I will strictly take advantage of any opportunity to show leadership and activity in this direction. But the case with the Industrial Academy is a very complicated fact, which is legally complicated, which you can certainly appreciate to the full extent, as we exchange pleasantries on the occasion of our education. At this point, I would like to say that there are a number of pending administrative cases before the Veliko Tarnovo Administrative Court. Please meet them if you intend to follow the cases on which the Ministry of Education is not a party and we cannot at this time take the attitude. The Ministry will be able to comment when the outcome of these cases is clear. Let's not forget the separation of authorities after all. The case is now in the hands of the judiciary. I wish I hadn't inherited this problem, but I think every minister takes responsibility for the good that has been done and for the problems that have been left behind. I will continue to observe very carefully what is the development of affairs and I will not break the law. Otherwise, my act will be petty, and I can't afford that as a lawyer or as a minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u75	Thank you for your determination, Mrs. Kuneva. Thanks to Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science, for participating in today's parliamentary control. And now, one question and three questions will be answered by Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Asked by the National Representative Georgi Gokov about the policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding the creation of employment of people in pre-retire age. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to develop your inquiry within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister! My question is about the policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding the creation of pre-retirement employment. I think it is normal to ask about this issue, because at the end of last year the majority adopted a very severe pension reform, if excessive increases in internship and age can be called reform at all. I appreciate these thoughtless changes as inhuman and directed against people, but this is another and very long topic. They inevitably lead to higher unemployment. The opposition has repeatedly said that if changes are made in the pension system at all, they should be made when our economy goes in an upward line when a large number of seats are created. It is not right for me to stress, it is not right, but it is understandable when the age and internship are raised, for employers to be free from pre-retirement workers and not willing to work with them people over 60 years of age, not to mention that they will not be willing to hire such people and for those in pre-retirement age who are unemployed will be extremely difficult or almost impossible to find a job and to be employed, to meet new retirement conditions and to retire. I consider it normal for the government, knowing that it will make such a pension reform, to be prepared with specific policies to support these people. You should know well and predict what the labour market will be like in 2016, 2017 and 2018, and you should know from now on that no matter how much you boast about reducing unemployment, if this reduction is at all, it is minimal and in no way thanks to this government, but rather to economic migration and seasonal employment. And you haven't dealt with structural unemployment. On the contrary, it deepens. High youth unemployment, even higher unemployment among people in pre-retirement age. My specific question to you today is: what programmes and measures for employment and training are aimed at people of pre-retirement age financed by national or European funds and are being implemented at the moment? What programs and measures will you plan to implement in the near future by the end of the year? Do you plan to increase funds for programmes and measures for employment and training aimed at people of pre-retirement age once again financed by national funds under the National Action Plan or by European funds? I ask you to answer this question, because in the reception room I do, there are dozens of people in pre-retirement age who express their pain that they are not employed and under these retirement conditions they will not be able to retire. Thank you for taking care.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u77	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Minister Rusinova, you have the right to respond within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u78	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, unfortunately, I should disprove you not only with data we have but also with Eurostat statistics, which clearly shows that for the first time in Bulgaria there has been unemployment below the average European level for 11 years. Employment in Bulgaria increased and in the last quarter increased by 0.5 points, year-on-year growth was 1.5 points. Eurostat reports that this is a pace above the European average. At the end of August, the labor bureaus registered 261,525 unemployed, compared to July they fell by 6575 people. On an annual basis, it's down by 45,000 people. In August, unemployment continued to fall 1.3 points compared to July of this year, with the positive trend being that more than 15 000 people have found work thanks to the employment agency's benchmark services on the primary market and 4000 thanks to the various measures related to supporting subsidised employment. Unemployed persons over 50 years of age decreased by 10,000 compared to the first half of 2015. The average monthly number in the first 6 months of 2016 was 126 500 and their share of all unemployed was about 40%. This undoubtedly shows the targeted actions over the past two years and the effectiveness of the measures related to promoting the employment of people in pre-retirement age, as this is one of the commitments Bulgaria has made with regard to the package of measures related to raising the retirement age. Several are the spheres in which the individual measures produce results. First of all, the provision of individual services for mediocre activity to each person, combining the measures of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and the National Employment Action Plan. One of the most effective programs that really supports people in pre-retirement age is the National Program "Help for Retirement." In the last one year, around 530 people pass through this Programme, with the allocated funds worth 1 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. In 2016, under the conditions of the incentive measure under art. 55 of the Employment Promotion Act is financed part of the labour costs of employers who have provided employment to persons from the target group for a period of 6 months. I cannot help but mention that, in the framework of all measures relating to the labour market under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development', people over 54 years of age are priority. In other words, any employer that includes such a target group shall be financed as a priority. For the period January 2016 the employment offices provided services to nearly 200 000 unemployed persons over 50 years of age, with 61 730 newly registered ones. For the same period, nearly 52,000 people over the age of 54 started working on the various measures and programmes. In training for professional qualifications are included 3900 people, and in order to acquire and upgrade key competences - just over 3,000 people. What we are predicting for 2017 is that in view of the really different degrees and levels of unemployment in the different regions of the country, we should start with a targeted programme aimed at the Northwestern region of Bulgaria, in which, of course, the unemployment rate is the highest. The programme will cover about 10,000 unemployed persons over the age of 50 with a different package of incentive measures for inclusion in permanent employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u79	Thank you, Minister Rusinova. Mr. Gokov, come in for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your information and your unemployment statistics. I am familiar with it, by the way, is really below the EU average. This is at the moment due to migration and seasonal employment. The opportunities and employment of people over 50 years of age or as we are used to calling them people in pre-retirement age are decreasing, you cannot deny that, and will continue to decrease. People at this age have already become the first vulnerable group in the labour market, ahead of youth unemployment. If I can, I'll continue with the stats a little bit. Currently, 33,108 young people up to 29 years of age are registered at the labour desks at the end of August. At the same time, 73,552 people over 50 years of age. Madam Minister, that is why people in pre-retirement age are defined as a vulnerable group in the labour market and the number 73 000 is now not frightening, but it is now August and will exceed 100,000 by the end of the year. Although in the National Action Plan to promote employment for 2016, the money you provided from the state budget remained at the level of the previous year, even less. As if no changes were made in the pension system to make it difficult to access it and as if the labour market remained the same or did not improve, although it would remain a larger number of people.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u81	With a request for the two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u82	I'm getting to the questions. I would also like to say to you that effective support for the long life of people requires not only measures and programmes to improve the employment of this group on the labour market, but also requires integration of long-term policies for prevention and improvement of working and living conditions in which business, civil society and local authorities are involved, but must be at the heart of the country. Madam Minister, my two supplementary questions to you are: do you have an idea of such policies? What is the effect of implementing programmes and measures? What is the sustainability of jobs after the end of funding and subsidisation under the various programmes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u83	Madam Minister, please come in for an answer to the supplementary questions within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, the effect of measures, programmes and sustainability of employment are most noticeable from Eurostat, national statistics and the Employment Agency for a permanent reduction in unemployment, so it obviously has an effect. It is quite normal for economic growth and economic activity to have a higher level of employment. The goal-oriented policy of the Ministry of Labour towards long-term unemployed and people in pre-retirement age is related to quite complex measures, including complex service to some of those citizens who need both social support and social protection. In 84 points on the territory of the country, this part of the most vulnerable target group on the labour market benefits from complex services and the Employment Agency, the Agency for Social Assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u85	Thank you, Minister Rusinova. For your response, Mr. Gokov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I see that you are willing to deal with this problem, but the government as a whole is not understanding enough. With this right-wing, neoliberal policy that conducts this cabinet, you are part of which is generally expressed in abdication of the state from the problems of ordinary people and legislation only for the benefit of large capital, you cannot cope with any problem in the social sphere. Believe me, by the end of the term you will make the group of unemployed in pre-retirement age the most numerous and most difficult group and as I have told you, in times more numerous than the youth group, which is also disadvantaged. Because Europe gives money to deal with youth unemployment, but it does not give to people in pre-retirement age and in the common money we have and we have to deal with it. Unemployment among people over 55 years will now be problem number 1 for the labour market, although I think it is now. The problem of unemployment among the elderly is not only in our labour market, of course, but also in other countries of the European Union. The problem is characteristic above all for the countries that raise the retirement age, and in Bulgaria this age is yet to grow more shockingly up and it is therefore necessary to urgently take measures to create policies and instruments to ensure the employment of Bulgarian workers. I didn't do the asking to you in order to pick on you or something like that, but rather to alert you to this problem, which you can't help but feel it, but I'm still saying that it doesn't seem like you're aware of its seriousness at this point. There are good practices of Scandinavian countries - Sweden, Denmark, Finland, which also face this problem, despite their excellent social system. And one of the ideas that works there and which we can offer here is the so-called shared workplace to create... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just one more sentence, Mr. Chairman. ...to create employment for a young and inexperienced worker, as well as for an age with experience. At the same time help the two risk groups to learn knowledge and skills for which they would otherwise work for years, while the elderly worker working on an incomplete day conveys his valuable experience. Let us do it with our own or European money, with the National Employment Action Plan or with any scheme under the operational programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u87	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. The next question is from the MP Miho Dimitrov Mihov on the annulment of the provision imposing a limitation on the amount of pensions paid in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, dear General Mihov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u88	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! At the meetings in the reception days, which I hold as a representative of the National Assembly in Burgas, Veliko Tarnovski and Yambolski multi-mandant election districts, I systematically receive questions from citizens, retired servicemen and others from risky professions: why the current government of the Republic of Bulgaria does not show political will to respect the Constitution by creating a worthy act for falling the ceiling of pensions introduced by § 6, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code? The pension payable, the amount of which is determined in the legal act itself, age, insurance service, wage and insurance contributions, is a personal right of the worker and the employee, share the injured and injured citizens. On the other hand, it is offensive and criminal in the 21st century in Bulgaria to tolerate discrimination and inequality in the principles of determining the amount of pension without a ceiling only for a certain category of civil servants. My question to you, Madam Minister, is: what is the political will of the government and is there ambition the Ministry headed by you to abolish the unconstitutional § 6, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code in order to achieve equality of the insured persons under art. 3, para. 3 of the Code and each receive exactly the legally calculated pension on the basis of his personal calculated contributions?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u89	Thank you, General Mihov. Minister Rusinova, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u90	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Mihov, the restrictive amount of pensions received is not a novelty in our insurance legislation, and during the different periods of time the limit has been changed depending on the specific financial possibilities of the budget. For example, under the Pension Act of 1926, the amount of the monthly pension received could not be greater than BGN 5,500 and not less than BGN 500. In 1975, the Pension Act, which operated until 1999, established a provision whereby the amount of the pension cannot exceed the remuneration from which it was calculated. According to the current provision of § 6, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code, the maximum amount of pensions awarded until 31 December 2018 without additions to them shall be determined as from 1 July of each calendar year of 35 per cent and as from 1 July 2019. 40 percent of the maximum social security income for the same calendar year as determined by the State Social Security Budget Act. It should be borne in mind that the insurance system in force in Bulgaria is cost-covering. One of the basic principles of this system is the principle of solidarity of the insured persons, which allows limiting the amount of pensions received to a maximum amount and, at the same time, ensuring a minimum amount of pensions which provides a minimum of funds to different categories of persons who have participated in the provision. The principle of solidarity of insured persons, which applies to the allocation of funds, exists in other countries that apply the cost-covering system in public security. In this sense, the Constitutional Court also ruled. Decision No 21 of 15 July 1998 on Constitutional Case No 18 of 1997 states the following: The establishment of maximum and minimum pension borders, as well as their mutual condition, are dictated by the pension system in force in Bulgaria. It shall qualify financially as cost-covering. In this system, a pension ceiling is necessary. It serves to ensure minimum pensions and to contribute to their growth. These functions show that the contested provision satisfies the requirements of social justice expressed in the preamble to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg also ruled on the question of the so-called "Cavanaugh" of pensions. In its judgments, the Court stated that the ceiling of pensions in Bulgaria does not violate the right to property and is not discrimination. In 2015, a comprehensive review of the insurance legislation was carried out to discuss the pension reform, with special attention being paid [[the President signals that time has run out]] the maximum amount of pensions, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u91	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Your line, General.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u92	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, firstly, I take the occasion to thank you for your positive attitude to the War Veterans Act, and I believe that these two bills, which I am also an importer, are very connected. What I'm asking concerns no more than 28,000 people. And the other law has already brought him to the point of staying alive at 3,500. This bill, which I demand you to submit it as a government, will indeed lead to this, because all these 28 thousand are over 75-80 years old and one such approach, in our opinion, is again humiliation to the risky professions in Bulgaria. We are not talking about those who do not have a ceiling, what risk they take in their public service. And secondly, my challenge and many prominent parliamentarians here is: when we open the fall of the ceiling, the state and the people will see how big the scissors are between the minimum pensions and the ceiling, so that governments can stimulate themselves to quickly grow the minimum pension, catch up with the ceiling. And now we have frozen people on a minimum pension because we do not show the ceiling to those who have earned it. Thank you again for the War Veterans Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u93	Thank you, dear General Mihov. Would you like to use the right to dodge? No. The next question is from the MP Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov about the contracts for short-term seasonal agricultural work and the preferences of the employees. Here you are, dear Mr. Bayraktarov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in 2015, as you know, a new Article 114a was introduced in the Labour Code, which concerns the conclusion of employment contracts for short-term seasonal agricultural work in the sector. The employees under this Article 114a were granted special preferences in the following: in addition to receiving their remuneration, to benefit from the changes made to Art. 114a. 54a of the Social Security Code, namely: to receive both wage and unemployment benefit... something that every normal person knows is unacceptable and violates a basic principle in labour law, and this is the principle of the so-called 'Equality'. Nevertheless, I ask you today to answer the following question: how many employees under art. 114a of the Labour Code received unemployment benefit in implementation of the amendments to the Social Security Code, and what is the total amount paid for these benefits? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Ms. Rusinova, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, will answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Bayraktarov, I would like to stress that the introduction of art. 114a of the Labour Code aims to a large extent to lighten the gray economy, and they give their effect. Since the beginning of the year, over 180 thousand have been registered. day-to-day employment contracts. The majority of them are in the cities of Stara Zagora, Plovdiv and Haskovo. More than 38 thousand are in Stara Zagora, about 27 thousand on the territory of Plovdiv and about 20 thousand on the territory of Haskovo, with the largest percentage of the day-to-day contracts in the wine-growing sector. The provision of the persons shall be carried out on the basis of art. 4, para. 10 of the Social Security Code, according to which those persons who are entitled to use the provision of art. 114a, subject to disability insurance due to general illness, old age and death, and for occupational accident and occupational disease. According to art. 54a, para. 1 of the Code on Social Security the right to monetary unemployment benefit shall have the persons for whom insurance contributions to the Fund have been paid or due.Unemployment and pension for old age in another country or in the Republic of Bulgaria for at least nine months prior to the termination of the insurance and who have been registered as unemployed in the Employment Agency and who have not obtained the right to retirement pension in another country or in the Republic of Bulgaria and do not receive a pension for insurance service and age in a reduced amount or professional pension, do not engage in an employment activity for which they are subject to compulsory social security insurance under the Code, except for the persons referred to in Article 1. 114a. The goal, as I said, is really to lighten the gray sector. At the beginning of these employment contracts, the registration of persons in the Employment Agency shall not be terminated in order to benefit from the incentive measures relating to their permanent integration into the labour market. According to data from the information system of the National Insurance Institute, from 17 July 2015, from the date of entry into force of the new provisions, a total of 22 321 persons have been provided for 140 851 days. Out of them 320 received monetary compensation only for unemployment, during this period being provided on the basis of art. 4, para. 10 of the Social Security Code for 1501 days. The total amount of the unemployment benefits paid for the days of insurance for 16 417 BGN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u97	Thank you, dear Mrs. Rusinova. The line is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I suppose you know why I am asking you this question.. Since you have practically failed to fulfil your duty as Minister, which has been entrusted to you by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Commission, namely to prepare an analysis of the positive and negative trends in the implementation of budget policies, which I stress are worth 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes Today, your response shows that a change... You didn't have to read me the other changes, they were quite when the new article was introduced. 114a, it was enough to say that in fact only 300 people for whom the change in the Law was made practically benefited from this reference. In other words, the labor bureaus have directed 300 people who have an extremely small number of jobs as working days. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has proposed legislative changes that appear to be dead texts, but, I repeat, they violate the basic principle of equality. That is why we have asked you to do not really ask you, but we have obliged you to do this analysis and to provide such information so that the MPs in their legislative activities can work in the light, with clear and accurate information and not accept dead texts in legislation. Nevertheless, I thank you for finally bringing out this really needed information for us MPs today.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u99	Thank you for your reply, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? You don't want to. Mr. Bayraktarov, you must return to the stand, because the next question is also yours. It is about the application of t. 4 of § 1 of the Final Provisions of the Employment Promotion Act. You have the floor to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Honourable Members, Dear Minister, the amendments to this point. 4 of the additional provisions of the Employment Promotion Act became the cause of a very heated dispute in 2015. By the way, it is right for me to introduce you today, if you do not know that just two days ago, the decision of the European Court of Justice came out, which, unfortunately, confirmed my concerns. What's it really about? As I said, changes were made to this item at the end of 2015. 4 which concerns the concept of a job. Until such changes, it was stated that the workplace could constitute an appropriate place if it was located within up to 30 km of the address of living of the worker or employee. The changes made changed this criterion by increasing it to 50 km. In this regard, I would like to ask you first and please answer me correctly, Dear Minister: what part of the registered unemployed have come into the new hypothesis of this. 4, i.e. they should be offered a working space up to 50 km, what is their number in 2016 and what cost is it made because, according to the current text, the Bulgarian state has an obligation of 18 months, or a year and a half, for these people to pay the transport costs? Quite serious, according to our estimates, a cost norm that, after a year and a half, raises the other question: who will take over the cost of this worker to stay and continue working in this workplace? So I'm asking you, if you have this information, to really provide it to us, because it is extremely important.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u101	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Ms. Rusinova, the question to you, as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, is answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Bayraktarov! Acceleration of the country's economic development, accompanied by the opening of new jobs, prompted the adoption of this legislative change in 2015 in order to activate the unemployed. The change in the Employment Promotion Act aims to help to better combine demand and supply of the workforce. That is, employers to overcome their difficulties in hiring and unemployed people to be directed to more job vacancies and to have more choice to work in a larger region. The change in the concept of a job which is appropriate in 2015 does not affect the amount of funds allocated either to the national budget or to the European budget by the European Social Fund. It does not concern the National Employment Action Plan, nor does the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." In no way are payments linked to the distance between settlements and work. The definition of an appropriate job in the Additional Provisions of the Employment Promotion Act is important and applies only to the rights and obligations of registered unemployed persons in relation to their active behaviour on the labour market and their participation in the process of developing and implementing the steps of the individual action plan, which is developed with the labour mediators in the employment bureaus. The change focuses mainly on groups of unemployed people who generally need support to overcome the psychological barrier to work outside the population, given their remoteness from the economic centre or objects of work. The regulatory change adopted does not restrict, but encourages unemployed people to seek employment, as the requirement to have adequate public transport is respected to be used by the person at the start of the work. Following the introduction of the measure from the beginning of 2016 to July of this year, 128 500 people started working on the primary labour market as a result of the work of labour intermediaries. For the period January "July," the number of unemployed persons who dropped out of registration, including because of a refusal to accept their proposed appropriate employment or inclusion in programmes and measures for employment and training of adults under the Employment Promotion Act, is around 6000 less compared to the same period last year. The introduction of legal change for the distance from 30 to 50 km does not restrict the rights of registered workers, but increases their employment opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u103	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Would you like a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I asked you for a reason to give me a clear and correct answer. The question was very easily understood, I would say, even a simple question: how many people have benefited from this amendment and what is the cost that has been incurred for them? By the way, it doesn't do you the honor of deluding that this money is not covered by the budget. In fact, it would be interesting to say, where is this transport cost covered within 18 months under the current Act? From where? Are these funds falling from the sky, or do we have a secret sponsor that we don't know about that covers these expenses? More than that. For a reason, I said that this information is extremely important because you gave interesting statistics in a very veiled way: excluded from the employment offices less than 6,000 people for not agreeing to accept the proposals for a suitable workplace! Here it is appropriate to tell you that, with the decision of the European Union, you should already know that the travel time and the time during which the worker and the employee are available to the employer is considered to be spent time and paid, that is to say, a serious moment arises, who will also cover these costs of employers, with which you consider to stimulate them with workers through subsidization? And the last, which was also incorrect from your point of view, in the Employment Action Plan for both 2015 and 2016 explicitly and categorically set the Council of Ministers, i.e. the government, not to make expenditure on such activities, but to invest funds and to do everything possible to keep people in the settlements, as they are depopulated, mostly border regions, and this is now a matter of national security. Something that doesn't honor you again, trying to deceive. However, I am a man who is known to read all the legal documents. And if you haven't read the 2015 Employment Action Plan, I'm willing to give it to you to read it and see what you've decided in the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Do you want a hole? You do not wish, which has exhausted the questions to you about today's parliamentary control. Good day on the road! Next are a series of questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova. First of all, we have a question from Mr. Chavdar Georgiev about the connection of the highway Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u106	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! About a year ago, entirely pre-election, you, the Prime Minister and the President cut a ribbon for the opening of the Maritsa Motorway. Obviously this was only a targeted election PR and quite irresponsiblely the Prime Minister and you boast then that you have done a thorough opening of the highway, final completion of a ten-year project, and in your manner you fought in the chest what a wonderful job you have done. " Yes, but no! " said a journalist. Neither the highway was built properly nor built fully and definitively. Apparently, an unfinished construction project was launched with a pre-election goal. The road node in the connection was not built, or more precisely it was built halfway, without a connection from and to Burgas Svilengrad. Then a small connection was made in the direction of Svilengrad "Burgas" and so on! There's no connection from Burgas. Svilengrad! I would say, typical work for the government of Borisov is built something, cutting ribbons, big bragging to the media, you have mastered and distributed some European money, but whether everything is done and whether it is quality, that is obviously not your concern. It's mostly the pre-election PR. This is why I ask you: Is this the Project of the Link "Trakiya" "Maritsa"; who is this great designer who has done it; why and who has approved such an obvious wrong project; who has authorised the construction and carried out the control of the implementation; is it accepted for quality and completion of the construction of the Motorway "Maritsa"; do you think that today's state is normal and responsible for European practices; when will you complete the full and final construction of the Motorway "Maritsa"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u107	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, I don't like to go into political rhetoric. It is obvious that in view of the presidential elections, you are in a serious attack and parliamentary control revolves around attacking politically, politically speaking and quite populistly, and if I have to enter this rhetoric, your government is known for very first cracks on the same subject and you never finish them. We first finish the sites and put them into operation, as is apparent from the last and this mandate of the cabinet Borisov. But let's get back to the project as one. First of all, we have to say that the Maritsa Motorway in the mileage from kilometer zero to the end, to the border crossing point, is complete. This is a highway built back in years in many different ways. What you are referring to are the additional road connections for the injection and casting from the highway of Trakiya. In the direction of Sofia or in the direction of Burgas, which are part of the highway, but are not part of the projects that were financed by funds from the European funds, which we successfully completed and put into service. The highway connection and the connection of the highway of Trakiya is a project, designed in 1997 by the company of the project, and then, when this highway is designed, the connection of this highway, namely on the highway of Trakiya with highway of Maritsa and by analyzing traffic at that time and following the regulations, is considered not necessary at all, and is not foreseen at that time, the construction of road connections of the highway of Maritsa with the direction of Burgas and from Burgas on the highway of Maritsa and respectively to Svilengrad. That was the situation at the time. Then, when the project started, starting its completion and completion of the highway, a new analysis was made and then the analysis showed that there is already a need to complement the road links in the Burgas region as well as Svilengrad, and vice versa Svilengrad Burgas. For this reason, the project is developed to expand the project of this road node and these connections, so that the way they can be established can be established, and as part of the project of the road node, the connection of the road node is built in the direction of the highway from Svilengrad in the direction of Burgas. With regard to the opposite inclusion, the additional one, as is called the "ear', at this road node in Burgas, Svilengrad, the designers find that it is technically impossible to build an additional connection on the existing bridge for the upload of light and heavy vehicles, because the existing bridge over Maritsa, which would be the natural connection, cannot withstand this load, is not foreseen and cannot be extended in this form. The only possible project solution is the construction of another bridge facility next to it in order for this to happen, which is why the chosen option is a little further down, three kilometers further down the road hub. To build such a connection for upload and to make this connection at..Plovdivtovo and hence the vehicles to get on board, to return and to board the highway. Yes, but let's not forget that since there is a Maritsa Highway and many before that there is an easier way to connect the passengers from Burgas to Svilengrad on the Maritsa Highway through Stara Zagora. It is also existing at the moment, so there are currently two alternatives to the inclusion of traffic. The building of the new connection at the road hub was appealed and the EIA procedure was appealed, you as Minister of Environment and Water, you know, in the Ministry of Environment and Water. It's over. You've ruled in favor of API. We have also completed the detailed plan for the construction of this road link, and by the end of the month we will complete the procedure for selecting a contractor. I hope that if there are no appeals, by the end of the year and this additional inclusion in the field will also be a fact and will be another opportunity for the travelers from Burgas. Both the other highways are functioning and there are sufficient road connections in all directions so that they can be used by the willing and the travelers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u109	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Georgiev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am somewhat pleased, but rather I am no longer satisfied with your answer, and I will say why. I'm glad because you actually admitted that you didn't finish your job. It doesn't make sense that a project 20 years ago should be implemented now, and that it is related to the European Fund Using Project, and that you have not updated it properly. Why didn't you do it at the moment when the highway was built? Second, where the road connection will be.. Whether in Stara Zagora or in Plovdivovo, is also relevant in my opinion. It is clear that there is currently no road link between Burgas and Svilengrad. Clearly, it makes traffic difficult. In addition, you have not given a clear answer: are these projects and practices in the European Union? I don't think so. How come you have made a huge project for surely tens of millions of European money that is not ultimately finished because there is no overall road connection between the two highways? I do not know any other such case in Europe that two highways join together or divide and there is no complete connection between them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u111	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Minister Pavlova? You won't take advantage of the right to reply. The next question is from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov concerning the free grant and transfer of property No. 65334,301,9525-HDZ, the locality of the town of Sandanski. If I read it correctly, I don't know. You have the floor, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! In the urbanized territory of the town of Sandanski is situated real estate, private state property, which is part of the former military unit in the city, and although state property has been for tens of years, for nearly 20 years it has been desolate, crumbling and looting. In this regard, some time ago, I asked two parliamentary questions to the Minister of Defence as the principal of this property regarding the possible grant, transfer of the same property for the needs of Sandanski municipality. Following the positive responses of the Minister of Defence, subsequent talks with him and with the defence management, talks with the district government and the mayor of Sandanski municipality, took real procedural action regarding the free transfer of this property. In this regard, and under the State Property Act, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works must submit the relevant proposal to the Council of Ministers for its possible free grant. In view of the above, my question to you is: has such a proposal been submitted to the Council of Ministers already? Is there any procedural obstacle to this free delivery of this property? Eventually, if there is no such proposal submitted, what time will it be submitted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Minister Pavlova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u114	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, regarding the former barracks in Sandanski, which is located in the locality of the branch, which is still in government by the Minister of Defence, as you said, the Ministry of Defence has given its consent due to a lack of need for this property to be taken away by the Ministry of Defence and by a decision of the Council of Ministers to be granted free of charge in the management of the municipality of Sandanski to take action for the disposal of the property. The paper, which was initiated next to me as Minister of Regional Development with the power by law to enter this proposal of the Council of Ministers, was received in May by the district governor of Burgas district. However, it is not fully complete because it lacks some documents that must be obtained by the Ministry and by all the institutions that are involved in this process in order for it to be fully complete, but there are no fundamental problems for its proceeding forward. We expect an order for the actual withdrawal from the Ministry of Defence of this property, on the one hand, to issue and respectively the copy of the private state property act itself, which is, to reflect the entry of the property already taken from the governor and to take away the property from the defence, and an important analysis that requires the new legislation. This is an analysis of the eligibility of State aid, which will be implemented when providing this property free of charge. I am convinced that in the coming weeks these documents will already be available and completed, as I have unofficial information from the district governor that the first two acts are ready, and the actual analysis of the eligibility of the grant will be completed, which will enable me to initiate the procedure of the Council of Ministers for coordination with the other departments, which is a 10-day period, after which I will submit the proposal for the granting of the Council of Ministers, respectively in the successful conduct of this procedure. I hope that in the coming weeks all this can be completed as a file so that I can proceed to the Council of Ministers. At this point, I don't see any problem with that happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u115	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Stoyanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I thank you for your information. It is not only useful, it is also positive, it is happy for the residents and guests of the municipality of Sandanski with a view, as you said, the maximum rapid adoption of a decision of the Council of Ministers for the free provision of this property for the needs of the municipality of Sandanski. Of course, this decision of the Council of Ministers will benefit first and foremost the management of the municipality of Sandanski, in the face of the mayor and the Municipal Council. In speaking with them, I would like to thank, on their behalf, that this property will be used as efficiently, as optimally and appropriately as possible, for its management, public use activities and needs for the ground, technical and probably transport infrastructure of the city with a view to its appropriate location at the beginning of the city. It is delightful that you have made a commitment within not more than a month, perhaps to finalise this transaction by thanking you in advance for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Minister Pavlova will not take advantage of his right to the doppelganger. Let's thank her for today's participation in parliamentary control. Have a good day! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front, the word is given by Co-President Krasimir Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u118	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will read a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Bratislava Summit is a turning point for Europe. Europe must resolve the main issue of security of its citizens. It must show that there is a direction and a development plan. Despite the insistence of the Patriotic Front, our current president refused in August to urgently convene the Advisory Council on National Security to form a single policy and opinion of the Bulgarian government. Therefore, now in Bratislava, the Bulgarian prime minister goes without a single national position, which would significantly improve his position with regard to Bulgaria's demands. Right now Bulgaria clearly and categorically must set its conditions. In addition to the question of financial support for our country from the European Union, which we have long withheld due to strange shyness, we must demand something else. Therefore, the Patriotic Front strongly insists the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to place the issue of a new European policy of repulsion of illegal immigrants from our border, which is also an external border of the European Union, acutely and immediately before the European Commission and the Council of the European Union. This means an immediate change of Dublin regulations. As is known, under those Regulations, which are part of Community law, illegal migrants established within the territory of the European Union are to be returned to the State of first registration. We strongly object and strongly oppose the ideas launched by German Chancellor Merkel, countries that refuse the so-called "relocation or forced relocation and settlement of illegal migrants" to be fined with money. These Regulations threaten our national interest and our national security because of our geographical location and the fact that the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria strictly respected Community law, unlike neighbouring countries, members of the European Union who did not respect it. From 2010 to the end of 2015 the number of asylum seekers in Bulgaria is 33 269 and the granted permits and decisions are 28 300. For this reason, we insist on editing or removing art. 24, 25 and 29 of the Dublin Regulation, where the conditions under which the illegal migrant can and must be returned to the country of initial registration, i.e. Bulgaria. Returning already registered migrants and entering new Bulgarian territory will lead to collapse of our social, health and educational systems, as well as a severe security crisis. We've already seen the first symptoms of the imminent disaster in the town of Harmanli. We will not allow Bulgaria to be transformed into a migration centre where illegal migrants from all over Europe, invited to the old continent, but already unwelcome by the German chancellor. We demand that all migrant centres and camps located on the territory of settlements in the Republic of Bulgaria, such as those in the town of Harmanli, Vrajdebna, Ovcha coupel, Military ramp, Sofia and so on, be closed and exported directly to the border and that economic migrants be extradited back to Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we are watching the beginning of a well-organized slander campaign by some of our opponents and their service media that we, the united patriots, have used the anger of the people against emigration pre-election. This is ridiculous. In Harmanli, after a general protest, the prime minister committed himself to a promise to local citizens regarding the Migrant Centre. It was the right thing to do. We ask: does the Prime Minister make an election PR too? But let those who criticize us state their position, not to hide with guilty silence, perhaps caused by the fear that the people will punish them for their inaction. Year after year in our country there are always elections. Anyone could be accused of acting pre-electionally. We started talking about these issues back in 2013, when we were constantly reminded that it was about refugees from war and not illegal migrants. Now everyone, not only in Bulgaria, but throughout Europe, saw that we were right that these were not immigrants, but illegal aliens. Since that moment parties such as NFSB, VMRO, Ataka and the other patriotic forces in Bulgaria are organizing protests almost every month. That's been pre-election since 2013, too? It was we who most energetically insisted on completing the fence along the border and provided the necessary changes for this, the same fence that the Hungarian Prime Minister Orben showed today, and then some pseudo-protectives called us xenophobes. It was the Patriot Front that asked the troops to be on the border. Then, Bulgarian President Plevneliev announced that this meant a diplomatic scandal. But then we proved right today the army is on the border, only it has to be even bigger. It was we in the Patriotic Front who said that Turkey was blackmailing the European Union. We have encountered a Euroliberal, naive and extremely aggressive response. Now what the Patriotic Front said, the parties in Germany say, says the Austrian Foreign Minister and Foreign Ministers of the Visegrad Four countries. That is why we again insist on the immediate completion of the partition facilities and covering the state border in order to prevent illegal emigration in Bulgaria. In order to protect our national interest, we must use all instruments, including the right to veto in European decisions. We are not responsible for the crisis in the Middle East, in Syria and the countries of North Africa. We, as Bulgarians and Bulgaria, should not be a victim of the politics of some major countries that pursued only their economic interests in the Middle East, and now we must pay the bill. Europe is facing a crucial moment at which it must fight for its identity and civilisational integrity as a Christian continent, and Bulgaria together with Malta, Greece and Italy must fight not to be turned into a humanitarian zone where thousands of illegal immigrants will be brought down. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Bulgaria must join the policy of the Visegrad Group. Their messages have clearly shown that national sovereignty can go hand in hand with a strong Europe. Strong Europe, however, means strong national states, not bureaucrats who command national states. Unfortunately, Juncker's long-awaited speech a few days ago spoke quite the opposite. The Euroburocrats present solutions to the problems of the recipe so far. However, what has been done so far has not worked, ladies and gentlemen. Otherwise, we wouldn't have to have this debate. Europe's real problems are clear.... terrorism, an invasion of illegal immigrants, an epidemic of attacks on women in Cologne and other major European cities, jihadists registered as refugees, but ravaging in Europe with axes, shovels, trucks-bombs, explosions and everything they find. What we observe in Europe may soon turn out to be our Bulgarian problems. The European project is in a deadlock and the anger of European citizens is growing. The only way for Europe to get out of the swamp is to listen to its citizens, to listen to those for whom it was supposedly made. European citizens today want security, they want sovereignty, not faceless anonymous clerical power in Brussels. They want power that is accounted for, that they can influence and that listens to them. That's what the Bulgarians want. This is what we, united patriots, strong Bulgaria, strong national countries, prosperous European Union! Finally, once again, I would like to focus on the measures that we are proposing, some of which have been tabled as bills. Firstly, an urgent completion of the remaining 60 km of border facilities along the border with Turkey. The talks with the government are going in the right direction here. Secondly, additional commitment of serious forces by the Bulgarian Army to be authorized, including to use force in repulsion of immigrants. Thirdly, refugee camps are to be exported from the settlements in the border areas outside the settlements. Only to be of the closed type and to be confined to the reverse extradition of those who do not need asylum. Fourth, the laws proposed by the Patriotic Front to criminalise the preaching of radical Islam, the so-called.............................................................................................. are to be adopted................................................................................................................................................... Fifthly, the Council of Ministers should demand and uphold a new European policy to deter migrants and, in the absence of a desire from European bureaucracy, to unilaterally declare Bulgaria freezing the Dublin Agreement, which would turn our country into a huge refugee stream. Thank you for your attention. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. It's 11:40. We'll stop for 30 minutes. Then we continue with the answers of Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov and Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova. Thirty-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u120	The rest period provided for in the Rules of Procedure is over. Parliamentary control continues with answers from the Minister of Finance "Mr. Vladislav Goranov." First to him will ask his current question the people's representative from the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka. Mr. Alexandrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, it's good to see you and ask you my question. We are talking about several cases, which I have quoted, from the Karnobat region in Burgas, about the deferred tax under art. 167 of the Law on Corporate Income Tax with the implementation of art. 189b for farmers. One NRA revision act concerns the following: the sum of BGN 3,10. interest should be recovered 17, 254,33 BGN. an unrecognized right to surrender a tax. This is included in a revision act, as the period 2014 has been revised. I suppose you have familiarized yourself with these cases. My questions are as follows: what does the Ministry intend to do in terms of this injustice, as for 3,10 BGN. a formal non-compliance with the tax, a return of more than 17 thousand is required. lv.? The second question is from the representatives of the grain producers. There are calls for a threshold of minority. What is the opinion of the Ministry on the matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u122	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u123	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, in talks with various farmers and I have faced similar cases from you. The principle position is as follows. The question you are asking is related to the existing legal requirement for the transfer of corporate tax under art. 189b of the Law on Corporate Income Tax the taxable person shall not be referred to in art. 167 of the same Law, namely obligations subject to enforcement and public obligations and obligations for penalties under criminal decrees relating to infringement of the laws on public obligations and, thirdly, interest relating to non-compliance within the time limits of the obligations laid down in points 1 and 2. In this respect, it should be noted that the assessment of which public obligations to be taken into account for the purposes of applying art. 167, para. 1 of the Law on Corporate Income Tax should not be made isolated in respect of only that provision and in relation to the transfer of tax under art. 189b of the same tax law. The requirement of art. 167, para. 1 of the Corporate Income Tax Act refers to all cases of corporate tax transfer, respectively to a reduction under Chapter Twenty-Second of the Tax Act of the Accounting Financial Result in determining the tax financial result. The application of the rules on non-taxation of food vouchers and contributions by an employer for additional voluntary insurance and insurance is also binding on a lack of enforcement of public obligations. The same is the case with the application of the provisions................................................................................................ 53, para. 2 of the Law on personal income taxes for the use of a discount on income tax for the admission of the annual tax return under art. 50 of the same law. The total in all the provisions mentioned is the desire of the legislator to bind the granting of different types of tax reliefs to the absence of public obligations. The transfer and exemption from corporate tax or other tax constitutes a deviation from the general tax regime and is only allowed for correct and correct tax entities complying with legal orders. In addition to the above, the electronic services provided by the NRA allow timely information on outstanding liabilities to be obtained. Therefore, the repayment of a minor obligation should not make it difficult for a taxpayer who wishes to benefit from substantial preferences. We have thought about the proposal for a materiality threshold, but it will not prevent the occurrence of cases at the threshold limits to be claimed to be injustice again. Improving the avoidance of such cases of relatively low size obligations, avoiding the use of preferences, is the task of both the taxpayer and the administration. As far as the administration is concerned, we have created the possibility of free access to the tax and insurance accounts of persons and the receipt by electronic means of information about the existing titles of liabilities. In this sense, relatively little effort is required for this taxable person who wants to benefit from preferences to ensure that it is not in some of the hypotheses that prohibit the use of the reference. If you have concrete proposals, I am ready to discuss them in the tax campaign that is to come, related to a change in the laws of the............................... Agree that there is no way to introduce a threshold of minor importance, as each lev for a fissure is important.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u124	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my suggestion is that there should be no threshold of materiality, since the exception for some means exceptions for absolutely everyone after that. I don't think we can make private laws for each sector separately, be able to record them for who is essential and for who is minor. I am also worried from the point of view that for a farmer due to the notation of BGN 3,10. interest, the return of the practical 17 thousand to the fissure would be equivalent to substantial financial difficulties, including bordering on bankruptcy of the farmer concerned. This means reducing turnover and a number of financial steps that he has to take. I agree with something else, and perhaps my proposal is in this direction - people and companies should follow their obligations more closely, as the case in question is 3 BGN. interest rates, being chased for 17 grand, to a certain extent, is also in the firm. But the state should also help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u126	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u127	We think alike, Mr. Alexandrov, and that's positive. I'll recall again what I told you. The use of tax relief is a deviation from the general rules of taxation to the extent that the same person benefiting from the exemptions is, where appropriate, relieved by the application of corporate tax. In this sense, yes, the benefits it has of this relief, in this case, which you are quoting as an example, are significantly greater than its obligation. After all, the person owes a tax on the positive financial result and not on the loss or negative cash flow. In this sense, in this case, the person who has been indecent, formally, to the fissure, cannot benefit from preferences. It is not extremely and additionally burdened by the tax law, we simply respect the principle that preferences can only be enjoyed by fully qualified individuals. I only said this to partially dispel your concerns that this is a very severe blow to the financial situation. Surely the loss for the person as a common result is serious. In fact, it will simply have to pay its due taxes on the basis of the positive financial result and not a negative one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u128	Thank you. We move on to a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova on the financing of the Targeted Investment Programme in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha Sakar, border, mountain and semi-mountain regions. Here you are, dear Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, my question is about funding the Targeted Investment Programme. Mr. Borisov's government recorded in its Programme for the period 2014 - 2018 Priority 13.1 that it will overcome the economic backwardness of the various regions in the country. They're focused on this targeted investment program. Northwest Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha Sakar, the border, mountain, semi-mountain and poorly developed regions are specifically defined within the scope of the Programme. In 2015 the Targeted Investment Programme was ordered and made, in December 2015. The Council of Ministers organised a public discussion with anticipation in 2016. The programme will be adopted by the Council of Ministers and started working on it. The Regional Policy Council finalises the discussion on the Programme. As a work on the implementation of the Programme 2016 itself was missed. Demographic, socio-economic problems in these regions continue to deepen every day and every hour, and to move them away from major district cities. In parallel to this, during these two years "2015," members of the government generously and generously say that, when the Programme becomes an act of the Council of Ministers, things will change in these regions. In fact, they provoke citizens' expectations that something good will happen. After all, it is clear to everyone that the position of the Ministry of Finance, of the Minister of Finance is waiting. I got to know the 2017 budget forecast carefully. There I saw again as a focus the energy efficiency of the National Programme. I expect from your reply because it is important for the remaining two years of the government's mandate: what will be the real attitude of the Ministry of Finance and for next year will there be in the Budget Act resource to start the Programme working?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, first of all, I would like to thank you for your good prospects for the government's successful completion of its mandate within the constitutional deadline. Decision of the Council of Ministers No 56 of January 2016, approved the budgetary procedure for 2017. In the performance of t. 21/15 of the same Decision, the Council of Ministers examined and approved by Decision 289 of the Council of Ministers of 20 April 2016 the medium-term budget forecast for the period 2017 - 2019. The second move of the 2017 budget procedure is currently related to the development of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 and the updated medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2017 - 2019, specifying sectoral policies, specific budgetary parameters and key assumptions. I make the agreement that we will meet the deadline in the Public Finance Act for submitting the annual Budget Act for 2017. In the post-2017 forecast, the topics related to achieving higher transparency and efficiency of public investment funds are the subject of analysis. Details of the 2017 budget will be discussed in accordance with the procedure and with the fiscal rules. A few things I could say about the so-called "North-West Bulgaria Development Policy," the Rhodopes, Strandja, Sakar, the subboundary, mountain, and the semi-mountainly underdeveloped areas. "I do not agree quite and I have also said it on another request of a national representative, with the fact that the Programme has not started, with so much of the investment costs that the government makes, priority is directed to these parts of Bulgaria. It is no coincidence that one of my visits to Northwestern Bulgaria is quoted, which was precisely on the occasion of monitoring the process of realization of these investments. As a minister and my team, we can easily express an opinion on the proposed Programme within some or other divisions of the state budget. Unfortunately, however, I am still not convinced, on the basis of my visits to Northwestern Bulgaria, that conventional measures to pour some money into infrastructure or invest some money in infrastructure will result in a positive result needed to revive these parts of Bulgaria. The problem of economic restructuring over the past 25 years has been linked to the movement of human resources both in terms of migration outside the country and in terms of concentration within the country from less to more developed areas. The economic recovery approach should, in my opinion, be targeted with priority specific and not horizontal measures in terms of the impact on human capital in these areas, because very often even in these economically backward areas, there are lines from a very small and medium-sized business that do not have the opportunity to provide the necessary human resources to seal or develop business in this area. That is why the debate in the government is not over, although I can say that we are at a very advanced stage, because according to the Ministry of Finance's assessment, these are not exactly the measures that will lead to the solution of the basic, according to our understanding the problem of the quality of the workforce and the quality of human resources. Here I am not only talking about human resources in a period where they can only give a workforce, but we are talking about education, social protection, detention at school. All these measures for us are priority and we have not yet seen them in the so-called Development Plan. We are working intensively with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for prioritization because, I repeat, the horizontal employment measures that the Ministry has implemented over the years do not give and will not give the result necessary for these regions. Even if expenditure is incurred which the government makes and which are foreseen under the European programmes, this is a mandatory but insufficient condition that this region will be developed. We must continue our work until we find these measures, beyond conventional ones, to lay asphalt and to build social infrastructure that will increase the quality of human capital, improve the quality of life and therefore the debate is not over yet. What is provided for in the Investment Programme, what is also estimated by the operational programmes for investment, is realised, even though this document has not been formally approved.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u133	Mr. Minister, I was under the impression that for the next year, the very targeted investment programme, which in itself is complex measures - not only horizontal, is for impact on these regions, but it is necessary that the state actually be a partner of both municipalities and businesses. Here, from this tribune, I also asked Minister Lukarski about really where there are opportunities, perspective and demographic growth, where there are children where people can be held, and technological parks, industrial zones, this is provided for in the Programme itself, even not only funding from the state, but other financial instruments that can be... When they know that the state is behind these policies and entrepreneurs, and people should get caught up and say, "We are staying and not taking their children and going abroad, and others should say: "Yes, in these regions there is a focused policy. So far, the program is a collection of complex policies. In the various ministries all say: "Yes, yes, yes, yes, well. " The Prime Minister himself says: "We have a good collection of policies that we will implement through the targeted programme. " You have your reasons for these doubts, you have your financial and economic view of this. Perhaps for people living in these regions, this means that all that will be done will be operational programmes, the views of municipalities in the relationship with the central budget, and this Programme will remain like the designated dreams of mayors, regional governors, a non-bad team that has assembled the congregation, even made the package of investment projects that could be realized. It is my understanding that a third year there will be no act of the Council of Ministers on this Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u135	There will be no act of government adopting a program until there is a program. What is a mechanical sum of the demands of mayors and district managers does not answer the question of how the quality of education, quality of social protection, quality of life is improved. If with mechanical construction of an investment of a conventional type could solve this problem, certainly many governments, before the present, would have solved it. We are working hard on employment measures to create sustainable employment, measures that will not be applied in other municipalities, where the risk that is intacted in these less developed regions, which we comment with you, which are the focus of the programme, is not identified. We are talking about specific measures relating to education so that we can keep children in school, because in a large part of the areas we are talking about, access to education is weak and because of the social status of the families of the children in compulsory school age. In my opinion, this is the more important focus and while it is not in the program, I do not see the point of it If we make a nice road between Montana and Vidin, the only result of this will be that it will quickly reach from Montana to Vidin and from there through the Danube bridge outside. This will not create added value and quality of life either in Montana or in Vidin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to an up-to-date issue by the National Representative Velizar Enchev on the non-payment of the Bulgarian contribution to our membership in the United Institute for Nuclear Research. Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u137	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues, however little you may be in this room! The United Institute for Nuclear Research in the Russian city of Dubna is an international organization with 18 member states, plus six other countries involved. These are Germany, Italy, Hungary, Egypt, Serbia and the South African Republic. Bulgaria has been a co-founder of the United Institute for Nuclear Research since 1956 and has regularly paid its membership imports for 60 years, thus co-owner of this largest world scientific centre. Some of Bulgaria's contributions are used to pay the Bulgarians sent to work there, currently they are 33, and I will only tell you that ten years ago, in the past, they were over 100 people. In order to obtain a clearer picture, I suggest to your attention what are the contributions to this Institute of Different Countries: Bulgaria, as well as Romania, in recent years pays a million and a half dollars, Slovakia is paying 4 million. US$ 14 million in Poland. US$ 200 million, Russia $200 million. $30 million, Germany over 30 million. The dollar. My questions to you are as follows: why is this contribution taken out of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 as a separate item of Bulgaria's contribution to our membership in the United Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna; where is this contribution included in the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria; when and by which Bulgarian institution it will be paid; what specifically provides the Ministry of Finance for the financial provision of the intergovernmental and international commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria regarding the issues raised just now for our work as a member of the founder and co-owner of the United Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna? To this issue, I will only add my comment that at a time when a particularly large role is assigned to fundamental sciences, when so much we talk about these Hitek centers, which are created in Sofia and elsewhere in the country, the neglect of fundamental sciences, in this case nuclear physics, will have disastrous consequences for Bulgarian science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u138	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Here you are, Mr. Minister for Answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Enchev, bearing in mind that the National Group of Bulgarian Associates of the United Institute of Nuclear Research consists of specialists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Sofia University and others, by letter of the Minister of Finance to the Minister of Education and Science of June 2015, with a copy to the Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, we proposed to be appointed as the Plenipotentiary Representative of the Republic of Bulgaria at the United Institute the Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences or the Director of the Institute for Nuclear Research and Nuclear Energy at the Bulgarian Academy. To this end, the Ministry of Education and Science should take the initiative to amend the relevant legislation. In the letter, we clarified that in the event of a decision being taken on this in 2015, the funds provided for under the budget of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency for the payment of our country's due obligations for membership in the United Institute for Nuclear Research for 2015 will be transferred to the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science, respectively under the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. By the end of 2015, as at present, no such action has been taken by the institutions concerned. In response to the letter, the Ministry of Education informed us that it considered that a possible change in the representation of the Republic of Bulgaria at the United Institute for Nuclear Research should take place after a debate in the scientific community and with the participation of all interested organizations and agencies. Since at the time of the development and adoption of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 no measures were taken to change the representation of our country in the United Institute for Nuclear Research, the funds for payment of the due membership of our country in the United Institute for Nuclear Research for 2016 are provided for in the central budget, which according to Art. 42, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act is part of the state budget. According to the provision of art. 43, para. 3 of the same Law funds under the central budget shall be spent on the basis of an act of the government. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that the Ministry of Finance will be able to make the necessary changes to the budget of the senior authorising officer concerned with a budget at the expense of the funds allocated under the central budget for 2016 to pay the country's membership imports to the United Nuclear Research Institute after the adoption by the Council of Ministers of a decree approving additional expenditure under the relevant budget for 2016. Outside of this factology, I can also comment that so far no institution, apart from the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, has motivated the appropriateness to the extent to which it is committed to managing this process. If it is very important for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences or some of its scientific units to take over the resources we will provide it and to know that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences or some of its scientific units is the representing Bulgarian country organization at the Centre in Dubna. That's probably very appropriate. We don't discuss it, and we won't mind. We didn't look well and we continue to believe that the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, which has absolutely no concern of this, should be the national body that belongs to the organisation. We are ready for any debate and comment with the Ministry of Education and Science. By the way, a letter was received soon by the Ministry from the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Agency, expressing concern about this issue. We continue the intense debate with Mrs. Kuneva. The good news is the money's got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u140	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u141	Minister, I do not hide that I am satisfied with your reply, but partly, as we expect a decree of the Council of Ministers on this matter to be adopted and I hope this will happen as soon as possible so that it does not turn out that Bulgaria will be the last country to pay its contribution for this year to the International Institute for Nuclear Research in the Russian city of Dubna. As for the debate that wants to hold the Ministry of Education of Mrs. Kuneva, such a debate is not necessary at all. There is no need to argue the need to develop cooperation with the Institute, in which we are co-owners, in which we have invested not only money but huge intellectual potential. So this debate is not only unnecessary and unnecessary, we should not talk about such a debate at all, as it is an alphabetical truth. We must pay this contribution and I hope that your cooperation will happen as soon as possible, rather the Council of Ministers will adopt the relevant decree, i.e. there will be an act of the government. Because, ultimately, the royal stables in Bulgaria cannot be more important than nuclear science in Bulgaria, nuclear energy in Bulgaria, because we still live in the 21st and not in the 19th century. Once again, I rely entirely on your commitment to this issue, as I understand from your speech that you are not only not against, but are ready to support and submit such a decree, an act of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u142	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Will you use the right to the back? No. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Kostadin Markov and is related to the Burgas - Alexandroupolis project. Mr. Markov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister! As a representative from Burgas, I am puzzled by a statement by the Director of..Trans.. Nikolay Tokarev that the Bulgarian partners have given them a pleasant surprise and I quote: They are against the liquidation of the company operator that was created for this project and was preserved. Now everyone has an interest in it, including the Bulgarian partners. In the same statement Mr. Tokarev says that the Russian side has proposed the termination of the joint company "Trans Balkan Pipline B.V." but have received a refusal from the Bulgarian side. In the light of the above, please answer the following questions: if this is a fact, what does the maintenance of the company operator of Is there really such a formal notification from the Bulgarian side and which is the institution that sent the official notification to................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The most important question: what are the intentions of the Bulgarian government in relation to the project "Burgas - Alexandroupolis"?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u144	Thank you, Mr. Markov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u145	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Markov, as is known in 2015 the Bulgarian shareholder in Trance Balkan Pipline B.V.s, submitted an application to the Chamber of Commerce of the Court of Appeal in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, with a request for liquidation of the International Project Company. Prior to that, a project company Burgas pipeline sent a proposal to the other shareholders in Trans Balkan Pipeline B.V. to adopt a joint decision on voluntary liquidation of the International Project Company, in response to which written refusals were received from Russia and the Greek shareholder to adopt such a decision. At the beginning of 2016, the Bulgarian shareholder decided to withdraw the application from the court and the official position on this action is as follows. The Bulgarian shareholder maintains its position as stated in the above application to the Chamber of Commerce. However, the Bulgarian shareholder withdrew its application in the interest of preserving the moment of the possibility of using the corporate vehicle for other projects in the future, other than the Project for the construction and exploitation of the Burgas pipeline, Alexandroupolis, as persistent recommendations in this direction came from a Greek country. In relation to questions concerning the intentions of the Bulgarian Government regarding the project "Burgas". Alexandroupolis, I note that on the basis of the government's proposal by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 84 of 2013, in 2013 the National Assembly adopted the Law for the Prejudice of the Agreement between the Government of the Russian Federation, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Greek Republic for Cooperation in the Construction and Operation of the Oil pipeline Burgas. The moment your question came, I was surprised to get acquainted with Mr. Tokarev's statements, which I cannot commit to whether they are correct or not. The position of the Bulgarian state is the one I introduced you to. With regard to the cost, about 120 thousand per year is the annual budget of the project company Burgas lv. Annually.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u146	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u147	Dear Minister, Mr Chairman, colleagues! I am satisfied with the response to the government's position on the Project. However, I do not understand why we do not persist in ending this company when it is not clear to me at all how can a registered legal entity benefit for other purposes with the same participants with any proportion of participation in it? It doesn't seem very meaningful to me the argument that this could weigh on to continue the existence of this company. And the continuation of existence keeps in tension all Burgas, which are extremely sensitive to this problem and who gave their opinion in two or three referendums to all municipalities that are in the great Bay of Burgas. Therefore, I personally believe that the government must take decisive measures to end the operation of the operator company.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u148	Would you like to take advantage of the right to the backrest? No. Thank you, Mr. Markov. We move on to the next issue and it is from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on the possibilities for reducing the budget deficit on a cash basis of 2% for 2016. The issue will develop the people's representative Petar Slavov. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u149	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our question really concerns the current subject of the budget deficit and the possibilities for its reduction. Why is it important? I think we all know. So, Dear Minister, the Ministry of Finance reported at the end of July this year a surplus in the budget of over 3.3 billion. lv. At the same time, the 2016 budget is estimated to be 2% deficit, mainly as consequences of the severe legacy of the Oresharski cabinet and the bankruptcy of KTB, which escalated the budget deficit in 2014 to sadly The record 6%. As early as April this year, you pointed out that significantly less at that time over-execution of revenue will be used to reduce the budget deficit. The benefits of reducing the budget deficit on a cash-based basis below 1% of gross domestic product are evidently an increased investor confidence, an end to the debt spiral effect in recent years and a long-term guarantee of financial stability and growth. Against the backdrop of the continuing instability in neighbouring Greece, possible stabilisation of public finances, lastingly by Bulgaria, will be an important signal for investors and private creditors. In this regard, Minister, please answer the following question: what part of the surplus will be used to reduce the budget deficit and does the Ministry of Finance have the ambition to conclude the budget year with a deficit of less than 1% of the gross domestic product calculated on a cash basis?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u150	Mr. Slavov, the issue is referred to under 2%. But, as you have developed it, I hope the Minister understands very well what this is about. Come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Slavov! Thanks for asking. I take the opportunity to reaffirm the commitment to achieve a greater than the planned step to shrink the deficit in 2016, sticking to those regulated in the Public Finance Act adopted during the first term of GERB, fiscal rules. Including the budget balance rule for the consolidated fiscal programme, calculated on a cash basis, the government is making efforts through its fiscal policy to achieve close to zero balance in the medium term. As you have noted, the deficit escalated in 2014 and a major priority in the policy of the current government since the beginning of its mandate has been implementing measures for consistent fiscal consolidation and reducing debt burden as a result. With the convergence programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2016 - 2019 and in the medium-term budgetary forecast for the period 2017 - 2019, we made a commitment that the budgetary balance at the end of the forecast period will be close to the balanced. Indeed, the budgetary challenges at the beginning of the current government's mandate have been severe and do not allow for more active fiscal consolidation, but, at the moment, thanks to the actions taken, they have been largely overcome and the situation in this year has been significantly improved. The developments in the main macroeconomic and fiscal indicators since the beginning of the year are positive. For a second year in a row, the implementation of the revenue side of the budget reports a significant improvement, with the majority of the main taxes growing significantly ahead of the growth of the economy and indicating improved collection and ejection of light to some of the turnovers of the grey economy. According to preliminary data as of August, revenues under the consolidated fiscal programme increased nominally by about 1.5 billion compared to the same period of the previous year, with the forecast of the Ministry of Finance in an annual plan setting out a re-execution of estimates of tax revenues and insurance contributions. The implementation of indirect taxes and corporate tax, social and health insurance contributions is good. It is important to note here that this is the result of the measures and efforts taken by revenue administrations to increase collection. As a result of the better parameters reported for the implementation of the national budget's revenue and the lower planned implementation of expenditure in the first half of the year, the budget balance as of 31 August 2016 according to operational data and estimates is an surplus of 3.3 billion or 3.7 per cent of the estimated gross domestic product. A surplus of 622 million or 0.7 per cent of GDP was reported in comparison with the same period last year, which means that as a relative share of GDP, the budget position improves by about three percentage points. A significant impact on the current KFP balance also says the accounts for EU funds, where the excess of revenue over costs represents 1.5 per cent of the estimated gross domestic product. The ambition of the Ministry of Finance is the positive trends in revenue to be confirmed in the remaining months by the end of the year, with the budget balance of the Consolidated fiscal programme expected to end with a deficit of less than 1%. Thus, our assessment of a significant improvement in the balance of the KFP compared to the estimates of the annual law will allow much of the resources envisaged to finance the deficit in this year to be saved in the fiscal reserve. Also, the intended buffer in relation to the asset quality review will not be used, as we have stated before, and it also remains available in the fiscal reserve. In this way, there is a possibility that the accumulated resources in the fiscal reserve will be sufficient to meet the upcoming payments in 2017 on maturity bonds, issuance of international foreign exchange markets, which will lead to a net reduction in government debt. As I announced about a month ago, we are planning the new debt limit in the 2017 budget to be zero.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u152	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Slavov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u153	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I'll start where you guys graduated. I am pleased to hear that your ambitions, both for you as a minister and for the Ministry of Finance for this year, are being reduced to 1% of gross domestic product, which is a significantly better result than the 2% invested in the budget for this year. Indeed, as you have mentioned, there is a relatively good macroeconomic environment, a relatively good collection rate, a number of overruns of the collection rate of a number of public claims, so there are indeed prerequisites. I very much hope that you will succeed in achieving this good result. What worries me, of course, is that by the end of the year, what has happened often in recent years, perhaps a little further back in time from the time of the three coalition, when there were even surpluses, a promiscuous spending for something. Then, I remember, there were a number of meaningless and unreasonable purchases, pink BMVs and so on, not to remind them, some accumulated surpluses of billions including being spent on goals that were obviously not in the public interest, and this money was largely spent pointlessly. So that's the main thing that's bothering us. We really hope that you will be able to contain things there and not have such meaningless spending. Of course, the important investment costs for the state for which both you and the Prime Minister have undertaken commitments such as defence spending, acquisition of new defence capabilities, health care and so on, to be carried out because this is important for national security. I will end up with a slight provocation to you why not really aim even more ambitious and this year end with a balanced budget, and why not with an excess? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Minister Goranov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm ready to respond to the second provocation, but it's a little early. What I can summarize is that there will be no change in the cost of the budget of the type in which it is voted in the National Assembly. There will be no policy of knowingly cutting additional costs so that we do not get a criticism from the left that we are in some way acting pro-cyclically about the potential for growth of gross domestic product. We will implement the budget, as it has been adopted, and the whole better implementation of the revenue side compared to what is estimated in the budget will only go to reduce the deficit. This means, on the basis of the estimates from now on, that the budget balance will be below 1% and slightly above a balanced budget, firmly, regardless of the risks to which development is linked by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u156	Thank you, dear Minister. We're moving on to the final question for you. He is one of the MPs Yavor Haytov and Petar Ivanov Petrov about staying without food vouchers for the period from August to December. You have the floor, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! About 400,000 workers in Bulgaria will remain without bonuses to their salaries for 5 months from August to December because of restrictions introduced by the Ministry of Finance and the huge interest in food coupons that their employers give them. The reason for this is that the quotas for food vouchers this year will end unprecedentedly early at the end of August. According to data from the Association of Vouchers Operators, the quota of the Ministry of Finance was in demand in 2016 it was fixed at 260 million. BGN, distributed to 130 allowances of 2 million. According to the Association, capacity is exhausted as more employers are increasingly taking advantage of the opportunities to distribute food vouchers to their workers. The unions have already warned that this restriction will lead to social tension, as the real decrease in wages is about 300 BGN, as the practice is to give 60 BGN. in the form of vouchers. Businesses and trade unions insist that quotas be dropped or a fairer mechanism is found to determine them. The Association of Vouchers states that from 42 countries in the world where such a system operates, only in our country there are quotas. In neighbouring Romania, for example, quotas were removed in 2004, which did not result in a drastic increase in the vouchers used. Vouchers are considered a way to lighten the economy. According to a study commissioned by the Association of Vouchers Operators, the positive net effect for the proposal for the increase of the quota by the end of the year will be 724 thousand. lv. However, if companies bear the cost of food coupons for October "December," their costs will increase by 19.5 million. lv. Thanks to vouchers food consumption increases by 7%. Our question to you is: What will you do in this regard so that you do not deprive 400,000 Bulgarian families of bonuses by the end of the year? Will you accept the offer of the Association of Vouchers operators to increase by 240 million? lv. the vouchers quota by the end of the year? And in this regard, will you increase the quota for next year, because it is obvious that more and more companies are joining this system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u158	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Minister Goranov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Haytov, Mr. Petrov! I share the concerns of these businessmen operating with food vouchers, but things always have two sides. The amount of the total annual quota for the provision of food vouchers shall be consistent with the state budget parameters and shall serve as a basis for determining the amount of tax expenditure when drawing up the budget, which will be formed by applying the corresponding tax reductions. The existence of a common quota, in addition to being the result of a expressly envisaged legal delegation, is also the only effective mechanism for controlling the tax expenditure for the state budget. We also have special vouchers with protection for a reason, as we are talking about tax evasion due to the budget. The ex ante assessment of these tax costs is of particular importance in carrying out a strict fiscal and budgetary policy as an element of better management of public finances. A correction in the initially allocated annual quota for 2016 can only be carried out with a change in the State Budget Act, which in the official language we say to it For 2016, an estimated estimate of the tax costs related to this tax relief has been prepared. It is estimated at around 103.2 million. lv. In the event of an increase in the 2016 quota by 240 million lv. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. lv. from taxes and social security contributions, which raises the question of its compensation. I do not share your concern that 400,000 Bulgarian families will remain without bonuses by the end of the year for the following reasons. There is no limit to providing food vouchers by employers. Only the amount of tax relief for food vouchers and their nominal value for the year is limited. Socially oriented employers can provide social benefits by paying the necessary statutoryly regulated taxes and insurance to continue to maintain the normal efficiency of their employees. The persons will be left without food vouchers only in case their employers decide not to give them these vouchers. Tax relief is not intended to help households, but to provide social benefits supporting the efficiency and productivity of everyone employed. The relief is not an additional remuneration or addition to the employee's salary, but a social benefit. In recent months of exhaustion of the 2016 quota, there has been an artificially created stress situation on the food vouchers market by some of the operators and quota restocking by the end of the year. At the same time, fighting for market share, operators encourage employers to purchase food vouchers to be used in 2017. In conclusion, it should be stressed that one of the main reasons for the exhaustion of the quotas for food vouchers is that these quotas provide both food vouchers under Ordinance No 7 of 2003 on the terms and conditions for issuing and withdrawing authorisations to operate as an operator of food vouchers and operating as an operator, and under Ordinance No 11 except for Ordinance No 7 and Regulation No 11 of 2005. In order to determine the terms and conditions for providing free food and/or additives thereto. The combined application of the provisions of the two regulations effectively leads to the exhaustion of the quotas under Regulation No 7 as part of the quotas are used for food vouchers issued under Regulation No 11 without practically being necessary. The trade unions and employers' debate will continue. There will also be an increase in the quota of food vouchers next year. At the end of last year there was tension only in the last month of the year when we took measures to increase the quota so that this year is not observed. Once again, the incorrect application of the regulations by certain undertakings providing free food, plus the fight for market share of food vouchers operators, leads to the overstocking and excess load of the limit that was expected after it reached 11 months last year at its increase this year to reach 12 months. Obviously these market distortions that we are seeing, on which the National Revenue Agency will work more deeply, can easily be removed, but the thesis and the claim that removing the limit will not affect the budget is not true as it limits tax reductions. The argument that this stimulates consumption is correct only where it is avoided that the poor practice to reduce the remuneration paid at the expense of the vouchers used. And the thesis that by dropping the limit, there will be more revenue in the budget, with the same argument we can come up with a Perpetum mobile.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u160	Thank you, dear Minister. For a replica, the People's Representative Yavor Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, your answer was very clear, very accurate and very specific. In fact, it is expected that a minister of finance will speak clearly, precisely and specifically, and not in general. In fact, we understood, not only us, but 400,000 families who are users of this type of vouchers, that by the end of the year it is not possible to get an increase in the quota, as no one lives in an illusory world that at present the Bulgarian political situation implies an update of the budget. In essence, our question with colleague Petrov is really up to date, and that is because we are entering a period when the budget for the next calendar year is being drawn up for the next calendar year s, and we will commit ourselves to the extent that we have the strength as a parliamentary group, to make it possible for the Bulgarian citizens who receive this type of bonuses through vouchers to receive them regularly, systematically and throughout the year. But I will also allow myself to make a suggestion, I do not know how appropriate it is to do it now and at this time, but we have never hidden our sympathy for business and in particular for the Bulgarian business. Because Bulgarian businessmen need help, support and some kind of protection from the Bulgarian government. After all, they are the ones who pay taxes, and from these taxes we also receive our salaries. Not just us and you, including the ministers. Our thesis is: is it not possible to receive only Bulgarian goods through vouchers, only Bulgarian products? And I remember, Mr. Minister, the time about fifteen years ago, when under a similar scheme, through social assistance, by the idea of the Ministry of Agriculture, where I remember that you were a leading factor, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, then under the leadership of Deputy Minister Tanya Vasileva, it was made so that part of the social payments were in kind and only from Bulgarian products, which is important and is support for the Bulgarian business, which we are actually all loving finally working more actively, paying larger taxes, paying larger contributions and hiring more Bulgarians to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Minister Goranov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u163	First, as an announcement for the following year, we thought, making assessments and considering that the problem of 2015 will not be repeated and should not be repeated in 2016. Alas, it is repeated, we believe, based on these distortions, which I cited to you, the wrong use of tax discount vouchers for the purpose of providing free food by state enterprises, such as the Kozloduy nuclear power plant, I can quote others. What we will certainly do, I could also provide you with an analysis of these market distortions, as food vouchers operators are in competition with regard to their market share, restocking is observed, and there is even overstocking with quotas for food vouchers operators as well as employers who are worried that a shortage of vouchers may be left without these tax benefits. I am making a request that we will try to increase the quota in the next year so that we bring it closer to its sufficientness, as the number of economic entities cannot grow unless there is an irregularity, there is no way to grow at this rate, which shows that it does not reach the quota. Otherwise, the theory of ethatism that you have developed slightly, and protectionism is a very good topic, and I philosophically support it. Unfortunately, it is only applicable outside the European Union, and we are hardly making a request for its recent departure. Until then, the common market obliges us to apply similar mechanisms to all goods originating in the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u164	Thank you, dear Minister. We also thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions of Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism, who will answer a single question from the National Representative Dora Yankova about Bulgaria's investment map in the field of tourism. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Yankova, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is a continuation of the debate here, from this stand of May last year on the potential for tourism in Smolyan region. Then, from this tribune, you stated that you are working for Bulgaria's investment map in the field of tourism, which will create opportunities for targeted design of possible investment projects. And you have undoubtedly made an announcement that local authorities are most interested in this at local level. You stated that investment proposals were received from Smolyan, Zlatograd, Banite, Chepelare and Madan municipalities. The investment map is part of the integrated policy for introducing a model for stimulating investment in modernisation of the material base of the principles of sustainable development. During these few months of your speech in the electoral district, I have been asked a number of questions about people who are dealing with the tourism industry, people who are looking for livelihood, people who want to either stay in the area or who are making an account of being separated. This interest is caused by the fact that you have made an announcement that it is possible in exactly five leading municipalities on the basis of these investment proposals to have both design and investment projects respectively. I ask you to answer specifically about what are the investment proposals from Smolyan Municipality, Zlatograd, Banite, Chepelare and Madan? What will the Ministry led by you do to stimulate precisely investment on the basis of these proposals so that the material base can be modernised, as you have it as a philosophy and understanding of the principles of sustainable development? And is there an interest by strategic tourism investors in the Rhodope region? In fact, when will the investment card in question be publicly announced on the website or at the Ministry or at some forum? Because yes, it is true that this year in the field of tourism is successful in the summer, it is true that you are trying with legal proposals to focus this industry to become more modern. And congratulations on wanting to stand downtown. But do you have enough strength? Just a moment ago Minister Goranov on a matter which was important in the programme for development of the Rhodopes had one focus for tourism, there were recorded projects related to tourism, which will be stimulated. His response was that this philosophy with such a program would be gone, that we would be on the manual management of the government and rather the view through the focus of the state budget and European projects. Here I want you to give your understanding of the tourism in the Rhodopes, which is for the four seasons, what will really happen as a perspective? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u166	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Minister Angelkova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u167	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, regarding your question about Bulgaria's investment map in the field of tourism, I inform you the following. During the summer of the past year, the first stage for collecting project investment proposals from municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria was held by sending letters to all municipalities, asking them to send us their proposals that are important to them. We've received a response from about 100 municipalities. In order to raise the maximum number of proposals, we held the second stage of their recruitment, and this time, apart from the respective municipalities, we also addressed the regional governors. A special table was sent to everyone with specific parameters to meet the proposed proposals, and in the parameters we introduced the established concept for tourist zoning of Bulgaria. At present we have received 140 responses from all municipalities and regional administrations. The necessary technical specification for the announcement of the contract for drawing up the investment map of Bulgaria is being developed and is yet to be announced. Our idea is for the investment card to be both on paper and available online. A selected number of projects will be printed in paper form, which have been selected after the summary of all proposals received. The interactive version of the investment map will include all the projects that are provided to us. In this way, we will give every investment proposal a chance and opportunity to reach its potential investor. The already drawn up investment card will be presented to potential investors both in the country and abroad. Besides the marketing of the map, the Ministry also provides the necessary assistance to everyone interested in investing in the development of the tourist sector in Bulgaria. We work in coordination with the relevant institutions to ease the administrative process and help the overall process of realising the investment. We believe that all of this in itself, in the first place, will give viable projects a chance to be targeted. Cooperation by the Ministry of Tourism in implementing the relevant projects will stimulate the interest of potential investors and the overall sustainability for the development of the sector in the country. I present to your attention the proposals we have received from the municipalities listed by you: - Smolyan Municipality Adventure eco-park in the area around the lift station of the Smolyan Lakes. - Municipality of Zlatograd - first project: "Integrating use of thermal water accumulated in the geothermal system Erma river "Elige" - including a working project - Building of a geothermal heating system of the town of Zlatograd "; second project: "Communication route town of Zlatograd" - "Zlatograd" station "Termes" (Xanti) "; third project: "Project for the construction of a balneosanatorium in a regulated land estate with an area of 5525 square meters; - Municipality of Banite - Chepelare Municipality offers are provided by the Regional Administration of Smolyan: a multifunctional sports hall in the resort complex "Pamporovo" and the National Sports Center in Chepelare for preparation of athletes and sports center in Chepelare for the preparation of athletes. The project is worth 1100-1400 meters, including a multifunctional sports hall, complex, rollerban for skiing and biathlon, value of the project "10.5 million." lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Municipality of Madan The express funds of the project proposal are a film screening and a scenographic multimedia performance, as well as a thematic exhibition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u168	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Yankova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u169	Dear Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is good that you will give publicity to investment projects, to the desire of municipalities in certain places, to already established public-private partnerships, such as the Sports-Tourist Center. Your role, your status in the Council of Ministers, as Minister of Tourism, is extremely important to look for additional financial instruments. The fact that they will be announced for Bulgarian entrepreneurs, for the people of the world who will look here to realize something is one side. I continue to insist on a complex approach in this area. Indeed, the locomotive of all these projects in the Central Rhodopes is the Sports-Turkish Center, in the south is the geothermal water in Zlatograd. The rest will give an extra announcement and one power. I wish that if the government would stay until the end of the term, stand in the center and partner with the business, with the banks, with the local authorities, so that these things can happen, because very often we have strategies, programs, registers that for people is selling dreams, and the status quo on the spot is poverty, poor infrastructure, roadless and families that go abroad. By welcoming you to create a public register, you are gathering everything in one place for upgrading the base, for tourism, for seeking strategic investors, I am addressing you for even greater activity in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u170	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Minister Angelkova, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Yankova, I would like to thank you for your greetings and for supporting the efforts we are making. I can assure you that we will continue to fight even more actively and to work coordinatedly with all of the Council of Ministers, with our colleagues, we are working wonderfully and continuously, because you know that tourism is a horizontal structure, both with local authorities and with business. Only in this way can we achieve sustainability and visible results. I hope that by the end of the year we will be able to show you the interactive map by promoting all the projects that municipalities have submitted to us by the end of the year so that we can cooperate with them even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-16.u172	Thank you, dear Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control, which actually ends with this response. We have run out of agendas due to running out of questions scheduled for today. The next meeting will be on Wednesday, 21 September 2016, at 9.00 p.m. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
