ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u1	Colleagues, good afternoon. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Mr. Merdjanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I take the floor to make a procedural proposal to the President of the National Assembly to invite Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, not only because there is another murder or robbery, but that we are discovering the tourist season to which so many expectations have been made, with another beginning of a gang war. A number of meetings were held, instructive meetings on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, and something inexplicable is happening. Please invite Mrs. Bachvarova to explain the measures and what the Ministry of Interior has done, as well as the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior in Burgas on the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u3	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. I will do it in a timely manner, just to make the announcements for the beginning of the plenary session. Dear Members of the Parliament, by letter No 654-00-95 of 8 June 2016, the People's Representative Polina Karastoyanova made an application to me on the grounds of art. 14, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly states that he is leaving the Parliamentary Group. In connection with Ms. Karastoyanova's application, I inform you that according to art. 22, para. 2 of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the Standing Committees shall be released early upon termination of their membership in the Parliamentary Group from whose quota they are elected. In accordance with art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly are announced, which I am doing at the moment, without discussing and voting. On these grounds, I declare the release of MP Polina Karastoyanova as Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media and Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Yesterday, on 8 June, he received and distributed to the MPs a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Privatization Act and post-privatization control adopted on the first vote on 2 June this year. The project is drawn up by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. In April 2016, the National Statistical Institute received information on indexes of turnover in the Department of Retail Trade, excluding trade in cars and motorcycles, in April 2016, indexes of industrial production in April 2016 and indexes of construction production in April 2016. The material is available to all MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We move on to the first item for today's plenary sitting: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE GARANTION AGREEMENT (the PROJECT FOR THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE PULSES) BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will be presented to us by Mrs. Diana Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u4	Thank you, Madam President. First, I ask for a procedure for the admission of Mr. Radoslav Milenkov, Chairman of the Board of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u5	We vote, fellow Members. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u6	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Project for strengthening the guarantee of deposits) between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. At its regular meeting on 2 June 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. The bill was presented by Mrs. Karina Karaivanova, Deputy Minister of Finance. By a protocol decision under point (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Directive 2014/59/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2014 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data, 14 of Protocol No 6 of the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 10 February 2016 was approved Draft Guarantee Agreement (Project to strengthen the guarantee of deposits) between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IMF) under the Loan Agreement (Project to strengthen the guarantee of deposits) between the Ministry of Interior and the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Banks (FTB) amounting to EUR 300 million. The decision is in addition to negotiations on a State guarantee on a loan to FCB of the same size by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The State guarantee loan from the IBRC to FCB amounted to 300 million. Euros. The purpose of the loan is to fill the reserves of FGB. By obtaining the loan funds, FIB will achieve greater financial independence and sustainability to fulfil its deposit guarantee obligations and restructuring of credit institutions. The loan agreement provides for the loan funds to be granted in instalments following the implementation of the absorption indicators described therein, aimed at strengthening the financial and institutional capacity of the FCB to fulfil its mandate. The repayment of the principal under the loan is envisaged to take place in annual contributions under a scheme - with a first contribution on 15 June 2022 and a final contribution on 15 June 2026. The loan was agreed at the standard fees of the MVR (original and commitment fee) and an interest rate based on 6 months EURIBOR and fixed spread. The interest and fee commitment shall be payable twice a year and the initial fee shall be financed by the borrower by own resources. The State guarantee on that loan is in line with the legal framework, including the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The funds to cover the risk of activation of the State guarantee for subsequent years will be implemented within the framework of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant years. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: With 10 votes for a commitment, 3 votes against abstinence and 1 abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support a first vote Draft for ratification of the guarantee agreement (Project for strengthening the guarantee of deposits) between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce you to her President Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Project on Strengthening Deposit Guarantee) between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. At its meeting held on 26 May 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Project for strengthening the guarantee of deposits) between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Feyzi Bekir "Deputy Minister, Mrs. Desislava Lazova and Mrs. Tsvetana Atanasova" State experts at the International Financial Institutions and Cooperation Directorate. The bill was presented by Mr. Feizy Bekir, who pointed out that by Decision of the Council of Ministers of 10 February 2016, the Minister of Finance was authorised to hold negotiations with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and to sign on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria a Guarantee Agreement on a project to strengthen the guarantee of deposits subject to subsequent ratification. The guarantee agreement between the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Republic of Bulgaria provides for a loan of 300 million. Euros. Mr. Bekir pointed out that the use of the loan aims to fill the Fund's reserves and achieve greater financial independence and sustainability in fulfilling its obligations to guarantee deposits and restructuring credit institutions. The loan funds will be allocated to instalments following the implementation of the indicators related to its absorption described in the loan agreement, which aim to strengthen its financial and institutional capacity. The repayment of the principal of the loan is planned to take place in annual instalments and the first contribution is due 15 June 2022 and the last contribution on 15 June 2026. The loan is agreed at the bank's standard fees and interest rate based on 6 months EURIBOR and fixed spread payable twice a year. The ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Chavdar Georgiev, Emil Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. People's representative Chavdar Georgiev expressed reservations regarding the need for this agreement and said he would not support it. In response to his question Mr. Bekir and Mrs. Atanasova pointed out that monitoring of the Bulgarian banking system is currently taking place, which checks the capital adequacy of the banks and borrowing guarantees the greater stability and financial independence of the banking sector, thus ensuring its more stable development. Mr. Bekir and Mrs. Atanasova have announced that there are no legal mechanisms for the Bulgarian state to exercise control over the spending or use of these funds by the Fund, but the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will pay the loan in instalments only after the implementation of indicators related to the absorption of the loan and thus will be able to control the spending of the funds, its work and financial condition. The MPs Danail Kirilov and Emil Dimitrov expressed their support to the Bill, pointing out that the loan aims to secure the work of the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the opportunity to react to any challenge. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 10 votes...... 2 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. From the importer? I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleague Goranov, honourable colleagues! I would like to introduce you to four or five basic facts that we need to bear in mind before we proceed to the vote. Firstly, honourable Members, it should be borne in mind that it is not about any guarantee or guarantee, but about the fact that the Bulgarian Government, understand the taxpayers through the budget, become debtors of this loan of 300 million, as well as the next point of................................................................................ What are the facts? I quote, honourable colleagues, art. 1?General conditions and definitions, art. 2 is the guarantee, Section 2.0.1. I quote: The guarantee declares its agreement with the objectives of the project. To this end, without limitation on any of its other obligations under the guarantee agreement with the current guarantor, I open the clamp, understand the government, continue the quote: That is to say, the myth that this is about some kind of warranty and a guarantee that may be realized in the future is not true. The truth is in the treaty, which is presented for ratification and which has signed the Minister of Finance, respectively the Bulgarian government. We're in debt, ladies and gentlemen, not a guarantor, it's in the contract. Secondly, open up, honourable Members, the motives. I had the opportunity informally, collegiately and calmly to discuss this issue with my colleague Goranov. Open the government's motives for two countries for both 600 million bills. EUR total. In these two sides, colleagues, there's nothing, not a single number. The only number is in the first project that the loan is of 300 million and in the second project of 300 million. I know the composition of the Ministry of Finance very well. There work highly qualified colleagues who have the opportunity to provide detailed, detailed estimates of how these loans will affect and their payment on the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria in the years when we pay interest, and in the year when the maturity comes. [[GERB lines.]] There's no such thing as an estimate. There is not a single table, not a single number, there is no calculation of what impact would have on the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, i.e. the second argument, honourable Members, is that the procedures for the adoption of bills and laws in the National Assembly have been violated. We are obliged to show what the impact of the adoption of a law is. In this case, we are asked to sign an empty check for 300 plus 300 million euros without the Ministry of Finance giving us absolutely no estimate of what this is about. [[GERB lines.]] Furthermore, honourable Members, such an estimate is essential because if you get familiar with the details of the contract you will see that the main payments are for the period after 2022 to 2026. In the debt principal repayment tables you will see that 46% of the principal is paid in the last year. We are talking about extreme pressure on Bulgaria's budget during these years. Therefore, we are not provided with data and we are told how the Bulgarian State will be able to meet these payments eventually, given that I would like to remind you that these are the years when the principal maturity of the 16 billion debt comes out, just after 2020. Heavy and woe to the Minister of Finance, who will have to make the estimates on how the 16 billion payments will be made and possibly on this 1 billion. 200 million. Thirdly, the third argument that we point out in the case of our disagreement with the support of this ratification is the objectives that are set out on these two sides also for this huge debt. I quote again, colleagues. The government is based on two mutually exclusive targets. Why? First objective, I quote: Filling in the reserves of the Guarantee Fund and supporting its financing structures. That's a first target. The second:.. At the same time the use of the loan funds to partially or fully repay the loan granted to this Fund at the expense of Budget 2014 amounting to 1.7 billion. lv. This text is set out in the motives of both draft laws - 300 plus 300 million euros. Dear fellow importers, I assume that the Minister of Finance will answer the question: which of the two goals are you pursuing as one excludes the other? You claim in the first goal that you will strengthen the Fund. Sounds really good. The second objective is that you will not strengthen the Fund, but will simply use the Fund as a bank. I mean, it's a government loan of a billion and 200 million.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u11	Oh, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u12	That's right! You're the one who put him on the line. You bet it, I quote that the Fund could pay back that 1 billion. Seven hundred million. BGN, which we gave to the Fund at the end of 2014 in order to pay under the Law for the provision of mandatory deposits up to 100 thousand. Euros. Isn't that right? Therefore, answer! The reasons do not have any estimates.......................................................................................... will they return to the budget, the other 600 million will remain euros or 1 billion and 200 million in the Fund, BGN 5,00. They're gonna pay back the budget, how much?! We're talking about $1 billion here. 200 million. lv. without a single syllable of where and how that money will go. We suspect that this 1 billion. 200 million. lv. it is very likely that they are related to the second objective - that is, to enter into the budget, to take account of more revenue and to spend money in connection with the upcoming presidential elections. In addition, keep in mind that this illustrates an extremely selfish approach of the government.................... the government.................................................................... So, it first worsens the results for 2014, as the 1 billion 700 million that we are obliged to pay went for a budget deficit in 2014, as a result of which 2015 seemed to be better than zero and how much there... This is where the Prime Minister introduced us the other day. He was better than 2014. And now, 2016, the budget can enter 1 billion. 200 million. BGN, so, surplus in the budget, which the Minister of Finance can spend. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u13	Mr. Mihov, you will have the opportunity to reply. Please, not from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u14	In addition, the next element is the fourth element. The question remains why the Guarantee Fund does not withdraw a loan from the commercial banks in Bulgaria? After all, the Guarantee Fund is not a division of the government and the Ministry of Finance. It's an independent legal entity. Its task is to ensure stability of the banking system, along with the other institutions of the banking system. What prevents this Fund, I ask: why does it not withdraw the same loan from the Bulgarian commercial banks, which are wondering what to make deposits of more than 60 billion. lv.? Investments have been frozen and domestic, foreign also, the foreign trade turnover has been shrinking since the beginning of the year by almost 2%, that is, they are wondering what to do with the money. Here the question arises: yes, however, this loan may be a little more expensive than the loan from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. But first, where does it say it's more expensive? We, honourable Members, have no estimates of how much the loan from the Bulgarian commercial banks will cost and how much the loan from these institutions will cost. The mechanism is indicated here that interest is determined on a market basis plus a fixed part. It also says here that interest can be floating, can be fixed and the government, respectively the Fund, can change this mechanism if you wish, but I didn't see any number anywhere. If you please, tell me what the interest is..2,25; 0,23? Have you ever negotiated with our commercial banks why they're left behind? Why, since Bulgaria has more than 60 billion. lv. deposits, are we going to fall under external dependence? A few years ago the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank practically came out of Bulgaria's field because we have low government debt, stable finances we had until recently and we didn't need their help. We are now sending a signal to the whole world, leaving the Bulgarian banks behind that we are once again hanging on international financial institutions. For what reason?! There is no answer to the question: why are these loans not used by Bulgarian commercial banks? Moreover, not least, since we are forced to resort to such loans from international financial institutions, a simple question arises: is it true that we have by the end of the year a fiscal reserve of 11 billion, which is at relatively record levels, a very good reserve? If that's true, why don't we use this surplus reserve, then we go to external loans? I'll tell you why. Because this reserve is virtual. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, we are at the sanitary minimum in the fiscal reserve of 4.5 billion. Do you know why? Because in that 11 billion, right, Minister of Finance, is the new loan we took out, for 4 billion, it's in the fiscal reserve. Isn't it the fiscal reserve that paid off First Investment Bank, which means that it has strengthened and recovered the government's loan, which is in the same reserve, not generated by the Bulgarian economy? Isn't that the same reserve the other loans outside of that 16 billion, by law? So we don't have any reserves of 11 billion. We are at the sanitary minimum and this debunks the last myth, because if we had that money, we wouldn't be going to pray to international financial institutions. Therefore, reading the treaty, we believe that the enslavement of the Bulgarian state as a debtor writes here, outside 16 billion, ladies and gentlemen, you are walking towards 20 billion debt. We will vote strongly against. Thank you. [[Reply from the MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u15	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gechev, dear colleagues! Mr. Gechev, I don't know how much power you're facing here, from the stands, to speak, but I'll deal with this a little later. So, neither is virtual 2.7 billion revenue in the budget from smuggling, nor are they...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u17	Where are the smugglers?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u18	Smugglers where they are, it's none of my business, and it's none of your business. There are institutions that can tell where they are and what happens to them. But I do not know how much power you stand to talk here about the economy and finances of the state after, Mr. Gechev, in your time? 1996, you have bankrupted the Bulgarian banks! Thank God GERB wasn't there then. So, Mr. Gechev, a little more moderate in his speeches, a little more moderate in throwing hollow phrases here, from this tribune, so we don't have to fight and not do any work. I call you to this thing. I hope you'll listen to me even though you've never done it before, but there's a beginning to everything. I beg you: more moderate, so that we can do something good for this country! Otherwise, the hollow phrases for a budget hole, for lack of finance, for virtual finance and such things we all know, but we don't need to use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman! My fellow Member, I will not go into your strange comparisons because we are not here to discuss qualifications. My qualification is determined by other authorities and institutions in Bulgaria and beyond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u21	I didn't talk about your qualifications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u22	Yes, thank you. You've spoken politely. But that's not why we're here. I'd like to hear from my colleagues counterarguments. I've presented facts from the contracts we make about the scale of the contract. I told you there are no estimates, and you can see in the government's motives there are no such estimates in violation of the law. I told you, if it's true that we have such a fiscal reserve, it's weird why we're running for help from international financial institutions. Isn't that right? So answer my specific questions, and do not deal with past periods that you interpret differently. Why are we moving towards 20 billion debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u23	Let me remind you, Mr. Gechev, that the People's Representative Ivanov gave you a reply and did not answer any questions. Here you are, Mr. Slavov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! We're about to have a serious debate. I hope he'll be useful. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Management Board of the Deposit Guarantee Fund are present, because when we commented on these two ratifications in the Legal Commission, there was no representative of the Fund. This was quite unpleasant, as many questions remained unanswered, so I will put them now. I'd be happy if Mr. Milenkov would take the floor at some point and answer. But, colleagues, first of all, I really think I'm gonna start from there. Why are we even having this conversation and would it be in practice if the CCB hadn't gone bankrupt? The answer is obvious, and it is also obvious in whose mandate CTB is bankrupt. It seems to me that BSP colleagues here can be a little more measured and a little more responsible in their speeches because they bear the great responsibility for everything that happened after this bankruptcy. These two ratifications raise a few serious questions, such as the first question that each person asks himself when he has to give credit to someone close to him in this case, as we have heard, it is a question of being even a major debtor, which means that in practice the amount can be claimed equally by him, and the debtor does not need to be asked first by the debtor and only then by him as a guarantor. When such a serious responsibility is taken, it is normal for a person to ask: "After I have vouched for you, will you faithfully comply with this contract, will you pay the due contributions, will you have the resources to do so, will you have the funds in the years ahead, so that you can return them and not harm us, respectively the state as a guarantor? " - Answers to these questions are usually given through regular accountability and control, which in this case I do not see how we will exercise in relation to the Deposit Guarantee Fund. I'll tell you why right now. I have brought a document which has been presented on one of the cases we are conducting against the Fund at the Administrative Court. In the document issued by the Deposit Guarantee Fund signed by the Chair's proxy, it is very clear that the Fund is not a state body and is not subject to the Public Information Access Act. And I ask, colleagues: in this situation, how will we get information about what these funds are spent on? We have repeatedly asked through parliamentary control through the Minister of Finance. He usually sends us the answers in fullness, which says, whether by the CCB syndicates or by the Fund, that this information was confidential, which is why it is obviously not possible to have complete control and accountability, so that as MPs we can be sure that we guarantee the state interest. If the Fund were indeed a state body, there would be nothing unusual for me to guarantee this loan to a state body or a state undertaking for public interest purposes. Here, again, I say here in black and white it is written that the Fund is not a state authority. They wrote it themselves, and they think it's not a government body and they don't owe any information. According to the Access to Information Act, they're not responding either. More than once, we have asked them about the investigative company "Alix Partners" and the contract that was concluded with this company, which, as you recall, with amendments to the Law together, we decided to become public and so on. So far, we have repeatedly asked them about this contract, and this is what they have said to us:........................................................................................................................ between........................................................................................................................... I very much hope that we do not get such an answer here at some point, asking for these two loans................. if they are a private legal relationship again. Well, they obviously didn't to me. There are a lot of questions, and I hope Mr. Milenkov will take the attitude and say categorically that such practices will not be allowed. It is about serious amounts by which the state undertakes unconditionally. Another argument that's very disturbing. As you recall, when we unscrambled the investigation into the Alix partners, we made a decision to make it clear in relation to these penalties what exactly is written in the contract in question with this investigative company. What have we subsequently learned from the Deposit Guarantee Fund through a parliamentary question addressed through the Minister of Finance? We understand that these penalties, which have signed the syndics, were consistent with the form in which they were signed, with the Deposit Guarantee Fund. So what the investigative company insisted on is that if a third party as a result of this investigation and its public disclosure decides to sue the investigative company, then the mass of bankruptcy is in line, respectively CTB. And you know who is the biggest creditor of KTB and we cannot be indifferent if such guarantees are taken over by the investigating company if such commitments are made for defaults, and as the Syndicates have written here, this was agreed with the Deposit Guarantee Fund. But we don't know about it, and we understand it now. I will conclude by saying that, given these problematic issues, we have tabled proposals for amendments to the Deposit Guarantee Act in banks. By the way, Mr. Gechev, that's the name of the Law, not the Law on guaranteeing minimum protected deposits or something like that. It's called the Bank Deposit Guarantee Act. We have proposed amendments to this Law with regard to the Deposit Guarantee Fund, but first to become a public legal organisation and to owe answers to the Public Information Access Act; and secondly, to become a reporting body and to be able to receive answers on such important issues. I hope to see this Bill soon, even as soon as possible, and support it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u25	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! We at the ABB categorically state our position that we will not support the conclusion of an Agreement on a new loan of 300 million. EUR, as we are of the opinion that the entire procedure for the bankruptcy of KTB is an example of what should not happen in the Bulgarian banking system. Moreover, there is no such example in Europe. Although the larger CCB banks were experiencing serious financial difficulties, such procedures had not been reached at a previous stage. In addition to serious deficiencies in the supervision and audit of CCB, in the European Union banks with financial difficulties are being reorganized, while in Bulgaria the CCB was closed and battles are still being fought for the ownership of the appetizing assets that were recently owned by it. Nearly two years after the bankruptcy of KTB today it is clear that instead of protecting the funds of the depositors and creditors, a significant part of the bank's assets are being redistributed to new owners while the account is being paid by the Bulgarian taxpayers. We have repeatedly made proposals that could change the situation and protect the funds of the state and taxpayers. One of them was in the direction of introducing a new, quality and reliable body of BNB, and it was built by proven specialists. Instead, the face of the previous Board of Directors was preserved. ABB insisted on attracting a European banking body to analyse all banking oversight procedures and on the activities of the Financial Supervision Commission, the auditors and other bodies that allowed the bank to continue its vicious practices and did not react preventively. Instead, the BNB hired a company to explain the obvious "bad banking practices" in KTB, and undertook some small personnel and regulation changes, which allowed the bankruptcy of KTB. So there is no guarantee that history will never happen again. For all these reasons, the ABB will not support the taking of new loans related to CCB until the parties in parliament agree to establish guarantees that public interest and public funds will have priority over private and corporate interests. In conclusion, I take the case to remind that ABB insists that Bulgaria introduces a tax on the investment operations of banks, as nine of the largest countries in the European Union are preparing to do so. Thus, banks will be more sympathetic to the cost of poor governance and will not transfer it to people who pay their taxes and who do not benefit from huge bank profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I won't. For speech there is the word of the people representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u28	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mr. Minister! Behind the scenes of this loan of 1 billion. 200 million. lv. Or 300 plus 300 million. Euros. There is a very disturbing fact that in fact the cabinet wants to urgently fill holes in the budget, and this is covered by the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks. Honourable colleagues from GERB party and from the ruling right-wing majority after taking over the colossal debt of 16 billion. lv. For three years and the state entered a terrible debt spiral, now you want to take on a new debt of 1.2 billion. BGN, and which is the most disturbing of all, you consider this to be normal, convincing us otherwise. When Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski took on a debt of 1 billion two years ago. BGN, then the opposition raised a howl to heaven that the state would fail. What is your financial logic? When a debt of 1 billion is committed. lv. from the left government, this is a national disaster, and when debt is assumed from the right, from the right coalition government, the first 16 billion. BGN, now 1.2 billion. BGN, this means that the state blooms and flourishes. If we look at the actions of the Finance Ministry and Dear Finance Minister Goranov after this 16 billion loan was withdrawn last year. BGN, we'll see that the government takes a new loan every two or three months. Therefore, I propose that this loan be voted on by name. [[sighs]] to let the Bulgarian voters know who voted how to take this loan. Dear colleagues, the new loan is officially drawn for the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks, but unofficially it is known and this Mr. Gechev said it very well that this loan will go into the finance minister's portfolio. Let's take the following account. First, you took a loan of 16 billion. BGN, which is believed to have already withdrawn 10 billion, and today you want a new loan of a billion and 200 million leva, which through the Guarantee Fund will go directly into the finance minister's portfolio to pay off and give low interest loans to municipalities that are managed by GERB. Moreover, it is clear that the payment maturity of both loans, Mr. Minister, that of 16 billion and today, are in 2022, i.e. they will not be paid by the current government, I hope, but by subsequent governments. Yesterday Prime Minister Borisov was at the spring ball of the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria and this gives me an excuse to ask: should the Prime Minister not so stimulate the Bulgarian economy, both state and private, that it generate the funds needed for our economy and financial system and not the state constantly sink with new loans and billions. When Mr. Finance Minister answers these questions, let me not forget that interest payments on government debt are doubled and next year the state will receive a very serious blow, as an additional 1 billion will have to be provided. lv. Mr. Rumen Gechev said it, but I will mention it once again, because it is very important today with a loan we are filling out the Deposit Guarantee Fund in banks instead of the commercial banks themselves to provide a loan from the profits they have, a profit that last year is 900 million. lv. The guarantee fund is not a government institution, it is in the banking system. Since we are talking about money, about withdrawing a new loan, about the country's public debt, I would like to quote what the anatomical Plamen Oresharski said yesterday about Boyko Borisov's application. Mr. Borisov said that the debt at the moment is lower than it was at Oresharski. A reference to the Ministry of Finance shows the following: the public debt as of 30 April 2016 is 13 billion. 300 million. EUR and on 31 July 2014, this debt is 9 billion. 400 million. Euros. Prime Minister Borisov also said he has received, I quote, a fiscal reserve of Oresharski 3 billion and something. A report on the same site, as Mr Oresharski noted very successfully, shows that by 31 July 2014, the fiscal reserve amounted to almost 9 billion. BGN, that is, three times more. Dear colleagues of the ruling majority, how will I believe you today to be telling the truth when you are defending the need to assume a new debt for the Deposit Guarantee Fund in banks, after the prime minister himself is exporting completely false information about both the debt and the fiscal reserve. Let's remember who drained the Health Insurance Fund, which finance minister wasn't with Simeon Djankov, and didn't return that money? I think it was a billion and a half. Let's not forget, since there were lines to Mr. Gechev, which government filled with money from state companies the CCB's cash register? Who was that government? This was the government of GERB Party. In the management of Party GERB were filled the CCB vaults with money from state companies, so I repeat my proposal: when voting on this loan to be voted on by name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. At the risk of asking for a procedure in the manner of conduct, I can't help but be tempted to say that the debts withdrawn, as Mr. Enchev called them, are not worth 16 billion, and each year a specific number is defined in the State Budget Act. If we can even use the expression "outturned debts." For the next speech there is the popular representative Nikolay Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! I'm gonna start off a little different. We've turned the debate around a little bit. Maybe we should have listened to the fund manager who came here first. In any case, there is not enough information in the two committees about this.. colleagues come out and plead that there is no more information. Perhaps it was appropriate to obtain this information in advance, then lead the debate, not vice versa, including with the Minister of Finance. Separately, I cannot understand how we will ask the Minister of Finance for the management of the Fund because there have been such calls. We can ask him about the guarantee that the state will take, since things are a little different. I will not talk about a new loan because it is practically not a new loan, but can become a new loan at a future time depending on how it is written and if we read correctly what is given to us. I would like more and perhaps do so as a procedure, Mr. President, if the Fund Manager and the Minister of Finance are willing to take part, to give us more information, and colleagues who will then participate in the debate will have more information. On the other hand, I would say that we will not support it, as I abstained in the Commission, in the same way we will most likely abstain with the following consideration. For us there is a situation of risk here. It is as follows: the State has given some money to the Fund to be able to pay out deposits in CCB and at the moment, through the guarantee for these two loans, it may recover part of that amount. It turns out that in one case you gave her and then you guaranteed her the same amount you'd get yourself. It is for this reason that an essential form of risk arises for us, not to mention that if the statements about large financial reserves that exist in our system are correct, such payments would not be possible. Because there are several ifs, it's one possible ifs. If you take 600 million in these two cases. Euros, like, understand that one amount is not 100% to be taken. One agreement that we will look at second as a point is that of the overdraft, so to call it so that it is clear to most people, or it becomes possible only if applications are sent, which are requested to withdraw this amount. That is, it is left at the disposal of the Fund and if the Fund needs it, use it and declare it. But since we haven't heard what the Fund would spend this money on, both of us, and the others, we're only talking here with assumptions, and I'm going to continue with these assumptions. My main assumption is that much of this money will be returned to the state. There's a risk here. If the Prime Minister comes out and says that we have 11.5 billion BGN as reserves, which is also a form of debate, but if we have such reserves, why should we chase 300 million. EUR or approximately 600 million. leva? Why would we expect the Fund to pay us back? Why are we rushing so many reins on the horse and on this guy who's on the run, given that in 2014 we took a bridge loan to pay off, then we reorganized the loan. In any case, the commercial banks pay the Fund, with the Fund already returning the money to the state and to the budget. It is for this reason that we will not support it. Once again, I will call on the Finance Minister Mr. Goranov and the Fund Manager to come out and tell us, as.. you understand, these are two different institutions. To blend them is not right, given that it is not understood how the Fund is managed. The fund was created to protect the money of the deposits, which is about 80% of the money in the banking system. That's the idea of the fund. For this reason, this was the most appropriate way: first to say one, then to the other, and then to debate. Right now we're talking about unborn Petko, and then what's really going to happen is different. We don't really know what the interest is to be paid, what the Fund intends to do, because this is the main one. Understand that the state is a guarantor and it eventually has no different obligations unless the Fund at a wonderful time decides to stop paying, which I think will not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u31	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? I won't. For speech there is the popular representative Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u32	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Fact is the motion to vote on another 600 million. EUR to serve the Deposit Guarantee Fund. I also have questions to answer from the Minister of Finance, and for the most part, even they are to the President of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. I will not enter into an analysis of the Guarantee Agreement itself and this has been largely commented on. I will remind you of the requirements of the Deposit Guarantee Act, and I will expect an answer, especially from its chairman: how are the obligations under Law fulfilled in order to establish whether this loan is necessary and, if there is, what real amount does it have to be? What are the sources for fundraising at the Fund? These are the annual extraordinary contributions of the banks, the income from the investments of the funds raised in the Fund, you might say: "Because it had to pay off, there is no way at the moment to invest funds. In order not to use this more complex for some of the people legal term, the question people ask themselves is: what kind of funds were collected by the Fund after it entered into the bankruptcy rights of KTB? I expect you to tell us, before the debate is completed and the vote is held, as a result of the efforts, how many million have been returned to the bank to know how many of them can fill the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Let's go. By 1 May of the current year, the Fund shall determine the annual premium contribution for each bank, taking into account the risk profile and the amount of bank deposits guaranteed for the previous one. You should have a list whose gradation is guided by these two criteria: the risks of the bank and the volume of the funds attracted. Since we are in early June, it is very interesting that you signed the agreement, Mr. Minister, before these deadlines expired, and we should know by 31 May of this year how much funds the Deposit Guarantee Fund has raised from commercial banks, how they have been determined, by what criteria and whether all banks have been paid according to the law? It turns out that we instead carry the main burden on commercial banks to fill the Fund, as the Law requires, that the State, instead of acting as the last guarantor, is a debtor, according to the change made in 2015, when other sources such as loans, including aid, and so on, be attracted to fill in the funds for the Fund. This last opportunity wasn't at the adoption of the Law. It was the result of the bankruptcy of KTB and should be seen not just as one of the next, but as the last opportunity to fill in the funds to enable the Fund to function. Another requirement of the Law is that if the funds available in the Fund are not sufficient, this is undoubtedly the case for covering its obligations when the deposits have become unavailable, by decision of the Governing Council of the Fund, the banks shall transfer extraordinary premium contributions up to 0,5 percent of the guaranteed deposits in one calendar year. Was this action carried out? Did the Fund take advantage? Did you apply this obligation to the Law to know how much money has been transferred and in view of this exceptional measure in the available funds of the Fund? I'm not even talking about another possibility that's already optional. The Fund with the explicit consent of the BNB may also require greater contributions in exceptional circumstances. Here it has already been commented that the reported profits of commercial banks last year reach almost 900 million. lv. Now I will not raise the other topic: what is the ratio in these profits between interest income and tax revenue of commercial banks? The main function of commercial banks is to profit from interest because they trade in loans. Credit activity in Bulgaria is low. You remember that as a result of initiatives in parliament, which we were the initiators of, the levels of interest payments were reduced, that is, the pressure on businesses and citizens was reduced, but the banks began to compensate for this by increasing the fees. If we follow in the last quarters the growth of revenue from fees, we will see that banks are beginning to distort the credit market, instead of focusing mainly on how to operate with loans, they are actually dealing with how to attract fees, that is, through some administrative operations. This is another topic that I think we will have to discuss with the Finance Minister. It is also in the spirit of European regulations that have been discussed and adopted lately.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u33	Would you like a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u34	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman, let's extend the time. It has been said that Bulgaria's public debt exceeds 13 billion. These are record levels for the entire history of Bulgaria. Moreover, the private debt is not calculated here when the economy is mostly private. What if we sum up these values? Indeed, the situation can be described as close to critical. Here, perhaps we exchange our roles with Mr. Gechev, he speaks in the case of Bulgarian banks, which legally has no particular arguments, because we have few Bulgarian banks. I speak Bulgarian banks, not just as legal entities registered under Bulgarian law, but Bulgarian banks whose main shareholders are Bulgarian and which have a significant market share. By both indicators our system is mostly non-Bulgarian. It is not a question of whether we will support any Bulgarian banks, it is about the operation of the market here I already agree with these additional loans from the Fund to move the funds of the commercial banks operating on the Bulgarian market. This is a question for both industry and the financial sector itself. That concludes my questions. I think that they themselves are serious enough as an argument not to support these agreements, because I argue that much of the funds needed in the Fund could have been attracted to a much more active policy by the Fund, aimed at commercial banks, in fulfilling all that the Deposit Guarantee Act provides. Finishing my speech, once again I look forward to the answers, because they matter not only on the occasion of another increase in government debt, but because it is important to see whether in Bulgaria the institutions that are created are working according to purpose or whether the state is always the bad state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u36	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Stoilov, I hope the Minister of Finance has listened carefully to your speech, because, in my impression, there was not much hearing in the Chamber. I would like to make a reply to you that at the end, when you clarified your attitude towards the statement of Mr. Gechev, you affected the structure of capital in the Bulgarian banks, and the point of what Rumen Gechev was talking about is that you can borrow from those, calling them Bulgarian banks to move their activities, but you missed this very moment about the structure of capital in the Bulgarian banks when you analyzed the question why the legally given opportunities of the Fund to raise funds from this source are not realized. Here the more important question is: isn't this particular structure of the capital of the Bulgarian banks being served instead of being obliged to fulfil their obligations to the Fund, and this is at the expense of the Bulgarian taxpayer? You have well touched one aspect, but the other, you may have accidentally missed it, the room is once again indistinct, but I hope Mr. Finance Minister is closely following this very meaningful debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Bozhinov, you have correctly noticed that the Bulgarian Parliament is starting to withdraw from its two main functions. Parliaments have emerged to resolve political and financial issues to represent citizens and to discuss the raising and spending of state funds. So let us hope that the Bulgarian Parliament with its activities does not give any more arguments to those who say that there is no need for such a large parliament, or that there is little need for parliament, if it is just a centre where the decisions already taken by the government are approved. I thank you because there is reason in the supplement you have made. I even realize that during this year, when the stress tests of the Bulgarian banks are being carried out, they should be able to meet the requirements and that is why they are not subject to great requirements regarding the filling of funds in the Fund. But this provokes me to ask myself another question, I hope his answer is negative, that the purpose of one of the objectives of this loan or of those guarantees that the government gives is not yet to secure funds, if one of these banks does not have the necessary adequacy, it will again fall several hundred million to say that in our government never fail banks and that the state, if necessary, will take out to give the banks instead of giving the shareholders, or they will pay off properly with their investors. These are the ones that I didn't put in place so that we wouldn't in any way waver at stability and trust in the banking system, but they are issues which, anyway, stand, and that is why I expect the answers here to the competent people who have received the government's obligations to manage the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Of course, the Ministry of Finance and the Government cannot be in an interaction and both to work in the same direction and also to make the requirements corresponding to state interests. Again, there is a certain consistency and the main commitments to maintaining the Deposit Guarantee Fund are the commercial banks, according to the Law and not the State. And here, colleagues who spoke from the Reformation Bloc, that the Fund should acquire state status, perhaps there is a reason, but I urge them to speak a little bolder on these issues, because they do, to a certain extent, disagree with their concept of economy and finance and should not so timidly place them and require appropriate action by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the line you made some time ago during the debate, my colleague Ivanov, I would like to note that the political history of BSP and its political helplessness in today's debate do not mean that there is no problem in making this decision. More than obvious, there's a problem. First of all, the contradiction in the motives of whether it is about completing the Fund's reserve to strengthen the Fund, or whether it is about early repayment of the money that the Fund owes to the state budget. Either way, there's a big problem. If this is about the early return of the money that the Fund owes to the budget, and I note that this is the public line of protection of the decision that is being offered to us today, so it is explained to the Bulgarian citizens, there is something very vague. In essence, the budget, i.e. each individual taxpayer takes credit to pay the one who owes it, so that it can pay it off in advance. I mean, he's burying himself with interest in the name of not paying interest. The only possible explanation for such a solution is to cover a current budget deficit this year, after which someone will explain to us that he has raised more money than smuggling after collecting it from the Bulgarian taxpayers. And it wouldn't be the first time, by the way, if it did. However, if the fisk, i.e. every Bulgarian taxpayer borrows to strengthen the Fund's budget to capitalise the Fund, other issues arise. First of all, the question of moral hazard. Taxpayers take a loan, an extraordinary loan, in the name of supporting a private structure with limited government control, which is called to cover obligations of other private structures, that is to say banks. The Bulgarian taxpayer finances the commercial banks for no apparent reason for this thing. In any case, we have no answer to these questions. Is it one thing, is it the other.... in both cases, why is it necessary? However, in any case, this decision raises serious concerns. Really, what could be behind him? Either there is a failure in budgetary policy for this year, or there is a failure of the Fund in its activities of collecting the obligations to CCB, which is why it needs extraordinary power supply, extraordinary capitalization of its budget, or is an immediate threat to the need for the Fund to cover further obligations of the type of CCB, or to participate in restructuring in connection with stress tests. In every one of these cases, and I'm ending it, actually one thing is certain. It is certain that there is a failure of the majority of GERB, which permanently stood behind the policy of Minister Goranov, very often without the support of the Reformation Bloc, during all 2015, as at the moment a rude political intervention in the management of the Fund was carried out, and at the moment when the old governors of BNB were re-elected and the possibility of BNB exercising quality control was compromised. So it must be clear here whose political responsibility is both for today's parliament's decision and the possible reasons for this decision that we do not know. In this regard, I am not surprised at the absence of the DPS from the Chamber, they have found the next way to facilitate this decision. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u41	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. The word is from Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov. Before that, allow me to inform you that we have come into contact with Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova. She's at the scene. We have the assurance that tomorrow morning he will come and provide you with the requested information.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It was strange for me how, in this debate, the left and right were able to meet in a particularly convincing way. Despite this strange collaboration, it is still appropriate to present the reasons that were not commented with the exact arguments today from the stands. Undoubtedly, without such guarantee agreements, we can pass, but then we have to answer the question whether one of the main guarantees for the stability of the financial system and the confidence in it, namely the possibility to unconditionally pay guaranteed deposits to Bulgarian citizens in the amount defined as minimum by law, to be guaranteed or not. There are 46 billion guaranteed deposits in the Bulgarian banking system. This is not the total amount of deposits, this is the amount of the guaranteed part of the mass of all deposits. Against these 46 billion, as a result of the bankruptcy of Corporate Commercial Bank, there are currently less than half a billion levs in the Deposit Guarantee Fund. The banks have fulfilled their commitment by transferring 150 million of this, but, first, if I have to repeat it several times, in this case we are not talking about a state loan, in this case we are talking about a state guarantee for a legal person performing public functions under law. This legal entity forms its proceeds...... in this case, mainly from the business of the banks. Exemptions have been granted to the Law, where the government or the State responsible for maintaining stability may lend a loan to guaranteeing the deposits of the employees something that we had to do in 2014. The idea of such a Guarantee Agreement I repeat again, a Guarantee Agreement, not a debt commitment, is to enable the Fund to finance itself at rather low price levels, thus reducing indirect pressure on the banking system that will serve this debt. To the question of what are the risks to the state, I would consider them negligible small because not collecting or failing to fill the Fund or failing to fulfil the Fund's obligations means that the financial system, the banking system, is not functioning. With such an apocalyptic strategy, if God forbid it happens, the last topic will be where the role of the state is. Naturally, this is the case in Europe, and in the world, unfortunately, when the financial system fails, again as part of the infrastructure of society is supported by this same society in one form or another. The examples, unfortunately, are numerous. Such a Guarantee Decision is not intended to respond immediately to one of the two alternatives which were correctly, albeit with another subtext, cited by colleagues from the CBI. It is a matter of strategy and there is no need for the state to put such pressure on whether, if the Deposit Guarantee Fund attracts this resource, it will use the loan granted to it and increase its reserves or leave that amount in the Fund and it will serve as an additional buffer if the Fund has to pay guaranteed deposits. But agree that there is no way we can have 46 billion guaranteed deposits and not have a toolbox to serve them, not have a working mechanism. If we had working mechanisms in the legislation, maybe we wouldn't be having this argument now when KTB went bankrupt. If we were ready from a liquidity point of view, we would not be having these debates at the end of 2014 for urgent, emergency and perhaps not at the best price to provide funding for the state in order to meet its commitments. For me, it is a good solution, with a minimum risk to the State as a direct debtor, to enable the Deposit Guarantee Fund as a public-law entity created to serve and ensure the stability of the financial system, guaranteeing, in turn, up to 100 thousand. EUR of every Bulgarian depositor in the banking system, to strengthen the Fund's ability to work. I do not agree to seek direct correlation between the fiscal reserve and the Fund. It is no accident that the Fund was created and it forms its proceeds on the basis of deposits in commercial banks and is cut off, unbound, separated, unrelated to any methodology with a fissure. However, are we deluded that if the Fund does not have its own resources, the state should intervene? We saw what happened in 2014 and I see no alternative to the decision we made then. The guarantee agreements that we have proposed to be supported by the government are at interest which, in my opinion, the Bulgarian market, even the Bulgarian commercial banks could not currently provide, as we are talking about an allowance over the Jurybor of one and less than 1%. As of May 31st, Eurybor's quote was 0.163 basis points, slightly above one tenth of the percent. We are talking about about about 1 and a little more than 1% cost of the resource, which, I think, is unfortunately impossible for our banking market. Nevertheless, I continue to argue that speculation that new government debt is currently being assumed, even though it is a convenient and popular thesis of BSP colleagues who need not intellectuality, not to be offended, but ideologically strengthening, so they also take selfies in strange places. [[Applause from GERB]] ... Let's not turn this into a political debate. [[Reply by MP Rumen Gechev.]] In this case, we are not talking about government debt. Arithmetic suggestion that deals with a very strange economic apparatus, highly unlike a professor of economics in the order of revenue, receipts, expenditures and financing operations, I suppose, using them wrongly only to boost political speculation, not because it does not distinguish them. In this case, however, we are talking about a Guarantee Agreement which will help the capital and ability of the Deposit Guarantee Fund to fulfil its main function. Otherwise, if he has to perform his main function, he will not have the opportunity to do so. Then it will be realized by the negative from my point of view the scenario of the..... to address the government. Therefore, for me, this preventive action, which will cost the Bulgarian taxpayer absolutely nothing, I stress, absolutely nothing, is a good solution that will enable the financial system to be strengthened. It has been heard that we have no security and no guarantees in the way it operates. Banking oversight has failed. That is why the asset quality assessment is currently under way and will soon be completed, and then stress tests based on the revised balance sheets of commercial banks. At the same time, an International Monetary Fund and the World Bank mission for assessing the financial system and its functioning, known as EFSAP, has also started. All the actions necessary to ensure pre-crisis confidence in the financial system have been taken and can hardly be challenged. As far as speculation is concerned, how much debt is poetic, this is statistically easily established. And why we rushed to 2016 to take on this debt is easy to understand. You know that in addition to assessing the quality of assets and potential turmoil within the European market relating to it, I will not hide it, with ambiguity about Britain's position to remain or not in the European Union. In case there are volatility in the market related to our southern neighbour, as it was last summer, or possible Brexit, the state of the markets in the short term will be such that it will be very difficult to believe that a small and open economy such as the Bulgarian economy will be able to easily and at a good price to finance. I am convinced that the Bulgarian banking business has read its lessons from the past and the challenge before it will come out without damage to the Bulgarian financial system and the Bulgarian budget. However, I certainly prefer to be prepared with both fiscal buffers and buffers for the rest of the system indirectly linked to the budget so that we can go through the tests without shocks. Apropo as a replica, but because they quoted dilapidated and insufficient levels of government debt, I would just like to remind you that after Mr. Gechev's last participation in the executive power, the public debt was 97 per cent of the gross domestic product. We're far from that number now, colleagues. I propose that we support the proposed ratification. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u43	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Goranov, you are reporting misleading facts, as the government in which I participated paid 2 billion. 250 million. US dollar foreign debt after the moratorium from 1990 to 1995
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u45	Government debt.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u46	And you've just been trying with strange arguments to say that 20 billion. lv. or 15 billion. The dollar you make in three years. This is outrageous! Where do you compare yourself? We paid $2 billion. 200 million. The dollar, and you're putting us in 15 billion. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] So look at the numbers and then speak up. In addition, dear Mr. Goranov, the internal debt that was withdrawn was with the arguments that you pointed out - 17 robbed Bulgarian banks from 1990 to 1996 - covered the deposits of the citizens at 100% and of the companies at 50%. [[(Strong noise and shouting from GERB:]] These are the decisions of the Council of Ministers and Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u47	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u48	So the same motives paid off people's money. Be punctual and do not abuse. [[Relations of MPs from GERB and from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u49	I heard that the finance minister said that the amount of debt at your time was 97%. That was the number I heard. And you're going the other way. [[BSP LB.]] I'm sorry! The number that the finance minister said was 97% of the debt amount during your government. That's it. [[BSP LB.]] Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Ermenkov. That's what you want, isn't it? [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, you know why I'm coming out here and why I'm taking a procedure in the manner of conduct. Because you allow yourself, sitting in the chair, to make speeches and comments on statements by lawmakers who do not refer to you, but to Minister Goranov. He has the opportunity to come out at any time and respond to the Rules of the National Assembly if he felt affected by what Mr. Gechev said. He didn't mention you at all, and you have no reason to comment on the statements of the MPs, acting as the minister's lawyer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u51	I'm sorry! I apologize, but my sense of justice and respect for the truth didn't last. [[Arrival in GERB.]] I'm sorry, I'm really sorry. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]] I'm closing the debate. I'm voting...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u52	Isn't there a statement from the President of the Fund? [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u53	I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Project for strengthening guarantee...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u54	There was a motion on how to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u55	Please be quiet in the hall. [[Noise and lines.]] You're right. I'm sorry. There was a proposal on how to vote, made by the National Representative Velizar Enchev, according to art. 63, para. 2 The obvious vote shall be taken in accordance with paragraph 2. 3 with rising from place when calling in alphabetical order and replying with........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I'm reading to you. 64, since you are very keen on me to respond to this proposal and it reads: 63, para. 2, p. 3 which I have just read to you and which has been proposed can be done by one tenth of all MPs and by one parliamentary group. Neither of the two hypotheses was performed by the MP Velizar Enchev. I put to the vote a bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u56	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u57	Enough with the procedures!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u58	...of the guarantee agreement... [[Noise and lines.]] After the vote. We're in voting mode. ... Project to strengthen the guarantee of deposits between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-19... [[Noise and lines.]] Please be quiet in the hall! [[Noise and lines.]] ...sent by the Council of Ministers on 18 May 2016. Please vote. Vote 151 MPs: 100, against 38, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. The bill was passed in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u59	Procedure! Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u60	First, show the results in groups. How many procedures are there? Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova, after the results of the vote are passed. You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since we did not hear any concrete proposals during the debate to change ratification other than speculatively exported conveniently, so served for political speaking facts, I propose according to art. 77, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure to put to the second vote the newly voted Ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u62	Yeah, it's an international contract, and it's hard to change. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Diana Yordanova. They voted 145 MPs: 102, against 36, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Please submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u63	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Project to Strengthen Deposit Guarantee) between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development A single member. Ratifying the Guarantee Agreement (Project to Strengthen Deposit Guarantee) between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, concluded by Exchange of Letters on 1 April In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u64	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u65	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't think we need to put forward any further arguments on our position. The objections on the part of the GERB Parliamentary Group are the least relevant, since they did not find it necessary to point out any arguments beyond those which the Minister of Finance presented at least briefly. But, Mr President, I recall that in the course of the first reading debate, I have addressed at least three or four specific questions to the Chair of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Therefore, call on him here to answer, because all these questions concern the application of the Law and the institution which he heads up. It is true that his position is mainly due to the government, but I think that Parliament is the place where we need to hear the answers to these questions and ultimately find out how much of these funds would really go into strengthening the Deposit Guarantee Fund or this is just some additional step to transfer money to the government. But there are obligations under the Deposit Guarantee Act. If I must, I will repeat the questions not in front of the House, so that we do not waste time to hear how the Fund has fulfilled its obligations by law. Otherwise, we choose dozens of institutions without knowing what their real activity is. Thank you, I expect that answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I won't. There is another statement from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u67	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Finance Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I have listened carefully to the debate and I would like to introduce you to another point of view. There is no doubt, we all know and we must not forget when the bankruptcy of KTB happened and that this was during the mandate of Oresharski and BSP. That's clear! No one has the right to forget it, no one has the right to speculate. Today, however, another much more important issue arises, and it is the following. Taking loans is always the easier solution. The more difficult solution is this Debt Guarantee Fund to be capitalised through recovery of some of the capitalised by CCB. Are the necessary efforts made there? Have we, as parliament, taken all measures? Rather, the authorities that have a direct involvement in the return of this money, have they done their job? For me, this is the key issue, because borrowing is always the easy solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u68	We're at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u69	Yeah, we're at second reading, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u70	And you're talking to a single member?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u71	That's right, according to the only member that is the loan, Mr. Lazarov. And I ask: by borrowing, is the other alternative to collecting claims happening? If there is a good collection of the drained, then, Mr. Lazarov, because you made a line, you won't have to borrow. That point of view is more important to me. I would like to ask all of you: has it been clarified so far how so many collaterals have been released in CCB? Who gave their consent? How did this happen?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u72	Give me the text in particular, we're at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u73	Please don't contradict me, colleagues, because these are important questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u74	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u75	How come so many collaterals were released, how were so many intercepts allowed? To this day, we don't know who gave his consent to this happening. Due to the release of collateral, the potential to recover funds back at the bankruptcy table has been greatly reduced. That is why, with colleagues yesterday, we asked for a hearing, including the prosecution, not actually a hearing, but a voluntary report that the Prosecutor General will present to the Bulgarian Parliament. Furthermore, it is important now from the Deposit Guarantee Fund Mr. Milenkov to come to the stand and say what are the measures for the collection of the money from KTB, for the collection of the drained money. And more importantly: to say how much he has collected so far, albeit in the short term, and how much he expects to collect and return. Also to say why there is no international investigation firm to participate in the recovery of the money back at the bankruptcy table, and there is only one report from this international investigation firm? Does this therefore mean that the Fund believes that they will manage and return more money than any international investigation firm? If so, to make such a commitment here in Parliament so that we can then trace how much money they have returned to the bankruptcy table the Syndicates and to the Fund, as a body that has an essential role in the work of the Syndicates, and that we can appreciate what has been achieved. Once again, colleagues: the less money comes back from what is drained at KTB, the more credits will be taken from here on out. I appeal to Mr. Milenkov, whom I see for the first time in Parliament, to answer these questions, to tell us what measures have been taken to return the drained money from the Corporate Commercial Bank and to make specific commitments for results. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gechev. Honourable Members, allow me to remind you that the only member is: I'm sorry to have to explain, but a guarantee agreement doesn't mean a loan. This is for the part of the hall that doesn't make a difference. It's not for you, Mr. Gechev. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u77	Thank you. The guarantee agreement is not as much a loan as Beijing is the capital of Vietnam. [[Laughter]] However, the contract says and read to you: the debtor. Let's not speculate! First of all, we're a major debtor. Mr. Glauchev, honourable colleague, other than the loan, I do not know what other interpretation you will make after the World Bank and the European Bank make such an interpretation and we need to sign as a state. [[GERB lines.]] There's no argument here. The Bulgarian government, the Bulgarian taxpayers remain a responsible debtor and the end of the quote. Secondly, in terms of risk, Mr. Goranov, I agree that the risk is low. I didn't say he was big here. However, it is not zero. The future government and the Bulgarian people may have to pay. [[Lowered noise and lines by MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] I'll give you an argument. If the risk were negligible, as you say, then the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Bank do not know anything about finance! Why, then, do they want a 100% guarantee from the Bulgarian Parliament? If that's not the risk, why not sign with the Guarantee Fund and ask the government for a guarantee with signature and stamp, date, EGN, they want the parliament! Because they at Harvard and Columbia University thought there was a risk. We claim the same, so this risk is real. Next, to the same arguments, as the two points are exactly the same, I would also like to highlight one more point. Once again, if I must, I will repeat: there are no calculations in the motives. In addition, with two sides of the contract you want to push here 1 billion 200 million. I demand that the colleague who runs the Fund speak. In the Committee on Budget and Finance, where it was 1 billion 200 million, there was no representative of the Fund, there was no representative of BNB who was responsible for the stability of the banking system! Why aren't they at the debate in parliament? We are a parliamentary republic because we are not invited or do not want?! Will the manager of the Fund say, not in the motives, the most important question, honourable Members? Colleague, answer: of this 1 billion 200 million, how many are left in the Fund with you to stabilize? What did you negotiate? How many will return to the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria? We want to return to the Bulgarian taxpayers, not to pay for our own money again! Answer this strategic question, please, and the Minister of Finance what have you agreed on? Do you return one lev to the budget, one lev stays in the Fund and you lie to us? We don't know. We're saying hypotheses. The most likely of them is the money to go into the budget as you have problems: presidential elections are coming, you want to spend. We, as opposition, do not want to allow this mechanism. Tell me how much the money is! You don't say. Colleagues, you can't ask parliament to vote with some ideological combinations and spells of 1 billion 200 million! Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Minister, in a municipality for an order of 100,000. lv. a competition and an auction is announced! Here for 1 billion 200 million you don't say what the interest is. So you're saying that the interest is now low, it was 0.1 and something. Do you know what the interest rate will be in 2022? Nobody knows! [[Noise and lines from the MP Tsvetomir Mihov and the group of MPs around him.]] You don't know! But, Minister, in your contract, the interest is market. It changes or you make it fixed. [[Extreme noise and lines by the same MPs.]] You don't say what the interest you could get with the commercial banks, you didn't write it anywhere, you mean you want us to sign an empty check. No, the Bulgarian Parliament must not sign an empty check because you have violated all procedures! You have no estimates of the impact of this Agreement on the economy of Bulgaria and its finances. When you write down what the law wants, you'll come back and ask for ratification of the treaties. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gechev, I'm taking a line to be more correct on the procedural side. Actually, I'd like to appeal to you about this. Let's not get ahead of ourselves here. We're not on TV. Our constituents can't hear us. There's no way to manipulate them that this is some kind of regular, simple mortgage or consumer credit. It should be from the scale you allow yourself to comment on, to be aware of the specifics and specifics of this loan. There is no point in repeating the debate we had in the Commission a hundred times. It is clear that the loan is justified and that it guarantees the consequences that have been caused. I'm not going to politicize who or how he challenged them or what the consequences are. However, we must secure the Fund. Second hour listening to all kinds of exercises of any nature. What will the Fund tell you?! Is the fund a trade union, to tell you how the claims are collected at the moment and when are they collected? Why are we manipulating the debate again, knowing what the specifics of the insolvency proceedings are? When will we put the bill?................................. and when will we do the conto root of what we have collected and what we have lost? Enough of this debate! This isn't a neighborhood party meeting. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u80	Any other lines? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u81	Dear Mr. President, honourable Member Kirilov, this is precisely the question the Fund and the government had to give us estimates of how much money will be accumulated with the current contributions of the banks to the Fund until 2022. Isn't that a logical request? At your estimate at this rate, how much money do you expect the Fund to have when the government in 2022 will pay the main part of the principal? That's the question, there's nothing ideological about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u82	The government won't pay anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u83	There's no such thing as an estimate. There are no estimates either, Mr. Kirilov, that money is worth a billion and two hundred million. Five pennies of the budget to be spent by the municipality or the central budget is asked to report where the money is going. We ask by imposing a 100 per cent guarantee on the Bulgarian people as the main debtor, where will the billion and two hundred go? The head of the Guarantee Fund is standing there, not saying anything, we don't know where they're going. The Minister of Finance also tells us some fables, but he doesn't tell us any numbers. Before we have the numbers what the Bulgarian people are obliged to do and how they will pay, we cannot support an empty check. It's so simple and clear. Thank you. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u84	Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not making a statement. I'm making a procedure. I propose that the forthcoming vote at second reading be carried out by roll call. Let us not be anonymous, esteemed rulers, but each stand up worthy and say why and how he supports this loan and how the Bulgarians will ultimately have to return it. Let him defend his position. I think it's dignified, I think it's resonant. I also propose to include the cameras of BNT and BNR in the vote itself in order to see the faces of those who will support this loan. Take responsibility, after all. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u86	Thank you. Mr. Popov, just one clarification: is your second proposal conditional if it is accepted to be roll call?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u87	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u88	I mean, if it's not taken by roll call, we don't have to turn on the cameras.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u89	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u90	Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u91	It's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u92	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, I think there is no point in putting Mr. Popov's proposal to the vote. The vote through the system is roll call and they know that very well. If you were referring by roll call, this is another point in the Rules. But that wasn't the request. The request was to have a roll call vote. Through the system, the vote is roll call. Anyone can then get a printout and a check-up. There is no point in putting this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u94	We assume that Mr. Popov made such an offer. Mr. Finance Minister asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u95	After the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u96	Okay, we vote on the procedure right now. We are voting on the proposal made by MP Philip Popov. Please vote. They voted 119 MPs: for 28, against 71, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Please order in the court! Mr. Mihov, please order in the court! [[Reply from the MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Are there any other statements? I won't. Minister Goranov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u97	Dear Mr. President, I am making a final attempt to present to you what is actually being proposed for a vote, as it seems to have been misunderstood.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u98	We found out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u99	Okay, then I'll say it for the journalists. [[Radio.]] A proposal is voted for ratification of a Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development at one point, in the other, between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The purpose of this Guarantee Agreement is to complete the cycle of coordination of the conclusion of a loan agreement between the Deposit Guarantee Fund, which has a function to pay the guaranteed deposits in banks when they are declared by the Bulgarian National Bank as non-available. The amount of the two guarantees the Bulgarian state will issue is below the limit voted by the Bulgarian National Assembly with the annual State Budget Act for 2016. In this sense, this topic is far from new. This debate, if prof. Gechev wanted to lead him with the same bait, he could have held it at the end of 2015. It is not about sovereign debt, it is about a state guarantee which is activated under certain conditions relating to the risks it covers. The state guarantee, which is currently proposed to be issued, covers the risk that the Bulgarian banking system will not be able to do so by way of an assignment to the Deposit Guarantee Fund to perform its functions to guarantee the secured deposits of the Bulgarian depositors. The main answer we need to give today is: do we want to increase the capacity of the Deposit Guarantee Fund to perform its functions or not? If the answer is no, it is irresponsible for all investors in the Bulgarian financial system and this will undoubtedly undermine the confidence in it. If the answer is other tools are possible, I didn't hear them. I'm going to mention a few more numbers, although they are pointless about the way they are used by the opposition. However, I will tell you that the speculation that 2022 or 2025 the Bulgarian budget will have to return something is false, as we are currently talking about a bank guarantee that has nothing to do with the withdrawal of government debt. Neither 2022 nor 2025, unless the banking system makes contributions to the Deposit Guarantee Fund, the Bulgarian budget will have to invest any resource. It is also far from false that 2022 will mature 16 billion debt. The maturitys in 2022 on the Bulgarian debt are much lower and are consistent with the schedule of taking separate instalments on the different emissions over the years and is very far from the numbers mentioned by the previous speakers. Regarding who will return this money, this money will be returned by the Bulgarian commercial banks through deductions based on the attracted resource in them and the percentage determined by the Deposit Guarantee Fund in accordance with the law. This infrastructure was created to be able outside the budget and outside the direct commitment of the individual taxpayer to create a working mechanism for guaranteeing the deposits of Bulgarian citizens in banks. Any attempt to question it is not in the public interest. The reluctance to support such a guarantee agreement shows a lack of desire to strengthen the financial system of the country, an irresponsible attitude towards the deposits of Bulgarian citizens, something which, by the way, is not news regarding the position of the left. Once again, although I do not expect colleagues on the left to start talking to the real categories, to support the Guarantee Agreement with which the Deposit Guarantee Fund, which is financed by the Bulgarian commercial banks, will be able to absorb debt in order to strengthen the Fund's capacity to meet the payment of guaranteed deposits. If anyone believes that the better solution is for the taxpayer through the fiscal reserve to be the only guarantor, I do not think so. Thank you. I hope you will also support the proposed ratification in the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u100	Thank you, dear Minister. I put to a second vote: THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement (Project to Strengthen Deposit Guarantee) between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development A single member. Ratifying the Guarantee Agreement (Project to Strengthen Deposit Guarantee) between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, concluded by Exchange of Letters on 1 April 2016 140 MPs voted: 99, against 31, abstention 10. The guarantee agreement has been ratified. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year following the entry into force of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. National Representative Diana Yordanova Vice-President of the Budget and Finance Committee. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At its regular meeting held on 2 June 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement for the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2016. The bill was presented by Ms. Karina Karaivanova, Deputy Minister of Finance. With a decision on t. 5 of Protocol No 5 of the meeting on 3 February 2016. The Council of Ministers approved the draft Guarantee Agreement as a basis for negotiation and authorised the Minister of Finance to hold the negotiations and to sign the Guarantee Agreement on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria on condition of subsequent ratification. The decision is in addition to negotiations on a State guarantee of the same size by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The loan agreement provides that the loan funds are to be allocated in instalments, with the amounts being made available in up to three instalments, with a minimum amount of each tranche of 100 million. Euros. The repayment of the loan will be made in four equal annual instalments starting on 17 June 2022 and ending on 17 June 2025. The loan is agreed at standard fee, commitment of the EBRD and reduced half initial fee. The interest rate is chosen by the borrower on the basis of a fixed margin above the applicable 6-month market rate and the borrower may, as an alternative for the whole or part of the loan due, choose to pay fixed interest. The interest and fee commitment shall be payable twice a year and the initial fee shall be financed by the borrower by his means or the bank will withdraw on behalf of the borrower and pay to itself the initial fee of the amount available on the date of entry into force of the Loan Agreement. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 11 votes for the draft, 3 votes against the draft and 1 vote, abstention of the Committee on Budget and Finance, proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for ratification of the loan guarantee agreement for the Bank Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u102	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to the people's representative Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement for the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2016. At its meeting held on 26 May 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement for the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Fezi Bekir Deputy Minister, Mrs. Desislava Lazova and Mrs. Tsvetana Atanasova State experts at the International Financial Institutions and Cooperation Directorate. The bill was presented by Mr. Fezi Bekir, who announced that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development will provide the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund (Fonda) with a loan of 300 million. Euros. The Agreement provides that the loan is to be granted in instalments and the amounts can be drawn up in a maximum of three instalments, with a minimum amount of each tranche of 100 million. Euros. The absorption of the loan aims to fill in the Fund's reserves, leading to greater financial independence and sustainability for the implementation of its deposit guarantee and restructuring obligations for credit institutions. It is envisaged that part of the financial resources of the loan may be used to partially or fully repay the loan granted to the Fund. The agreement provides for the repayment of the principal of the loan to be made in four equal annual instalments, with the first contribution with maturity on 17 June 2022 and the last contribution on 17 June 2025. The loan is agreed at the bank's standard fees and interest rate on the basis of a fixed margin above the applicable 6-month market rate payable twice a year. It is also possible for the borrower to choose a fixed interest rate for the whole or part of the loan due. Condition for the entry into force of the Loan Agreement is the conclusion of a Guarantee Agreement to it and its ratification, the strengthening of the financial and institutional capacity of the Fund for the implementation of its mandate, as well as the conclusion of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Fund and the BNB for the exchange of information on the banking sector. The ratification of the Guarantee Agreement for a loan for the Fund between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 10 votes for a vote, 2 votes against abstention, and 1 vote abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for ratification of the guarantee loan agreement for the Bank Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u104	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. From the importers? I won't. Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. Mr. Tornowaliski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I have reassured the House a little bit and once again we need to comment on the support of these two agreements, which today one has already been supported... According to the reasons for the Bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development by obtaining the loan in the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria, greater financial independence will be achieved, and according to the representatives of these banking institutions, the loans will put the Deposit Guarantee Fund on a solid financial basis and this will have a positive impact on, note. I believe that this would have been the case, and the confidence of the depositors would have really been greater if the Fund's reserves had been filled with the accumulated bankruptcy table by the Corporate Commercial Bank and the trust would have been greater, and the stability of the Fund would have been rather than filled in with loans. Because the large amounts of external debt loans and the large public loans in general put countries depending on their creditors. The same example we have here with the Fund. According to Eurostat Bulgaria is the country with the fastest growing public debt from the countries in the European Union. There is, of course, a contribution to this, and the bankruptcy of a Corporate Commercial Bank, which began to flourish after 2009. In the period until 2014, the CTB bubble was inflated, and as of 2014, at the end of the year, by this Parliament and this majority, the bankruptcy of Corporate Commercial Bank was requested and resolved. As a result, instead of having a rescue plan, debt had to be taken at the end of 2014 in order to be able to cover payments to Bulgarian citizens. And today we have to decide on these guarantee agreements. We said we will vote against because we have not received any answers either for the agreement itself or from the Budget Committee, we have received no specific answers here in this House, including from the representatives of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Questions are not that complicated, but they are very important to make the right decision. It must be clear, after all, what is the Fund's estimate of the funds that will eventually come from the bankruptcy table of KTB. Will there be such funds, what are the expectations, or have we already given up on this? It must be clear how these lending funds will be managed. It is clear in the agreements that these loan funds will serve to early repayment of the loan, as well as to fill in the resources of the Deposit Guarantee Fund. After all, how will these funds be managed, which will remain as resources in the Deposit Guarantee Fund? Because the agreements are in favour, but the support is not free. In the end, the Deposit Guarantee Fund will pay costs, fees and start-ups and interest. It is also unclear, and nowhere was it said, what are the receipts at the Deposit Guarantee Fund from commercial banks? We heard here the minister who said there was about 500 million in the Fund. lv. If an annual average of around 260 million of commercial banks are included in the Fund, this means that there must be more than 2 billion in the Fund at maturity 2022. lv. Next, the Deposit Guarantee Fund was created to cover deposits up to 196 thousand. lv. in case of bankruptcy of one of the Bulgarian banks. But recently this Fund has other obligations, and they are precisely under the Bank Recovery and Restructuring Act. There, when the specially created Fund cannot meet expectations, the Deposit Guarantee Fund must also be included. Is there an estimate of what funds should be set aside, and is this relevant to the assumption of these debts? Last but not least, an answer had to be given as to why two loans were taken on the one from the European Bank, the other from the International Bank, when the conditions under the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development were better, clear? We have an agreement that clearly shows that the fees of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development are 0.25% and the fees at the European Bank are 0.5%. At this large size, the amounts are quite serious. Colleagues, we will not support this agreement either, because in 2014 you have very much promised that you will collect the money from the bankrupt CCB, where they will be returned to the Fund and the Fund will return the money to the budget. Obviously you are not dealing with this and today it is a fact that we are taking on this debt so that the money can be returned to the Bulgarian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Turnovallisky, what did you not understand from Mr. Goranov's statement on the previous point? That there is no loan this, I hope you understand it, that there is a guarantee agreement that I also hope that you understand it; I hope you understand that there is no maturity 2022, there is no maturity 2025, because there are no loans, Mr. Turnovalyski. The guarantee agreement will be used under condition if necessary. So I couldn't figure out what you didn't understand! I hope at least you understand me now in what I said. If you don't, I'm sorry! I don't know what kind of education you have, but don't speak otherwise if you don't understand me. [[Noise, lines and weak applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u108	Please, Mr. Ivanov, do not limit the appearances of the MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u109	I will repeat what Mr. Goranov said: there is no loan There are no maturitys. End of story! Everything else is speculation, pumping muscles of BSP left Bulgaria. Before the congress pumped muscles to replace the chairman, they now pumped the chair's muscles so that he could develop. [[Weak applause from GERB.]] And we're dealing with some of their little narrow party stories. I'm very sorry, but I think we should stop this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u110	There's no stopping it. Each Member of the National Assembly shall have the right to deploy its potential from the parliamentary tribune. Here you go, Mr. Turnovalyski, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u111	Colleague, I don't know what I understand, but you obviously don't understand. What the Minister said, and if you heard the questions I asked, there was not a single answer to them. They were not only put by me, they were asked as questions on the right, they were asked as questions on the left. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] That you are in this room to press the corresponding button that you are told is your problem. It's not mine. In terms of maturity, well, sit down and read! It's recorded when the maturity is. And there's maturity! And if you read the agreement carefully, it says that the entity is a major debtor. Yes, the guarantor and the main debtor!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u112	Where does it say we have a maturity of 2022?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u113	In the agreement. If you've read it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u114	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u115	When you come out here unprepared to talk, and that's all you do, that's all I've ever heard you say...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u116	Where does it say that?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u117	Please don't call from the gym. I'm sorry, Mr. Tarnovalysky. Don't engage in a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u118	In the agreement. I'll give it to you. If you want, I can frame it for you. But, fellow Members, we are voting on a very serious guarantee agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u119	Two.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u120	Secondly, yes, you will accept it, but the responsibility is entirely yours and this is what Bulgarian citizens need to hear, so we speak from this platform. And the fact that you don't get answers but only push the buttons is your problem, and that should be known by the Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any other statements? [[Comments from GERB and BSP LB.]] There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement for the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 May 2016. We vote. They voted 104 MPs: for 75, against 26, abstention 3. The bill was passed in the first vote. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 to put to the second vote the newly adopted Law on ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u123	Is there a reverse opinion, honourable Members? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Diana Yordanova. Voted 103 MPs: 81, against 20, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please, Mrs. Yordanova, present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u124	Thank you. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Guarantee Loan Agreement for the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development A single member. Ratifying the Loan Guarantee Agreement for the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 24 March 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u125	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I close the debates and put to the second vote the Law on ratification of the Guarantee Agreement on Loan for the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development: I'm the only one. It ratifies the Loan Guarantee Agreement for the Deposit Guarantee Fund in Bulgaria between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 24 March 2016. Please vote. Vote 108 MPs: 81, against 23, abstention 4. The bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement has also been adopted in a second vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION ON THE REPRESENTATION AND ASSESSMENT OF THE SITUATION OF ENERGY IN BULGARIA AS OF 31 JANUARY 2015 AND PROJECT FOR THE REPORT DECISION. Importer is the Temporary Committee of inquiry, on 21 April 2016. Here you are, Mr. Hamid, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I suggest we postpone the debate on t. 7 on the agenda. [[Noise, laughter and lines.]] I hear laughter from the gym. Colleagues, you will laugh a lot if you all look at what the Draft Decision has signed for us the members of this Commission. It turns out from this project that the whole Commission, led by the President of the Commission, has a special opinion, meaning no one likes the report, including the President who cooked it. There is a particular opinion in a report that says that someone disagrees with this report. But what's going on? We are being offered to accept this report. It is not clear whether a vote has been taken in the Commission, how many were there for the Commission, how many were against the Commission, how many were abstentions. How are these signatures collected, because here I see "O.M." are all signed under the same proposal in the same way: "O.M. "? Mr. Glauchev, this report resembles another report that was adopted in your office some time ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u127	Let's talk this way! [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u128	Here, take a look at the report. So let us postpone the debates and the vote on this. 7, until the Commission does its job, and I don't really know how it will do its job, as it has expired. Someone should come out and explain whether these signatures, apparently collected on their knees, have not been collected after the Commission has completed its work. And did this Commission ever work, did it do anything, or did we do a year and a half PR? A temporary committee for a year and a half seems a little light to me, fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u129	And thank you, Mr. Hamid. A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear fellow Hamid, it was not honorable of you to classify and defamate, I would say, the labor of these people who worked nine months tightly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u131	I didn't say I was a debacle! I didn't say!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u132	You haven't said it, but see what this report is about, which has been published as early as April. At the very least out of respect for all those people who have made an effort to make a 180-page report, to collect an enormous amount of material, to analyse it and at the end to express their position, their recommendations in it, at least for this reason it was not worthy of your behaviour, your speech, and the fact that they have a particular opinion all, this means that all have certain remarks which they are asked to make in writing. They have not been applied, but a large part of colleagues have expressed their desire to make public in this House the reason for their particular opinion. And finally, on the most important question, the question of whether it was signed on some lawn or not. Mr. Hamid, the work is done, the work is done, the result is there. The report was adopted on signature after the expiry of the extension period, which does not make the report illegal, and for your information, I can inform you that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u133	No, he didn't say it was illegal. No, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u134	Well, don't let me get any harder then! [[Noise and lines.]] Okay, not to get so intense, but I can't hide that I'm bitter and vulnerable by the way you treat these people's work, at least. The report is absolutely regular, the signatures are regular, the people are alive and they are around you. The fact that your representative did not wish to appear at any meeting at first does not honor him. Secondly, do not honor you as a group once again trying to do, excuse me, your sabotage activity by momentum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. I'm putting the motion to the vote... [[Lowered noise, lines...]] You're offering a personal explanation on a procedure? How can I give you the floor? I put to the vote the proposal made by the people's representative Hamid Hamid to postpone the point that we are about to discuss and vote on eventually. We are voting on a proposal from MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. They voted 109 MPs: 14 against 68, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Simeonov, you have the floor to present a summary of the report, as the report itself is quite voluptuous. [[Deputies of the DPS are leaving the Chamber.]] Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 19 February 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 [[Lowered noise, lines and calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u137	Excuse me, Mr. Simeonov! I'm asking for order in this room. Who wants to leave, who wants to stay, but to observe the necessary order in this Chamber! [[Noise and lines.]] Guys in the front row! You have the floor, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u138	On 19 February 2015, the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria decided on the establishment of a Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015. The Commission was repeatedly extended by a decision of the National Assembly, with the deadline of 30 November 2015. The composition of the Commission was attended by 8 MPs elected on a parite principle by one of each parliamentary group, namely, as follows: President Valeri Simeonov "Patriotic Front," members: Valentin Nikolov "GERB," Tasco Ermenkov "BSP Left Bulgaria," Ramadan Atalay "DPS," Martin Dimitrov 27 meetings were held at which meetings were held with representatives of ministers, members of regulatory bodies and key licensed companies in the energy sector. A number of reports, contracts, explanations and other information related to the production and sale of electricity and natural gas by the abovementioned state authorities and commercial companies have been requested and examined. Sectoral analyses were also examined and regulatory audits adopted by competent state authorities implementing control and regulation in energy, such as the Commission for Protection of Competition, the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and others, as well as the conclusions of the experts of the European Commission who conducted a study of the Bulgarian energy sector in 2013. I would slightly replace the order of the exhibition, and first of all I would like to introduce you to the findings and conclusions, as well as to the recommendations that we make to all of you, as well as to the institutions, because at the beginning I think the most important part must be presented, and also in view of the possible progress of the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u139	As you see fit, imagine the résumé.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u140	As a result of the work carried out to address the identified problems, the Commission makes the following proposals in the report: Firstly, to implement European legislation in the field of State aid, namely: (a) a review of long-term contracts for the production of electricity; (b) as regards State aid, the possibility of changing the mechanism for supporting electricity produced from renewable sources and from high-efficiency cogeneration by changing the Energy Act and the Energy Act from renewable sources in the context of the Guidelines on State aid for the protection of the environment and energy for the period 2014-2020 to the European Commission, providing that the aid is granted as an add-on to the premium in addition to the market environment by which producers sell their electricity directly on the market. This is the first serious, substantial proposal. The next is the amended provisions under which State aid is granted to be notified to the Directorate-General of the European Commission in accordance with art. 108, § 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, before the application of something which has been broken several times so far. The next requirement is to consider a legislative change to the Energy Act introducing measures for the implementation of Regulation No 1227 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2011 on the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market, special control powers and sanctions for offenders. Our next proposal is to supplement the Energy Act from renewable sources by providing for a provision that a producer of renewable sources, for which a breach in the accession process is established by the competent authorities, cannot benefit from a preferential price and must buy-in something that is currently ongoing. Although there have been violations, electricity from renewable producers continues to be bought at a high price. Our next recommendation is to introduce the legal capacity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to analyse the costs found in the checks of ADFI under art. 80a of the Energy Act and the extent to which they correspond to the costs established in the relevant price decisions, something that is also not being carried out at the moment. Our next recommendation is to consider the possibility of determining in the Energy Act a percentage of the licence activity that can be assigned so that the licence holder does not become a formal holder of the licence and an intermediary between the customers and the company that actually performs the licence activity. This circumstance is currently present mainly in the ERPs, which reassign up to 60% of their activities to related and related companies. Our next recommendation is the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to propose an update of the price of ERP network services linked to the real costs needed to achieve the quality of the services provided. The KEWRC should ensure that a quality indicator is included. The next recommendation is the KEWRC to discuss and adopt a decision to buy electricity equipment under § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Energy Act by years from electricity distribution companies. The Energy Act must strengthen the status of the regulator as a college administrative body by explicitly signing the rights and obligations of its individual members, including the right, and the obligation only to submit the reports to the KEWRC meetings. It is necessary for the Ministry of Energy to take action to optimize the costs of state-owned companies, such as the adoption of rules for the purchase of carbon allowances and others. To develop a package of appropriate social protection measures for end-users, and in particular, to provide adequate guarantees for the protection of vulnerable clients, something that has already been undertaken. The Commission proposes to the Council of Ministers to review state participation in all mixed energy companies in order to avoid any conflict of interest. Our next recommendation is to discuss possible changes to the Energy Act related to forced administrative measures and the procedure for withdrawing a licence. In view of the announced principle of transparency in the activities of KEWRC, all price models should be available on its website. KEWRC should develop and adopt new quality indicators because, according to the 2010 Methodology, such target indicators have to 2013. At present, there are no such indicators. In order to create prerequisites for improving the work and increasing the responsibility of companies in energy, as well as to remedy the detected systemic violations by some actors in the sector, to consider the introduction of corporate criminal liability in the Criminal Code. Our next recommendation is that all criminal data found in the report be sent to the prosecution to take action on jurisdiction, including: First, there were differences between accounting and electricity consumption in the area of CEZ Distribution Bulgaria and CEZ Electro Bulgaria. Second, there were differences between reported and invoiced quantities, as well as between the dates of entry into service and the dates of first energy reports at Third, differences were found between reported and invoiced quantities, as well as between dates of entry into service and dates of first reports at There will also be other specific data on crimes that are related to specific companies that I will not mention here. I would like to inform you that, until now, two gross violations have been reported to the prosecutor's office, and the other few hundred, colleagues, we will submit once you have approved the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u141	Excuse me, Mr. Simeonov, I'm interrupting you with inconvenience, but I'd like to congratulate our guests, as time is very tight and late in the program. You will continue after this. Dear colleagues, guests of the National Assembly today are the official parliamentary delegation of the State Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, led by its chairman Dr. Berglez, together with parliamentarians, representatives of the various parliamentary groups. They are on a three-day official visit to Bulgaria. Please welcome them, though, to this orchard of the National Assembly. [[Applause.]] You may proceed, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u142	Thank you. I would also like to thank the House for its huge interest in the report. The report mainly examines the electricity sector separately and the natural gas sector. In the sector of electric power. In accordance with Directive 2009/82 EC and under the Energy Act in the Republic of Bulgaria, the process of liberalization of electricity from 1 July 2007 has been initiated, and the process has been phased out and customers connected to the high and medium voltage grid are involved in the free electricity market as of 2014. There is currently liberalisation of the low-voltage sector related to domestic customers and small businesses. The share of the free market has increased over the years. The wholesale electricity market. the energy in Bulgaria is characterized by the existence of legal contractual obligations of the public supplier NEC to buy electricity from the manufacturer at preferential prices, expressed in obligations for the long-term purchase of electricity between 12 and 20 years, at purchase prices significantly above the market levels of electricity prices. Such obligations are the long-term electricity purchase agreements between NEK EAD and AES Maritsa East 1 Pursuant to Decision C 35 of 1 November 2015 of the KEWRC in the regulated market Unfortunately, from the entire volume of purchased electricity from NEK, the participation of the cheapest state producers, namely the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and TPP "Maritsa Iztok 2" is around 3% now. The report examines the main players in the energy market. First of all, this is NEK EAD. As a public supplier he plays a major role in the work of the electricity market and the electricity system in Bulgaria. As a result of the taking over of all commercial regulatory risk combined with the replacement commitments for the mandatory purchase of electricity by producers under long-term purchase contracts, of electricity available and that produced from renewable sources from high-efficiency cogeneration of electricity, it is found that the financial situation of the company over the years is not apparent. At present, NEK has a deficit of over 4 billion. lv. By carrying out the activities of a public supplier, NEK's financial results are directly linked to the decisions of the SEWRC or now the KEWRC, which define the parameters in which the regulated market operates. Therefore, the financial results of the company are strongly influenced by price regulatory decisions. In recent years NEK has been a buffer to compensate the burdens arising from changes in the electricity sector related to the intensive introduction of new RESs, the reduction of protected consumers, the liberalisation of the electricity market, the division of NEK EAD and ESO EAD and not least with the reduction, the reduction of electricity prices in the region and in Europe. In most cases, NEK remains uncompensated for the costs incurred to carry out its main activity. The increase in the obligations of NEK, without established binding safeguard mechanisms, leads to the increase in the money deficit and the debt of the company. An additional burden on the financial situation of NEK EAD is given by the purely political decisions taken in the past for the realization of large-scale investment projects such as the Tsankov kamak and the NPP, which are an additional burden at present in the deficit of NEK. The report also examines the shareholder participants of NEK in mixed companies such as the hydropower complex "Greece Arda", "Contur Global Maritsa East 3" and the related problems by proposing that these interests be reconsidered by assessing the damage and benefits in view of the financial situation of the company at present and the legal problems encountered. The requirements for compulsory buying-in of different producers, namely long-term contracts for the supply of electricity, producers of electricity from renewable sources and plants producing electricity from high-efficiency cogeneration, are analyzed. First of all, long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity constitute a combination of long-term reserve capacity, guaranteed minimum purchase of energy, a price mechanism covering all changes, mainly fixed and capital costs, including carbon emissions, ensuring high return on investment and transferring all risks of NEK to NEK EAD. At the moment, we are talking about the two contracts with the so-called US power plants (TPP) Maritsa East 1 and 3. Moreover, at the moment after the introduction of a public obligation fee, NEK is obliged and is currently paying the five percent that are due to this fund from the two US power plants. Even that pays again NEK. The price of electricity produced and paid to each of the two power plants includes three main components of the European Union, which does not make sense for me to bother you with these details, but this does not correspond to standard contracts for the purchase of electricity entered into in the European countries and European markets. The conditions under these contracts place the EIS Maritsa East 1 and the Contur Global Maritsa East 3 in better economic terms than other producers on the market, on the other hand, and possibly new potential market participants. Therefore, in essence, these long-term contracts undoubtedly constitute State aid within the meaning of and contrary to art. 107 § 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which provides for a general prohibition of State aid within the Community. In this case, there is a pending procedure before the Directorate-General of the European Commission (CEJC) and for your information there is a bill submitted by the Group of the Patriotic Front for the termination of these long-term contracts. The reason why Valeri Simeonov to sign the report with a special opinion is an exact disagreement with regard to the wording of State aid, which, in my opinion, is clear, proven to these plants, and according to colleagues, the decision of the European Commission should be waited to be announced. I use to open this clamp to explain the nature of the special opinions of both myself and my colleagues. With regard to the scheme for stimulating the producer of electricity from renewable sources under the Renewable Energy Act, the reasons leading to excessive investment in this sector for an extremely short period of time with an end date of 30 June 2012 are examined, with all these investments and costs for construction of sites currently being built by the Bulgarian State through NEC being obliged to recover with a higher price of electricity paid to these producers. The Law on the amendment and supplement of the Renewable Energy Act in force from 17 July 2012 provided the SEWRC with the opportunity to determine a preferential price for the purchase of electricity from RES not only once a year, as it was until then, but also where necessary, in the event of a possible analysis and the result shows a substantial change from the conditions. This change comes after the mandatory national goal of the Republic of Bulgaria has already been implemented for 16% of the total share of renewable energy in the gross final energy consumption under the European Union plan "Europe 2020." In other words, a late amendment. In many cases, we come across exactly such paradoxes when the legal base is changing late and cannot in any way limit what has already been done in our view, to put it mildly, abuses. With regard to the scheme for stimulating producers of electricity from renewable sources, which are carried out by cogeneration, and at the moment we have very serious overcosts, overpayments due to allowances, on the one hand, and on the other, at improperly high prices, which do not correspond to the initial investments in these heating and plant plants. For your information, I will open another clamp to tell you that we have cases where heat efficiency is over 15 years old and we continue to pay them the amortizations of something that is - to put it mildly - unthinkable. A few more specific data. In this case, European legislation to promote the use of energy from renewable sources has been applied selectively and incompletely without applying the State aid provisions, as well as Community guidelines on State aid for environmental protection for the period 2008 In this case, there has been a procedure submitted to the Directorate-General for Renewable Energy from 2014, which the Ministry of Energy notified to the Renewable Energy Act two months ago. The Commission's ruling on these two proceedings is expected. In other words, a complaint has been lodged regarding excessive aid to the two US power plants, a complaint has also been lodged with regard to excessive State aid to RES. The problem with RES producers is also strengthened by the violations found in the process of joining these power plants to the electricity distribution network, which led to the wrongful benefit of certain producers. In this regard, the report provided the results of the checks carried out on the topic of the SEWRC in 2014, as well as findings on the data submitted by the electricity distribution companies. It is established that 1736 RESs are connected to the electricity distribution networks in the 2007-2013 period. The problems we have summarized in several groups, which I will list without going into detail. First of all, a breach of the coordination procedure with the transmission undertaking in the case of the connection of RES to the distribution network Unfortunately, the information was difficult to deliver from the Commission. To the procedural claims of colleagues who left the Chamber, I can say that on 27 May we have a reply to the last letter that we have sent to some of the institutions. This has created very serious problems in drawing up the final opinion of the Commissioners on individual issues, as well as in drawing up the report. I'm continuing with the RES violations. Another violation is the obligation under art. 30 of the LEAs to provide real-time data transmission. In other words, RES was obliged to provide data from real-time electricity produced with the relevant telecommunications sensors. This is broken by 345 RES! Third offense. Quantities of energy produced in the first 12 months after accession show that some producers have invoiced energy produced for nearly months, and there are also cases per year before they are included. Can you imagine?! They're on, and they're calculating energy a year before that. There are other cases. At the time, 53 photo plants with total installed capacity were connected to Energoprom-nets and the documents for commissioning were issued in June 2012, when the registration deadline for the inclusion of RES was expired, and the first invoices for energy produced were issued months and years later. The question is whether these RESs were built and whether they existed at all. With the modest opportunities available, we have photographs of individual objects which, a month before its inclusion, are officially and documentarily, raw and rough construction. Other violations that we have encountered, e.g. 63 RES related to EVN, have started production in a period longer than six months, 43 of these 63 power plants have received their permission literally in the last days of June, the mass inclusion of the RES in question, which we can compare to the Klondike gold fever described by Jack London. The problems described in relation to differences between quantities of energy produced, paid and reported were further examined by the Commission. We've bothered to check out all the RES that have joined, the amount of energy they've been feeding. It turns out that there are very serious discrepancies in the electricity meter data and the data written in the invoices on which the accounts of such producers have been paid. Can you imagine? It is about several hundred such cases set out in our report, in separate tables for which the prosecution will be referred. They are described separately under the ERPs to which they are connected. The general impression is formed that the ERPs were a front for the RES-centrals behind which neither NEK nor the SEWRC nor any state institution was interested in what was going on. In other words, we have multiple cases described in the report when more energy is sold to NEK than is produced by the relevant RESs. How could this miracle go beyond the results of a perpetum mobile? I hope we get an answer from the relevant services and institutions, from the prosecution. Other violations that we have encountered are double funding with investment aid, in other words RES, which are built with European aid funds, mainly under Programme Nos 311 and 312 of the agricultural aids, which the RES did not show their European funding, but produced electricity and received the full amount of pay at a high price. That's 259 cases. Other infringement contracts for access to the network under art. 104 of the Energy Act 99 RES do not have such contracts. Unfortunately, I should introduce you to the numerous penal decrees in this regard imposed by the KEWRC, but I cannot do so, because in these cases there are almost no penalties imposed, which is very strange and shows paralysis of the then SEWRC. Unfortunately, this practice has shifted to the new composition of the KEWRC, but this separately when we get to the KEWRC. The bill for the amendment of the Energy Act, voted for second reading in the National Assembly, provided for the establishment of a new art. 32, according to which, on the basis of an inspection carried out by the State Financial Control Agency, when establishing non-compliance with investment costs, the KEWR will be able to accept individual prices with the relevant RES from the inclusion parameters. In the final text of the Law, however, this article strangely dropped out. At present, the Law continues to be imperfect in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u143	Please navigate towards completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u144	Okay. I am skipping the data available for the major state power plants Kozloduy and TPP Maritsa East, I am skipping the power system operator and the Bulgarian Energy Holding. There's enough serious material in the report. With regard to the power plants, are they producing electricity? co-production energy, the so-called factory heat efficiency, I also mentioned the violations, but we believe there is also a scheme to support this type of production. A few more words that I'm going to finish. These are the findings on the work of the ERPs. There, too, we witnessed a number of violations. The main violations are the transfer and reimbursement of the licensed ERP of related and related companies, where the costs were first increased, and a large part of the profits were exported outside Bulgaria, unfortunately. With regard to consumer work, we have also identified very serious shortcomings in the work of the ERPs. Indeed, the buying-in of the accession facilities, which are built by the relevant client, is very late, which is the obligation of the ERPs. Neither do we have an indicator of quality, consumer satisfaction. Working with consumers is at a very low level. We've also looked at private complaints, not one and two, we've encountered manipulation of measuring instruments and so on and so forth and so forth and so forth. The Commission's work on energy and water regulation, as I mentioned, has been most critical of the fact that over 1000 penal decrees have not been issued by the President of the Commission despite the violations found. In conclusion, I have prepared one text, I can say that the findings in the report coincide entirely with those in the report of the European Commission on the state of the energy union in 2015, published on 18 November 2015. In the same part for Bulgaria, it is noted that there are complex problems in the country, namely: expansion of the producer of electricity from renewable energy, the basis of which are the generous subsidies of solar plants and cogeneration, long-term contracts, delays in decommissioning of plants which do not comply with Directive 2001/80/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2001 on limiting the emissions of certain pollutants into the air emitted from large combustion plants. Last but not least, I quote a finding precisely from the Energy Union report of the European Commission: a weak and politically dependent regulator, as well as a failure to implement reforms in the energy sector. All this leads to increased problems in the sector. Let me thank all my fellow Members who have taken an extremely conscientious part in the work of the Commission. It wasn't allowed, I'd say, and half a meeting to be held at. The talks were entirely technocratic, and I believe that with what we have done, honourable Members, what we are giving your attention, we can be proud of the Commission that is working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Dear colleagues, we will stop our work. After the holiday we continue with a statement by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Magdalena Tasheva. Rest till 12:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u146	Honourable Members, we are continuing the plenary session. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. [[Noise.]] Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u147	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I go into the substance of my speech, I would like to say to you that perhaps today, indeed, we are witnessing the first case in the history of the National Assembly, when a report which is being submitted to the National Assembly is signed by everyone with a particular opinion, including the President of the Commission. Something that causes real confusion and, I would say, will probably enter the annals of Bulgarian parliamentaryism as a unique event. I hope it will indeed remain unique and not repeat itself in our parliamentary history. This report could not have been signed in any other way, because in Bulgarian energy there are a lot of problems which have their political reasons, and when there are representatives of different political parties who have participated in the government of the state and in their time have taken political irresponsible decisions, I will refer to them further who they are, they will agree to enter a report and this report will then be discussed because it means in some form to make harakiri. I would say that the President of the Commission decided to act a little more cohesively on everyone and to bring out those controversial issues that should have been mentioned inside, as a result of which even those who were not involved in the government of the State remained dissatisfied and also signed with a particular view this report because it did not have the findings that should have been there. That was the reason I signed the report with a special opinion. I'll try here to be a little more argumentative. I hope that the dispute that we are having here will be extremely serious, although in principle it should also come out of the specific report, which has been tabled for discussion, because this report covers part of the real reality in Bulgaria. It cannot solve all the problems of energy, identify them completely and list them because these problems have accumulated for 25 years. Given that energy is part of the country's economy, you can't solve the problems and point out what happened in energy if you don't stop at the economy, but you can't do that if you have a mandate in a committee. In the end, it is very difficult to try at the state level to search and give some reasons and answers in a system that is exclusively and entirely, what to call it, debalanced by the handover of the public interest in favour of the private. Unfortunately, that's true. At the same time, however, we cannot ignore the fact that the Bulgarian society expected this report as a proof of our attempt to bring energy problems into light, to state the reasons for its unenviable state. What everyone expected of us was to answer that very popular one and now became a negative question: "Who? " Who was making the decisions that brought energy to this state today? As a result of what political plays and not quite decent prepositions were these decisions taken that led to this state? Unfortunately, our report does not fully meet all these expectations of society. Inside there are many facts that are mentioned, but they are quite thematic, I would say so "Selected thematically," do not cover the integrity of the problems. As I have already said, there is not a single word to the political responsibility for decisions taken in the report. In fact, reading this report, those who have bothered to read it, I want to ask you: have you learned anything new that does not exist in the society in Bulgaria regarding what is happening in the energy sector? Maybe the only newer thing you've learned are really some names of breaking the rules of the game, but these names and these guys broke the rules of the game are people who have taken advantage of the existing situation. They didn't come up with these rules, they just managed to be clever enough to adjust to the rules and benefit from what was given to them as an opportunity. In fact, these names, for me at least, I may be wrong, but I'll say they were selected by an unknown criterion. Those names will hardly shape people's opinions about the real situation of things. In fact, if I may say so, we don't see the forest from the trees today. From the many facts, if I say it in another way written in this report, we cannot but see the problems in whole, and from this the report becomes half-truth, and you know that the only thing that is scarier than lying is the half-truth. I am not saying that there are false things in the report, but I am saying that they are not fully and completely expressed. In fact, this was also the main reason why I signed this report with a particular view. In this speech, I will try to point out at least those who bear, in my opinion, at least political responsibility for the decisions that have led to today's state. The report stated that by 2015 the electricity prices sold to us by the Maritsa East 1 and by the Maritsa East 3 and the so-called in the public domain and known as the American power stations are two and a half times and a half times more expensive than the normal prices in Bulgaria, respectively. More than that. It was pointed out that the State through the National Energy Company is obliged to buy all the energy produced or not produced because this is how the contract was signed. Because the Bulgarian society may know this, but I would like to point out from this tribune that these contracts were signed in 2001 by the government of Mr. Ivan Kostov. So if today we pay the price of this electricity, which is produced by these American plants, and society, business and industry in Bulgaria suffer from it. The guilty, irresponsible decision was made by Mr. Ivan Kostov's government. So let's know these things and because they didn't find any reflection in the report, so I say it from the stands of the National Assembly. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] We're talking about the ERPs. We are talking that they are making violations, that they also benefit illegally. I remind you, the electricity distribution companies that were then electricity distribution companies were privatized during the time of the government of Simeon Saxe-Coburg, when your leader was, by the way, the Secretary-General and your Chair of the Parliamentary Group, his collaborator. Visiblely, he enjoyed this privatization then, because in 2012 he enjoyed it very much. Now in his government, you have pre-privatized them by also selling the 30 percent remaining share for each one of them and leaving the state out of control inside. So if you're asking who's to blame for the ERPs disbanding two governments, the government of Simeon Saxe-Coburg and Mr. Boyko Borisov's first government. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, then the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, is the only body of the Commission that has taken measures to deal with these distortions in energy, and this is also reflected in the report, but it is not stated that it is the only case, is the composition of the Commission since the beginning of 2014, when it raised and started checking the ERPs, when it started checking the renewable energy sources of the plants and when more than 2000 acts of established administrative violations were written, which, as mentioned in the report, were smashed in half. And not to mention that those who were released were released on minimum punishment possibilities. I ask: what was the motivation of this state commission then appointed by President Plevneliev during the caretaker government to crush these decrees in order not to take the necessary measures? The Commission in 2014 was the only Commission to initiate a notification to the European Commission on the possibility of establishing unlawful or excessive State aid in respect of US power plants. 2014! Today we are 2016, we still do not have an answer to this question. Our government is justified by the fact that correspondence is made and letters are written and so on, but every day we drag ourselves out on this issue, we pay that price! And I, if I were the Prime Minister, would be there every day and ask for an answer whether this help is excessive, is there, so that we can finally solve this problem. Renewable energy sources, which are also identified as the main culprits, notice, in any case in the report we have identified the consequences as the culprits. In fact, those who have taken advantage of the rules of the game, as I said, are the ones responsible for the fact that we have given them the opportunity to take advantage or, as they say, guilty, contrary to the saying, according to the report, not who gives the pie, but who eats it. Colleagues, the saying is vice versa, to remind you is not a madman who eats the pie, he is mad who gives it to him. So you heard about renewable energy sources in the report. In 2012, a total of 1114 renewable energy sources were introduced in Bulgaria, 2012 during the administration of Mr. Boyko Borisov's first government. In 2011, the Law, which was in 2008, changed. In 2008, the Law.......................... has enabled the premium above the market price that the KEWRC sets each year to be adjusted by 5%, which means that in 20 years this allowance could have become zero percent.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u148	For 20 years?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u149	Yeah, in 20 years, zero percent, times five when you multiply it, you'll see how much you get. I don't think math is that complicated. You introduced the amendments to the Law to the price for the entire period, no matter how high, without the right to correction, and created the conditions so that only this year 1072 power plants in the field of photovoltaic power plants would be put into operation, of which 60% in just 10 days. And I ask: who in Bulgaria will complain about the inefficiency of the work of the state administration, which managed in 10 days to issue permits to 60% of the PV plants introduced in Bulgaria? And did that happen just because she was quite energetic in her actions, or was she stimulated in some way? Moreover, notice, at any level of the Energy Ministry, where the game was defined, is passed through the DNCC, where the permits were issued and to the municipalities that were redeploying the land. Here is another accompanying fact of what administration we had in 2012 and how it served the interests of the population with a minus sign. Moreover, then the highest prices were introduced for a long period of time. If you ask who is guilty to have so many photovoltaic plants in Bulgaria, I will say it too. Guilty is Mr. Boyko Borisov's first government. In his day they were put into service. We're paying that price today! Because when word gets out that they've been introduced without the proper analysis... Mr. Simeonov, they were made, but they weren't used. In 2005 it was developed by the Energy Efficiency Agency.. under my leadership, a long-term program for the introduction of renewable energy sources in Bulgaria, where a solid analysis of this system and consumption was made to what extent and volumes, and what kind of renewable energy can absorb without risks. There are no more than 300 megawatts of renewables from the sun. And so on. There it is described that the first three years will have preferential prices, after which so-called incentives must be introduced through green certificates, something that we are only starting to talk about today. But nobody's read them. Because there this system and this programme did not allow for the enrichment of some of the officials who helped develop the renewable energy sector as it is today. It is for this reason that I also believe these shortcomings, which I have just mentioned, because there is no political assessment, and we are, after all, the authority that is the highest political authority in the country, I would not advise the National Assembly to accept the report as it is. Because, again, I say, we have fallen into a factology which, in my opinion, only makes it difficult to clarify the truth. It may give separate examples of the relevant violations, but it does not allow us to make a full assessment and to seek responsibility from guilty irresponsible decisions taken in the field of energy. I would like to stress here that there is hardly any government that can boast that it has avoided these mistakes. Once again, I would like to thank you in the end and avoid speculation about how we worked. The committee worked very hard. A vast volume of materials was processed. A lot of factology has been reviewed, read and reflected. But, again, this report is rather the registration and protocol of our meetings than the right political conclusions from why, when, how and who made these decisions for which the entire Bulgarian people are paying today. I hope with my speech, at least to a large extent, that I have answered the question of who is to blame and what is to be done in energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Ermenkov! I will answer you with one sentence, the accusations of the report and the lack of a political element in this report. If this report had political assessments, he would never have seen the light of day. After all, the National Assembly has chosen us to do a purely technical and technocratic work. And I think we did that job. You are absolutely within your right to make this statement, to give your political assessment and to insist that it enter. But, in my opinion, this report must be exempted from political assessments. It is not necessary to mention the names, but in the report I can tell you that all these things that you marked as gaps, namely that the names of Ivan Kostov are missing and I do not know who else are at stake. Here, on page twenty: On the basis of Decision 327 of 11 May 2001 of the Council of Ministers as a result of negotiations with investors, long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity between NEK and Anyone can see on May 11, 2001 who was in charge. I don't think we should have entered into a detailed list of names, prime ministers, ministers of energy and so on. The same applies to the Factology of RESs. She's out, she's in the report. It also applies to checks. The checks that have actually started 2014. A large part of our report has been built precisely on these results of the checks started during Boyan Boev and completed in 2015 February. Nobody denies that. It's written here. However, I think that mentioning specific names would make this report unacceptable, not unacceptable, but impossible to vote and accept. Not only in parliament, and the Commission wouldn't have been able to pass. Otherwise, I think that the recommendations that we have all signed clearly state the violations that have been carried out in the laws, in some late changes to the laws that have been actually made by parliament, about the violations and omissions that the SEWRC, the Ministry of Energy, the DNC, issuing false licenses for use, without building the premises, all these things are in the report. So I would like to address you with a request from Mr. Ermenkov, I would ask you to reconsider your decision and still support the report, to vote, albeit with a particular opinion. At least because of the work we've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Second line. "The People's Representative Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Ermenkov, listening to your speech, I was under the impression that you have just landed in this National Assembly, you have nothing to do with the last 25 years of government of this country, today for the first time you have sworn as a MP and somehow washed your hands, and you said: "GERB is guilty!" But I'll tell you two things. First, colleague Valeri Simeonov was very right and today you actually made one mistake. This report really should have looked at it from the point of view of how objective it is, whether it benefits the future of energy, be useful to the government, parliament, the regulator, if you will, or we will turn it into a political dispute to explain who is right and who is wrong. Since you have started with this tone, I will answer you with the same one thing, you were only right about one thing: the person who eats the pie is not crazy, but the one who gives it to him. Because you said Boyko Borisov's first government joined 1000 megawatts in 2012. Yes, fact! Do you know how many were requested at the time? Over 11,000. Megawatta and you know it very well. Because at the time of your government, during one sitting, Mr. Kornezov, on the occasion of one call from the hall, you change to the RES Act to buy at preferential prices from 20 to 25 years old. You're the ones who gave those high preferential prices. You're the ones who opened the door to big investors who made 30 each 40 and more megawatts. Because you know very well that a project has not been implemented since 2012 after two or three months. These are long-term projects that take two-three-four years and more to be implemented in order to be connected. Therefore, do not wash your hands, because you have the biggest guilt. If someone has violated their right to join, it is not the job of the National Assembly. But you have given legislative opportunity for these large investors to invest and use preferential prices. So come over here and tell me whether it's true or not, not throwing accusations for nothing. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. The third line is Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! After 26 years of transition, we first saw such a report see the light of day. My congratulations to the Commission is 13 months' work on this report. You should see how many files we're talking about. I'll be too short. I would say that from now on, the consequences of this report are in the hands of the Attorney General. Bear in mind that the report is extremely specific, extremely clear, and I think that the Attorney General himself should demand it. And if he doesn't demand it, I assume the Commission will send it to his desk. Because in this report, things have been made very clear. Otherwise, as far as the 30% that my esteemed Mr. Eremenkov said, he knows very well that things there do not sit exactly as he explained them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Ermenkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u157	Mr. Chairman, please extend the group's time. Mr. Simeonov, we don't have much difference in what you said and what I said. That's why I said that they all signed it with a particular opinion. You just proved why. Because if these findings of mine had really come in, some of them wouldn't have signed it at all. Some! And some would have signed it. Mr. Nenkov, when you talk about 11 gigawatt applications for the accession of renewable sources [[Reply of National Representative Alexander Nenkov]] , 11,000. Megawatts make 11 gigawatts to remember it like this in the future, to know it as compliance. When you talk about them, you miss one thing. All contracts and applications were of two years limitation. That is, even assuming that in the last days of Mr. Stanishev's government in 2009 they were signed, in 2011, they would have expired. And your accessions took place in 2012, and became more claimed and paid guarantees at the end of 2011. I mean, these are all requests made at your time. They're not from our time. So don't transfer it to us. Take this guilt, it is already clear to people and you do not have to try to explain, because the more you enter this swamp, the more you sink. That's my advice. People know, people see. And especially those who paid to get their accession, so they kind of laugh at you behind their backs and even more fall into their eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. There is a floor for the public representative Magdalena Tasheva. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u159	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am the only member of the Temporary Commission who has refused to sign this report. I wanted to sign it with a special opinion, but after seeing this unique case in history [[shows report]] , when the President of the Commission, who should at least nominally be the author, has signed his own report with a particular opinion and everyone else has done so, I had no other way to distinguish myself than not to sign it at all. Because, unfortunately, there is no print, there is no procedure, there is a negative opinion, there is a particular opinion, whatever that means. I am going out on the stand to invite you not to accept this report for the following reasons. The Commission, although very limited, since twice its working time was extended twice, was actually able to work for a total of six months and it did a huge job. There are scary things, big violations, big political and economic mishaps, which are first thoughtful, and then the law is passed to legitimize them. Yeah, right says Mr. Slavcho Atanasov. Huge is the pyramid of folders. The people who came to the hearing, these are the managers of the Bulgarian energy sector. They were very well-intentioned. A large part of the material is a commercial secret. I mean, if I can compare a committee's work with scientific work, we have huge experimental material. But the conclusions are gone, the patterns are not out. We have been presented with a report, which may be in 60. 70% of its volume is a literary reference or bibliography of old reports, which found something here and there a frame of the landscape of Bulgarian energy. For example, a critic rightly said that it is unclear why we are being given a short course in European law here. On page 1, page 1, 2 or p. 3, I'm sorry. 5 lists all the directives in the field of energy which are already mentioned in the Energy Act. Simply "copy-paste" by the Law and hop on page. 5. A report of the European Commission, which, by the way, has been quoted after two days of consultations by the representatives of the generals,............................................................................................. They have come here, for example, on April 25th, and on May 23rd, 24th, in those two days they questioned someone who wrote a report, and this report is quoted almost as saying the whole thing. This happened in 2013 spring. Let me add another report by the Commission for Protection of Competition, is almost entirely copied. He went out in 2014. This report refers to case number 39816, which the European Commission has brought to NEC for the dominant role of And although the case has not yet been closed, the report takes on itself the commitment to speak on behalf of the European Commission against Gszprom. There is a political pasquil on page 158 to 160, in fact almost ten pages are divided into political attacks against the Russian energy giant. It is not true that there was no political element here. On the contrary, open from page 149 to the end and you will see only political declarations. For example, an extremely positive attitude towards some report by the 2012 KMG, which has dealt with the pros and advantages of shale gas. The Commission has not dealt with such things at all. Why does the report not reflect what we are dealing with, what we have found, for example, how do state-owned energy companies, I refer to the TPP, Maritsa East 2, are deliberately, purposefully bankrupt through the price decisions of the so-called "regulator"? It is not even mentioned here that the Executive Director of TPP Maritsa East 2 was heard twice in the Commission. Only once has his name been mentioned, and in passing, so much as not without a clue. He explained how the price decisions of KEWRC went bankrupt TPP Maritsa East 2 and hence went bankrupt and Mines Maritsa East. Why are there no information that ministers from the cabinet Borisov 2 presented to us that every private mine is offshore, that any larger RES is offshore, that all heating companies are offshore, they do not pay taxes to the Bulgarian state? Why isn't this here? After all, the Commission's work logically concluded that Bulgarian energy, state energy is bankrupt by law. NEK is bankrupt by law. By the way, on June 5th Minister Temenuzhka Petkova gave a press conference in which she admitted that under the Energy Act the National Electricity Company should rob, I quote, negative loops, buy electricity at preferential prices and sell them at market prices. What's the difference? According to the last price decision of KEWRC for this year the estimated market price of 1 megawatt hour is 73 BGN. Yes, Mr. Ermenkov is right when he says that one of the Maritsa sells its energy two and a half times more expensive, and the other is one and a half times more expensive. But, sorry, there are RES that sell their energy 7 times, 8 times more expensive than this market price. And we saw them the other day - these are the owners of the small RES, who in the Commission asked to buy out their photovoltaic, whether it is photovoltaic or conventional, this cannot be determined, but to buy out their current by, I quote, BGN 560. at a megawatt hour. And NEK has to pay for that energy, and sell it at 60-70 leva. Well, there is no company that could survive such a regime that was imposed on NEK through the corrupt, lobbyist, anti-Bulgarian, anti-state Energy Act. We need a new law. I would like to appeal once again to the Chair of the Temporary Commission............................................. with mending and amendments of the Law. We need a new Law with a new spirit, facing the Bulgarian national interest, because the Energy Act currently serves the extremely foreign interest to the detriment of the Bulgarian one. One more thing to add. There is much talk that NEK had 3 billion, 4 billion, over 4 billion deficits. Excuse me, the state is ordering NEK to build a Tsank Stone....roads, tunnels, wall and so on. That's worth a billion dollars. Can NEK disobey? You can't! The national power company builds these facilities, then the state says it won't pay. Once again, the state is tasking NEC to build a site in Belene plus a town or a neighborhood for the workers who will come. That's worth another billion, if not more. NEK does the state's bidding, the state refuses to pay. Well, I'm sorry, at this point, the government can literally pay off NEK tomorrow. You've already drawn 16 billion. Pay $2 billion to NEK and immediately its deficit will fall in half. Or, if you don't want to do it, if you want to destroy this company that's being emptied of its assets and is already almost hollow indeed since Bone Time, then stop saying that NEK had 4 billion. lv. deficiency. You made this deficit, you did it to her. You're the state, you're the ruler. I continue with other weaknesses of the report, which is why I did not sign it. The author of the report, although the President of the Commission is responsible, he was written by one of his advisors with a controversial reputation to fill this deficit. The lack of facts found by the Commission was chosen as a filling of old facts. For example, it is said that the Prosecutor's Office should be called upon for the case. What does that mean? Very few people know. It's that midnight sun that glowed 33 hours a day. It's about a chain of small power plants of some Barbara Panitz from Germany. Excuse me, this case was solved by the Minister of Energy Assen Vassilev 2013. He has no place here. As there is no place and a bunch of other revelations about abuse and violations in energy found, as I have already said, in previous years. The report refers to this, if I should quote the President, that the ERPs have exported about 60% of their services for which they have been licensed have exceeded them. This was also found in 2011 and we published the audit reports in our newspaper "Attack" 2012 from the end to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u160	We haven't read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u161	Don't shout. Then there was a subsequent audit cycle which found the same and greater violations. The then President of the Commission, the regulator, in the cabinet Oresharski Boyan Boev even calculated how much money had been exported, drained from the Bulgarian energy through fake contracts for external services 818 million. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So we don't need this report to know these things. We know what happened. And lastly, if you'll allow me a little more time extension...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u162	Eleven seconds out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u163	Look, there are no innocents among those who managed Bulgarian energy. I see you're exchanging accusations here. Yes, the fact that the contracts with the American brands were signed by Ivan Kostov. We all remember the scandal. Peter Jotev, the Deputy Prime Minister, was against this and fired because of this, but you miss that the same Peter Jotev and after him and those who inherited his chair at the Ministry gave letters of support! The first letter of support for these contracts was signed by Peter Jotev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u164	Mrs. Tasheva, you're one minute out of time. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u165	Next are Milko Kovachev, Miroslav Sevlievski, Petar Dimitrov. The contract for the special bet on the accounts of Bulgarian electricity users was signed in 2001! But in 2010, the then bosses of NEK Mikhail Andonov and Krasimir Parvanov signed it! It is about a protocol in which they agree with the content of the contract and agree that this ECRO account will move from one bank to another.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u167	I mean... [[Speaking from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u168	Thank you. I'll take your word for it. Please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u169	I mean, there are no innocents between you! Unfortunately, the Commission has failed to fulfil its otherwise noble mission. That is why a second report is needed. This does not work.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u170	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, I am taking a line with full awareness that I will give you extra time as you ate your group, but there is no harm. I feel obliged to challenge the accusations and criticisms you have made to the report, inasmuch as I have marked the main ones. First, this was a bibliographical reference from previous checks. It can't be anything else. In this report we cannot quote checks that we have done ourselves because we do not have such apparatus, we do not have these employees, we do not have these powers. When we go check on some RES, they'll just drop the dogs on us. You know that, right? In addition to these checks, we have made a lot of findings ourselves, as a result of an analysis of the documents and as a result of the discussions, not to say the questions we have conducted. For example, I open the clamp for Duvanliyi. It's not what the Deputy Minister said we found out. We have found that there are about 20 sites in the same area that have shown investments only on the second year after they have started receiving money for the sale of electricity! In other words, they have installed the photovoltaic panels in their balance sheets for the second year. Do you understand? These are our revelations, as are many others, but we do not have a separate apparatus such as the Commission to carry out separate checks. I do not agree that the European Commission's report was made in two days. I don't know how you know where it was made, with what possibilities, documents and materials it was created, but I've basically quoted what matches our findings. Let me get this straight, I'm not a big fan of the European Commission's checks. The report by the KZK is the dominant role of GSzprom. I'm sorry, it's a fact. If you contest it, you might be the only one in this room. And right now, Gazprom is playing a dominant role in the gas supply. For shale gas, we have given factology, which is historical chronology, what has been examined, what has been found and what actions the government has had! We didn't do anything else. Not to mention the words "shist gas," what? We just have to expose all the circumstances of the changes, the things that have happened in the energy sector. I also disagree with the fact that there was no conclusion. These things are written in the conclusion that the TPP Maritsa East 2 is led to bankruptcy by the price decisions of the regulator. It's written. Don't blame us. We mentioned all these things, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Second line.. People's representative Valentin Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Tasheva, I like your criticism and respect your opinion, but we still have to stick to the facts. Some things you said, summarizing the common guilt of all those who have ruled, I have a feeling that somewhere you are saving and somewhere else you are stressing. This, of course, is your political decision. But when you speak, for example, of the particular bet that was made, and when the power plants started to act, interestingly, you don't mention names. Here you mention names that have absolutely nothing to do with Mr. Andonov, who became Chairman of the Bulgarian Energy Holding in 2012. In 2012 Minister Dobrev announced this special pledge and gave it to the Prosecutor's Office. Interesting, all the documents in 2014 said they were lost! There's no way he could be responsible for this particular bet. This particular bet is the reason why the TPP "Maritsa East 1" and TPP "Maritsa East 3" to rely on their creditors banks, to take their loans, to start acting and to rehabilitate 1 and 3. This particular bet cannot be made in 2012! In 2012 that they had moved one ECCRO account from one bank to another due to the requirements, you know that then the problems with the Bulgarian banks came out, that there should be no concentration of capital in a single bank, but should be distributed to 25%, this is a completely different case. You can't blame Mr. Andonov or anyone after 2007! Even 2005, I think it was the odds. So let's not manipulate the facts and the data. Regarding Tsankov Stone, you well said that the State had in principle entrusted, it should perhaps buy out its facilities. But how did all of a sudden out of 200 million this project grow to 1 billion?! That's what you should have said, because someone's taking advantage of it. The national electricity company, if you look at the debt curve, has the most accumulated debts in 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, then the debt curve is held up and 2014. Another billion dollars! Then who's to blame? Let's say it with the names, if we're gonna talk with names, and not twist the facts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Is there a third line? I won't. Mrs. Tasheva, come and get your coat. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u175	Mr. Nikolov, I was quoting Protocol No 7 of 23 February 2010. No 2012 signed by Mr. Angelov, Mr. Mikhail Andonov and Mr. Krasimir Parvanov. You can see it in the archives of the National Assembly, in the documents of that Anti-Corruption Commission, then led, I think, by Yane Yanev, who for the first time published the contracts with the so-called American brands. There's this protocol, look at it. They signed it. I don't see why I should apologize. It wasn't a mistake. They signed it. To Mr. Simeonov. Of course, you can make a literary reference, a back-to-back tour of who discovered what about the defeat, the destruction of Bulgarian energy. But I believe that this report should reflect that part of the work of our Commission, which finds that the corruption that ruins Bulgarian energy is legalized. It is destroyed under the Energy Act and the Renewables Act. We can point to the members that this is happening to. We can also point to what the Finance Minister said at the hearing. We can identify the names of the offshores. Why aren't they here? Here are some tables that are hundreds, perhaps thousands of companies, but not everyone has the opportunity to enter APIS or DAXI and look for the names to see who the owners are. We know who they are! Why are we silent? I thought that was the high mission. What is the title of the Commission So, what's our grade? She's gone. I would like to read only for a moment, one more minute, the last sentences from the Commission's conclusions: It is recommended to submit to the prosecution and the findings on the problems in the work of KEWRC. This is where the report was supposed to start, not end here. We have just come to the point and there the report ends and the Commission is silent. Once again, I am calling on you not to support this report. The committee did a good job. A new report must be written that will actually reflect her work. Its work, not the work of two officials from the European Commission, who came for two days in April 2013, because their opinions occupy much of this vault.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u176	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tasheva. For a statement there is the popular representative Kiril Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I say in advance that I will not make a political statement. I ask you, honourable Members, to land and from the level of political speaking to go to the professional level. We are looking at one of the most important sectors of the Bulgarian economy, and this is one of the most important sectors of national security, and it is insulting to throw names and accusations from left to center and center to right, and to return lines. The list of ministers is the list of all ministers after 2000, not just one, two or three. The establishment of a Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015 was an initiative of the ABB Parliamentary Group, which colleagues from other parliamentary groups joined. The decision on the creation of the Commission was supported in the House by 140 out of 142 MPs voted. In preparing for this speech, I have returned to the reasons by which we have created the Commission, with which we have achieved this enviable unanimity in the vote, which explain our objectives in order to respond to whether we have achieved them. In February last year, we united around, I quote: The need for a stable consensus on the main areas of energy policy and national strategy with priorities, and that the basis of all programming and legislative initiatives should be the clear assessment and analysis of the policy, the results achieved and the specific problems in the energy sector. End quote. It's the motive. Or, in other words, we expected the report to give a general assessment of the current state, which would be the basis and starting point for the country's energy strategy, and to propose measures to stabilise the industry and specific legislative initiatives. Despite the efforts made, after repeated extension of the Commission's work and almost one-year delay, the report under consideration today does not meet our expectations. The proposed text does not really represent the state of energy, therefore preventing adequate decisions from being taken on the basis of the report. The objective of having an assessment of the state of energy is not primarily achieved because the report does not cover the entire national sector. There are no structural defining sectors with critical national energy security importance, such as local coal mining and centralized heat supply. Among other things, such an approach could mislead us that there are no problems in the sectors that are uncommented in the report, which does not correspond to the real state. At the same time, the information on the two sectors addressed in the report is fragmented and incomplete. For example, nuclear power and hydropower are practically missing in the part about electricity. The NPP is located on two pages, one of which is dedicated to a questionable procedure for the Commission under the GOP. On the other hand, unnecessary details of the profile of individual companies, certain procedures under the GOP, checks by competent authorities, most of which have already been completed. The existing problem of long-term contracts between NEK EAD and the two private power plants of the complex of Maritsa East is addressed in the Commission's report only from the point of view of the high prices of the electricity produced, although it does not describe the benefit of their existence, and it is objective because, firstly, the investments invested in the plants are an important factor for energy security, as the plants comply with the European directive on large combustion plants, for dust, nitrogen oxide and sulphur dioxide. Secondly, these contracts provide for the production of electricity from local lignite coal and the future of Bulgarian coal mining is guaranteed. Third, long-term contracts prices are not uniform and they also depend on the extent to which NEK, as a buyer of electricity, uses the available availability intensively to produce and sell energy. If NEK is more active and increases the load of the plants, their prices will fall to much lower levels. The prices of long-term contracts are comparable to prices of such technologies, which is easy to establish on the basis of known public sources. Last but not least, the new European market model, which is the subject of current discussions, contains, in one form or another, payments for availability similar to those in the long-term contracts discussed, with a view to ensuring national energy security. In summary, long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity were the necessary condition to attract investments at the time of their conclusion so that the complex of Maritsa East would continue to exist. In this sense, an up-to-date topic is their transformation for operation of the plants, I stress, under market conditions, rather than termination of contracts or administration of prices. The report focuses mainly on the presentation of extensive information, I stress, on selectively selected actions, public procurement, decisions of the management of the companies or institutions concerned, which the Commission assesses as illegal, including criminal offences and needing the attention of the prosecution, without becoming clear the criteria under which the selection of the cases under investigation is made. This information is important, although it is primarily about infringements of energy companies which have already been established in a corresponding order by the competent authorities. Rather, the focus had to be in the systematic description of the state of energy, with a view to making correct and pragmatic decisions on the basis of the report. It now abounds with retold procedures, quotations or full texts of documents, regulations, audit reports, decisions, opinions of institutions whose content is public or accessible, but it lacks, I stress, a profile of national energy, presented through standard adopted indicators such as energy intensity, carbon intensity, energy dependence, a ratio between extreme and gross energy consumption. There is no follow-up, I stress, defining the problems facing each of the sectors and linking them to achieving the objectives of the European energy policy by 2020 and long-term by 2030. If the state and problems of the national energy sector were drawn from the European industry's European assessments cited in the report, such as those of the European Commission from mid-2013, the European Commission's report on the state of the energy union in November 2015, a working document of the European Commission services, a 2016 report, including an in-depth review on the prevention and correction of macroeconomic imbalances, the analysis would have been more objective, expert and complete. This could also achieve chronological follow-up of development, up-to-date conclusions and more conviction in the correctness and effectiveness of the recommendations made by the Commission. It is further useful that adherence to these documents ensures greater compliance with European legal rules and policies, which in itself is a step in the right direction from the point of view of avoiding or overcoming problems in national energy. As I have already mentioned, the Commission's working time has been extended several times. This fact, in combination with the period covering the analysis of the situation until 31 January 2015, to date largely compromises not only any of the conclusions but also the meaning of the activity as a whole. It should be noted that, at the moment, the environment of the energy sector, political and regulatory, has been substantially changed, making an up-to-date number of conclusions. For example, the report states that the prices of the TPP are BGN 201,71 respectively. And BGN 139,45. at the megawatt hour. Their values justify these prices to qualify as non-market and high. However, according to the Commission's current price decision on energy and water regulation (KEWRC) of 30 July 2015 the average prices of the two plants are BGN 147,27 respectively. And BGN 108,64. at a megawatt hour and they are lower than the average prices of renewables and highly efficient combined electricity. Honourable Members, this report is being dealt with at a European and national energy-specific time. The procedure for discussing and adopting a new market model at European level is under way. There will be radical changes in European legislation - Directive on energy efficiency, Directive on the promotion of RES energy, rules on an emissions trading scheme and others. At the same time, on an agenda in Bulgaria is the discussion, adoption and implementation of a new market model, which is being developed jointly with the World Bank. The preparation of a roadmap for full liberalisation, achieving more transparency and liquidity in the market, structural and corporate changes, adopting mechanisms to protect vulnerable energy consumers is expected. In this sense, much of the proposals contained in the report are inappropriate both in substance and in terms of time of supply. We should recognise that Members of the Temporary Commission have made huge efforts, examined and processed large volumes of specific information. The report would have won if it had been presented as an analytical part and referencing to documents or applications that, if desired, might be familiar with. Despite everything, it has become an occasion for another discussion on the state of energy in Bulgaria in the parliament, and personally for me the opportunity to ask once again for discussion and adoption of a long-term national energy strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u178	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsochev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Tsochev, I will disagree with the serious criticism of the report because in my opinion, the time that was provided and in which we worked cannot be enough to describe a complete picture of the state of energy. The capacity available to the Commission has been used, I assure you, 100%. We did what we could. You are probably right to reproach that some sections, that some parts of energy are not well represented, are not well analyzed, but the time we had at our disposal, we could do that. Yes, of course, we haven't paid much attention to coal mining, since we don't think there are any serious and dramatic problems there. That's what we thought. We haven't covered it in detail, even though it's affected. For the central heat output, the heat output is also marked. We didn't stop at it in detail. For nuclear and hydropower, I no longer agree. They have their place in the report. I dare say, I am well aware of the details, already here at the next moment, however, I will disagree with your findings and judgments regarding our view of TPP Maritsa East 1 and TPP Maritsa East 3 and the long-term contracts that have been concluded with them. There are few people in this room who will express an opinion as you have expressed that these are useful contracts, that they should not be suspended. I wonder what your opinion will be when the report of the European Commission comes out, in which I am sure that these contracts will be declared State aid and, God forbid we pay sanctions for allowing State aid? The focus on the global state that you believe should have been made and with corresponding references.Yes, this is also a form of presentation of the report. The papers are there. They're public, so anyone can look for them. It is true that the report was not made as a ranking report, in the sense of a reference to this document, a reference to this report, but I think it is not a great tragedy. Anyone who wishes can establish it. I'm finishing up after all, in order to analyze this information, it took a long time. Of course things are changing at this time, but I have another reproach on you, and I would like you to answer me as a specialist in the field, personally I have invited you to attend meetings of the Commission, you were not present, but you had a representative of your political power. You could use it to express your disagreements or guidelines to change our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Tsochev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u181	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Simeonov, you obviously misunderstand me. Your explanatory regime makes me look like an acquittal regime because you agree with what I'm doing as findings. As for the brands, you have not understood at all what I mean: why they were built, I will not repeat it and read it to you, but when you submit the bill, I will express my consent, provided that art. 107, not only the one you quoted, but also art. 105 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union allows for the notion of State aid and otherwise we will receive sanctions from the European Commission. In 2006, when Bulgaria entered the European Commission, it was required to notify these contracts. She didn't do it. At the moment, I have the entire file that is held inside the country and with the European Commission. I've been to meetings with Maros Šefčovitch. It is true that European bureaucracy acts slowly, but there is no institution in Bulgaria to determine whether it is state aid or not. If we unilaterally terminate these contracts in Parliament, 3 billion penalties await us from both plants. And that is why I stressed in my speech that it is not to close, but to pass on a market basis. There's a big difference between what I'm saying and what you think I'm a supporter of American power plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u182	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsochev. For speech there is the popular representative Valentin Nikolov, after him the MP Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I personally want to give a positive, high assessment of the Commission, because this Commission has been meeting almost every week and a lot of hours a day. Many people, many institutions, many companies, state, private, distribution companies, transmission companies were heard. There was a lot of work done. A huge amount of information was collected. Of course, a big problem is that the Commission did not have enough experts who can record which can summarize what we are submitting to them and finally we can actually manage to give our political attitude to the material and recommendations to the National Assembly, which it must take into account. This is where our job really sucked. The experts are good, bad, which Mr. Simeonov proposed to the Commission, have done a huge amount of work. That's what we had. If anyone can offer other experts, make them work for free, welcome, but no one proposed. We have to give what we deserve. Another is the question of what kind of evaluation will be given to this report. There are things that we really haven't started discussing inside yet, they've resurfaced, like, for example, Gorna Arda. We didn't discuss it at all, and then he showed up there. I can't assess what's on display. I've even given it here to some experts who deal with Gorna Arda, and there are a lot of remarks. I cannot agree with the findings that have been made in the report on what State aid is and what is not, because this is not the Commission's work. This is the work of the European Commission, we know very well, that is, we must wait. We can doubt, we can prepare different options if today the European Commission says that this is state aid. Yeah, maybe we should have made some action plans, but in no case do we have to pronounce what is state aid and what is not. For example, for renewables, we also expect some solution that we know the SEWRC then sent to the European Commission. There may be permissible State aid, so we cannot speak in negative terms about these renewables. We went through the Gas infrastructure conference in Europe for an hour today. There, in fact, it was emphasized that gas and renewable sources bring about positive changes that Europe needs to make in terms of climate, and this is one of the biggest obligations of the European Union, and it is leading in these policies, and it has led to the signatures that they made in Paris last year. So at least this report is some basis for things that can happen. During this report, concrete measures were even taken in the Law last year, which we adopted together at the end of July. Changes have been made in relation to these renewables, which were built under Measure 311/312, which, of course, we will now examine to see if we really do not damage them too much to go bankrupt all of them, but there have been abuses there anyway. There has been a notification from the European Commission on excessive, perhaps State aid, because they, using European funds, have failed to fulfil their obligation to give their declarations on this and have received high preferential prices. I would like to give my personal assessment in relation to the state of energy from what I have heard, from what I have understood, from my experience at the nuclear power plant and Kozloduy and as Chairman of the Board of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. I personally believe that our energy was not sufficiently prepared for these competitive conditions that the European Union has offered us and, accordingly, the directives that we had to implement in this market environment. I think that if Bulgaria had been able to protect the IV and V block of the NPP "Kozloduy" to work, as they have, in this case we would not have such a problem even with renewable sources, even with the TPP "Maritsa East 1" and the TPP "Maritsa East 3" because the current demand they were going to produce would be BGN 10 and not as it is on V and VI block, which is the lowest electricity produced on a base source, and there is currently between BGN 45 and 52. In III and IV block would be 10 leva. It would make up for all investments, even bad decisions, if you would, in Bulgarian energy and we would not have such a problem to protect and say what the state of energy is and what we should do. The truth is that when the competitive environment created such conditions, as for example created at the end of 2008 and 2009, as created in 2013, as currently 2015. The prices to go down, then the residual value in Bulgarian energy suddenly disappears, big losses begin to accumulate, such as at TPP Maritsa East 2 The truth is that in the National Electricity Company debts, as I said in the reply, accumulated between 2005 and 2009. The largest amount of debt on the basis of, of course, investment debts, in which there is no harm. Let there be investment provided that the business plan shows that they will return. However, 2009 the Bank Syndicate, headed by Pariba, what turned out to be? He raised almost twice the interest on the loans of the National Electric Company. Why? Because the financial situation of the National Electricity Company 2009 was badly deteriorated, and then it had to pay much higher interest rates for the loan it took back then. It turns out that the Tsankov Stone, which is estimated to be 200 million, suddenly went to a billion for 80 megawatts. Indeed, what is done is natural wealth, but these 80 megawatts can never restore the investment invested in them. We're not gonna talk about this being a very bad geology that's been done, and so on. Let's not go back to those moments. In addition to investment debt, the National Electricity Company has accumulated debt from bad decisions of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission 2014 only 800 million. lv. debt from a tariff deficit. It was made because of the decisions of the SEWRC, who knew very well then that their decisions would return as boomerang, that some of them were unconstitutional, and others could not normally be fulfilled. They took from TPP Maritsa East 1s and TPP Maritsa East 3s, split the price and said to the National Electricity Company: You will sell them on a free market and others enter into a regulated market. Yeah, but how would they sell these expensive prices on a free market if they didn't mix them with some cheap energy?! There's no way, and she's started making big deficits in 800 million, I say again, in just one year. Okay, she piled it up, bad decision. Yes, but the next decision of the SEWRC does not compensate for these losses, which is required to compensate them. Don't make up for it! Why? Because the SEWRC must also look at the social side of the issue. That means it has to boost the electricity of consumers and businesses. The electricity distribution companies because I heard some findings about how the government of Borisov 1 was guilty. I don't know what he's guilty of.! It's absolutely gross manipulation. 2004 privatized companies, signed contracts, given a large return, very large, in general for Europe unheard of. 2004! What is the fault of Borisov 1's government?! The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The report is here in the National Assembly, everyone can see and come up with very unpleasant things: the award of their companies, the so-called "in house" which were not allowed then in the Public Procurement Act, the award of their own companies, the export of capital. Only one of the ERPs found deposits of over 200 million. lv. Over 200 million. lv.! Acts were written for millions of levs of these companies. Unfortunately, they seem to have fallen in court. So I cannot understand what is responsible for the government of Borisov 1, that it has found and revealed these things that have happened from 2004 to 2010? And they're still going on now, but many times less that we've found. For renewables, I must say, because there have been charges. Yes, we found applications for 12,000 megawatts, but here it was not said that 4500 megawatts were contracts concluded with the National Electric Company for their construction, the so-called preliminary contracts. But there are no priors in legislation, they have contracts in general. These contracts bind both sides and we had to solve this problem in some way in the Energy Act. The main body of the Law does not allow any other contract to be concluded. The big problem was in the Transitional and Final Provisions of this Law because it had to decide how it would proceed with these contracts. That's why we were looking for options. We asked investors to make some guarantees, we were trying to give a price to Act 15. You know that from the Law on Alternative and Renewable Energy Sources, which was 2007, the price could not move by more than 5%. Absolutely right? More than 5%! And what would we have found in 2012? What was the price inherited from this Law? Now I'm going to quote you: BGN 728,29. The price the SEWRC could accept with this 5%. Note then that 2010 - 2011 decreased to BGN 689 because we have already changed the Law and give the SEWRC the opportunity to change the prices of renewable sources. In 2010 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) Is this how prices would go down if they were 5% different? Absolutely not. For the period 2011 to 2011, because then we allowed the SEWRC to look at the price quarterly, between March and June, then the price is already 237 BGN, and 2011 " 2012" the price is even lower. I absolutely disagree that this is a legacy of Borisov 1. Yeah, it's all the fault and the administration's fault. Everyone had heard of corruptions that were given in connection with the assignment of the land, with the convening at the same time of committees that accepted these renewable sources. Unfortunately, such a corrupt environment has been created. Can I ask for a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u184	You have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u185	I have a lot more to say. I want a procedure to extend the time to vote on the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u186	Are you done with your speech?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u187	No, I'm not done. I'm doing a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u188	After the speech you can do the procedure, but tell me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u189	I would like a procedure to extend the time to vote on the report by the Temporary Commission to establish the state of energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u190	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. Vote 89 MPs: 65, against 22, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u191	In fact, how has energy in Bulgaria been able to overcome all these periods, which I am talking about on a market situation and on an increase in the costs of NEK in relation to long-term contracts? The national energy has two sponsors - the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and "Bulgartransgaz." These are the biggest sponsors that have breathed energy in these years and continue to give it. Because the Kozloduy nuclear power plant based on the technology it has can have much more added value. In the regulated market it has a very distorted price in order to achieve sociality. At the moment it even gives electricity and electricity distribution companies 30 BGN. To buy in connection with the losses they have. However, this unfortunately distorts the market. It turned out that there was quite a lot of abuse and some companies, taking advantage of this energy, distorting the market and giving dumped prices on our market. This should also be noted and enshrined in the future changes to the Energy Act. They must be market prices at which losses of transmission and distribution companies are bought. I would say that the SEWRC is the biggest culprit for what is happening in the energy market over the years, because it has failed in no way to master, redeploy and balance our energy system. In 2012, there were bad proposals, in 2013 and 2014. Also, which led NEK to great losses. I can talk a lot more, but I'll bore the gym. I think this report could be much better, but because we have this one, I would say that this is a good foundation to work on and build on. I would even say that it can be developed in the Energy Commission, which will gather several times and make additions to this report, which will give much better foundations and situations for the development of energy in Bulgaria. Finally, Bulgaria needs a new strategy. This strategy ends in 2020. The strategy, which was adopted in 2010, is no longer up to date. We can see it can't be done because it wasn't done well. Maybe it looked like this for 2010, but it's not right to today's conditions. Therefore, a long-term strategy by 2050, based on the priorities that the state wants, on the basis that Bulgaria needs to build new capacities, because it replaces the old ones that will soon come out, whether because of competition on the market, or because of low efficiency, or because of the expiry of the deadline, but Bulgaria needs new capacities. And if in 10 years we ask ourselves why they're gone, it's all our fault. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u192	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Nikolov, it's a good thing you reminded us of the Third and Fourth Block. You just neglected to tell us who was the chief negotiator then.. Mrs. Kuneva, so that we can all know who it is. We said we'd talk names. As for the ERPs, you misunderstand me. I said that 2004 70% were privatized, but I mentioned that the government of Boyko Borisov 1 sold the remaining 30. That's what I meant. This is actually one of the ways in which the state is deprived of the ability to influence this action in some form. You understood me correctly in 2004, but you didn't understand me for 2010. And lastly, you are absolutely right about the fact that the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and "Bulgartransgaz" are the sponsors. You neglected to say that yesterday we put another state sponsor in the game to fix the private man's energy at the expense of the state when we bet their revenues by 5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u194	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Any other lines? I won't. A hole, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u195	Yeah, you're right, but I mean, those 30% didn't affect anyway. You know very well that contracts were made in such a way that there was no blocking quota. I would say that close to the ruling parties people stood in the Supervisory and Management Board. That's all those 30% did. Nothing else. The state didn't even get dividends. At least this is where you got some money. It didn't affect decisions or control. Control must be increased. I hope that the new Energy and Water Regulatory Commission will increase control over both ERPs and all players in the electricity and gas markets. I agree with something else that has not been said now by you, and in previous speeches, let us in this budget enable the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission to be supported by this financial resource and this capital to carry out those activities that we expect from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u196	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Please, Quaestors, invite your colleagues to the Chamber to vote. I'm putting it to the vote. Project! DECISION on the Activity Report of the Temporary Committee for Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Activity of the Temporary Committee for Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015 The draft decision has been submitted to the National Assembly with an introduction. No 653-65-1 on 22 April 2016 They voted 114 MPs: for 85, against 5, abstention 24. The report of the Temporary Committee for the Verification and Assessment of the State of Energy in the Republic of Bulgaria on 31 January 2015 was adopted. Parliamentary control messages on 10 June 2016: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer a question from the MP Krasimir Yankov. 2. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova will answer five questions from the MPs Willi Lilkov, Durhan Mustafa, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Svetla Bachvarova and Petar Slavov, and one question from the MP Mihail Mikov. 3. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer 11 questions from the MPs: Dzhevdet Chakarov, two questions, Nastimir Ananiev, Ivan Ivanov, Kiril Dobrev and Radoslav Stoychev, Filip Popov, Vasil Antonov, Emil Raynov, Slavi Binev and Nikolay Alexandrov, and one question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev. 4. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer a question from the MP Vasil Antonov. 5. The Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski will answer five questions from the MPs: Slavi Binev s two questions, Velizar Enchev, Dora Yankova and Rumen Gechev, and two questions from the MP Slavi Binev. 6. The Minister of Culture Vezdi Rashidov will answer six questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Slavi Binev, Stefan Danailov, Mariana Boyadjieva and Emil Raynov, Dimitar Delchev, Villas Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev. 7. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer 11 questions from the MPs: Philip Popov, Dimitar Delchev, Slavi Binev On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, of a question by the National Representative Radan Kanev, and a question with a written answer from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski and Petar Slavov, and three questions from the MPs Desislav Chukolov, Georgi Anastasov and Atanas Merdjanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva - Deputy Prime Minister for the European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to two questions from the MPs Vassil Antonov and Rumen Gechev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to two questions written by the MPs Vladislav Nikolov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to three questions with written answer from the National Representative Kiril Tsochev; - Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski of two questions....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Taneva to three questions with a written answer from the MPs Metodi Andreyev and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Willy Lilkov. In the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answers to a question shall be postponed from: - MP Borislav Iglev to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva; - MP Georgi Kovachev to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. In the absence of the country, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova and Justice Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to previous commitments, the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva and the Minister for Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to prior international commitments, the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski, Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov, Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova and Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to the time foreseen for today's plenary session, I close it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-09.u197	Tomorrow we will continue with draft decisions on changes in the permanent committees and delegations of the National Assembly. The next meeting is June 10th at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
