ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. I offer to your attention a program for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 17 February to 19 February 2016: 1. Project for a decision to vote distrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of his health policy. Importers: Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs from 11 February 2016 The vote on the Draft Decision, as you know, shall take place no earlier than 24 hours from the conclusion of the deliberations pursuant to art. 107, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. A little earlier today, at the Conference of Presidents, we agreed that the vote would be on Friday 9:00 a.m. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education. A joint project, based on the laws adopted at the first vote on 26 November 2015 with importers: first "Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, second Council of Ministers, third "Borislav Borisov" and fourth "Borislav Velikov" and Milen Mihov. 3. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers: Valentin Radev and a group of MPs. This is intended to be t. 1 for Thursday 18 February 2016 4. Selection of inspectors in the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council. The procedure of choice is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 18 September 2015. 5. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer: Economic Policy and Tourism Committee. 6. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. There's a couple of bills here. First "Instructions Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev," second. "Krassimir Velchev and a group of MPs," and third. "Peter Slavov." 7. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importers: Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism. Importer: Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015 9. The Draft Law on the ratification of Amendment No 1 of the Structural Programme Loan Agreement (Bulgaria, co-financing under the EU Funds 2007-2013) between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank. Importer: Council of Ministers. 10. Parliamentary control under art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Friday Please vote. Vote 169 MPs: 162 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure received a proposal from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov for inclusion in the weekly program of the National Assembly of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law for access and disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, submitted by Metodi Andreev, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. Before I give the floor to Mr. Slavov, who will defend his proposal, just to inform him that there are two other bills under the same Law that have not yet been viewed on committees. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! Indeed, we have been charged with the programme for the week, but I think it is an important bill that has been aged for quite some time in the National Assembly's Law. He went with a positive opinion through the committee responsible. It was introduced last year November and I think the requirements of the Rules have been met so that it can be seen in the Chamber. As far as other bills are concerned, they are much later imported, so perhaps they will have to wait for their respective order. The bill itself, in addition to proposing adjustments to some obvious gaps in the current so-called "files', will also enable this extremely important topic for new credit millionaires to be placed on the agenda and they to be checked for belonging to the former "State Security'. We're talking about these lists that the CCB Syndicates are pulling out and we're all asking ourselves: aren't some of these people the same people who drained the banks in 1996? I call on you to support it and thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u3	Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal to include this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u4	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u5	There is no procedure in this order, only presented, and you will vote on your position. Vote 168 MPs: 33, against 68, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 10 to 16 February 2016: Draft amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Project for a decision to vote on mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer: Mikhail Mikov and group of MPs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer: Valentin Radev and group of MPs. The Committee on Defence is the lead. A bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers: Miho Mihov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute for the fourth quarter of 2015 on gross domestic product, express estimates, average monthly salary and list of employees in employment and employment and information on consumer price indices for January 2016. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly in the fourth quarter of 2015. Procedure Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! I think it is unnecessary to justify the importance and public response to this. 1 and voting on a vote of mistrust to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria because of its health policy. Everyone in the Chamber is aware that this point concerns the health of all Bulgarian citizens, so I propose that the debates on it be broadcast directly on BNT and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u7	A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm voting on the procedural proposal. Vote 158 MPs: 59 against 31, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. Revoting, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u8	Thank you, Madam President. For us it is really not surprising and strange why the majority is hiding from the Bulgarian citizens, hiding from society, hiding from the cameras and microphones of the Bulgarian media. [[Noise and lines.]] Let them have the opportunity to show the achievements of this government, this government in terms of healthcare. Revoting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u9	It's a re-vote. Vote 166 MPs: 68, against 39, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. [[(Noise and lines, calls from BSP LB: Disgrace!]] Mr. Enchev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u10	Madam President, gentlemen and ministers, honourable Members! It became a regular practice for important votes in the National Assembly the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov to be absent. As I understand it, he will also be absent today, so I am proposing that the Prime Minister be invited to attend mandatory today. [[(Noise and lines, applause from BSP LB. Calling from the left: Bravo! Bravo!]] For the first time since the beginning of his term, there has been a vote of no confidence. He's bound to be here, so I don't think this proposal should even be discussed. I propose formally that we demand, insist, not ask the Prime Minister to be here, on this stand, and give answers to the questions that we will be asking him shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u11	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. I'll call after the debate begins, about the Prime Minister's presence, except for the cabinet members who are here. Dear Members of Parliament, I remind you that on 11 February 2016 a draft decision was adopted proposing that the forty-third National Assembly vote mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of his health policy. The proposal, together with the motivated draft decision, was submitted by 69 MPs from the parliamentary groups of BSP left Bulgaria. On the same day "February 11th, the materials are sent to you in electronic form of your e-mails. I remind the parliamentary groups of time distribution in relation to the application of art. 55, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. This is the lengthy time of the parliamentary groups: the parliamentary group of GERB has 40 minutes, the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria Until now, a written statement has been made by Mr. Lutvi Mestan. Total time according to art. 55, para. 2 of the Rules, it's 167 minutes. At this time, there is no time for importers to present the draft decision, as well as the time of the Minister of Health, who will answer, I hope, in the debate, to questions raised by MPs. On the agenda is the first item: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO VOICE THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OF THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF BULGARIA WITH THE MINISTER-FREE BORISOV FOR HIS HEALTH POLICY. The debate is open. There is an opportunity on behalf of the importers to present to us the draft decision and the reasons for the motion of distrust. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Instead of a reasonable and effective health reform, the current government, the ruling majority and the Minister of Health with a series of inappropriate, lobbying decisions created unprecedented chaos in Bulgarian healthcare. These are those changes to the Health Insurance Act that split the universal package into one with full access to medical services and additional ones. So we lost as a state one of our most valuable benefits in health care. Now we have close access to hospital medical care, because the clinical pathways are reduced from 311 to 265, of which in the basic package there are 195, three of which remain in the extra, and the rest are floating, that is, they will be moved to one, to the other, and many people will suffer from it. Another very important thing is that this violates the 100% solidarity of the Bulgarian health insurance system. This will lead to difficult and even limited access to health insurance. [[noise and lines]] , including discrimination on diagnoses, will form waiting lists, and hence will create prerequisites for corruption practices, unregulated payments and financial pressure on patients at different levels in the system. Therefore, with the signatures of five political forces, this bill was submitted to the Constitutional Court. The second pillar in the reform of Moskov were the amendments to the Law on Medical Institutions. The conclusion of contracts between the Cashier and the medical institutions will not be mandatory. A regulation of the Health Ministry is proposed for the criteria by which the Casa to choose which medical institutions to finance. The directors of regional health banks will decide by a point-by-point assessment which hospitals to conclude contracts with this year. The victims of all this will be the municipal hospitals. The provided National Health Card provides for bed cutting for active treatment from 38 334 to 35 316 or 3180 beds less. It remains unclear what will happen to the remaining over 16 000 beds, because if you look at the national statistics at the end of last year you will see that Bulgaria has 51 505 beds. Only, of course, the Minister hasn't noticed that. All the parameters that are laid down in the National Health Card are formally quantitative and poorly selected. There are no quality indicators for the activities. The implementation of the so provided National Health Card will lead to chaos and confusion in the provision of healthcare. The reduction and restructuring of beds itself means less intake of patients, and in combination with the divided basic and additional package means that patients will have less of the current choice and will be waiting, and possibly additional, more. The Minister offers restructuring of beds, especially surgical ones, but it is not clear what will happen to surgeons because they are living people, and without them there is no health care. It is unclear, for example, when we reduce by several hundred surgical beds and rename them as active treatment, whether surgeons will continue to treat for a long time. And all this is done when Bulgaria is one of the countries in the world where the payment from the pocket for medical services and medicines is the largest. According to the World Bank's report, the personal costs of health care in Bulgaria are 48.6% on a recommendation from the World Health Organization to be up to 20%. This high level of additional health payments significantly restricts the financial situation of the population, as a result of each year over 4% of the population is impoverished, and this Law, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, is given by us in the Constitutional Court. As a counterpoint of the above, we believe that at the heart of the regulatory regulation the patient should be placed with his health and health insurance interests, the patient should be interested in his treatment being of maximum quality, quickly feasible and easily available. This means a radically different and changed philosophy of health policy and regulation. The ambition of the government, especially the health minister, to end 2015 with zero deficits, posed severe problems in the sector. Last year's debt has been transferred to the Health Insurance Fund's budget for this year. The duties of state and municipal hospitals continue to increase and are currently nearly 500 million. [[Noise and lines.]] Only 11 out of 65 public hospitals are in good financial condition and have no obligations. 12 public hospitals are at a loss, in 18 companies the equity has fallen below the amount of the paid-up, in 22 public hospitals the accumulated debts exceed half of the capital and are in the process of decapitalisation. This policy of yours leads to a deterioration in the financial situation of state and municipal hospitals and from there to a reduction in the remuneration of medical employees working in them. [[Noise and lines.]] This leads to mass leaving of good specialists and entire teams of these hospitals attracted by better pay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u13	Mr. Boychev, excuse me for a moment. Colleagues, I ask you very much that we create normal conditions in this House so that the colleague who offers us the reasons for the vote can be heard. The noise is unimaginable. We don't hear him talking here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say that this policy of the government leads to a deterioration in the financial situation of state and municipal hospitals, and hence to a lower remuneration of the working medical staff in them. This, of course, leads to the leaving of many good specialists and entire teams from these hospitals attracted by better pay in large private hospitals who enjoy a more favorable attitude... [[Noise and lines. MPs are talking to Minister Vejdi Rashidov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u15	Stop reading, it's not a job!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u16	Mr. Rashidov, I apologize, take your place.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u17	These private hospitals, which enjoy far more favorable treatment than those in the sector.......................................................................................... The structure of expenditure in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund continues to deteriorate: extra-hospital assistance represents 20% of the costs; medicinal products, note 27% of the costs, and for hospital care, 47.8% of the costs, provided that this is the second budget of Minister Moskov, of this government, and given that from morning to evening it is explained to us that hospital care will be a priority and there will be five-hundred thousand more directions. How are they going to be there, with the Cashier's budget being voted by all of you as a ruling majority, and he's 2 million more for hospital care than last year?! But what makes an impression on this budget of the Health Insurance Fund? In 2015, when you again made the budget, the cost of medicinal products was 796 million. lv.; 2016 Your second budget of the Health Insurance Fund, the cost of medicinal products is 1 billion. 41 million. BGN, or that's 245 million more. And that's against the backdrop of all the talk here that we're listening to, about health control, and about someone serving all sorts of lobbying and corporate interests. Are we distributing these funds to health?! And where the restructuring of medical institutions takes place within the framework of your management, the result is exactly the opposite, without financial and legal justification, the merger of capital hospitals has led to an increase in administration, to an increase in their debts and an increase in their debts. Despite the health minister's requests that there are too many hospitals, 78 new authorisations were issued last year for the activities of 66 hospitals, 27 wards, 9 of which were opened in Sofia, and everything concerning drug policy during this period was linked to incompetence and failures. The amendments to the Regulation on the conditions, rules and arrangements for regulating medicinal products are presented as a care for people. Under the pretext of saving funds, people will actually be forced to pay extra if they want to stay on the same medication. The introduction of the so-called "price corridor" when reimbursing will result in at least 500 medicines dropping from the reimbursement list. Patients will be deprived of the appropriate medicines and forced to pay for them themselves. The reason is that producers will not be able to enter this price corridor, and that is given that we are the country with the lowest rate of drug reimbursement in the European Union. Apparently, frightened by the vote of mistrust and the severe blow to patients, the corresponding negative response to this, the minister decided to postpone the introduction of this measure from the beginning of next year. I recall that it was due to enter into force on 15 February 2016. Particularly severe and wide public response was the scandal with the illegal import of two vaccines from Turkey, intended for the immunization calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria. The health of Bulgarian children was at risk, immunoprophylaxis was violated, allowing delay or interruption of the immunization calendar. The Bulgarian parents' trust in the health policy of compulsory immunopization has been shaken irreparably, which has been built for decades. According to the Prosecutor General there is a violation of the import of these vaccines, one of them has proven to be dangerous to health content. Only this fact immediately requires the Minister of Health to resign. In addition to regulatory chaos and immediate management decisions and actions, we have seen a bunch of empty and unfulfilled ideas, loudly announced by the minister himself. One of Moskov's first promises was that from 1 January 2016 we will have an electronic health card. Obviously that didn't happen, but we're being offered a new concept. I would like to remind you that April of last year we were presented with the I.D. system for access control. You know the failure that this system has suffered, despite the millions that have been spent on this, but instead of punishing the culprits, Minister Moskov is currently offering us all, health-insured patients, to give fingerprints. Besides the risk of large-scale digital fraud, this will also lead to many other problems. Every doctor, every hospital will have to buy not only a scanner, but they will also have to buy biological controls, they have to buy custom software, they have to buy additional accessories, that is, another cost increase. Finally, I would like to conclude that the arrogant and arrogant behaviour of the Minister of Health, his unpardonable and populist style and incompetent governance have become possible thanks to the support of the ruling majority, the government and especially of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. Therefore today, any MP who supports our requests for a no-confidence vote will with his voice say stop to this insane and devastating health policy against the Bulgarian people [[the President signals that time has run out]] , a policy that destroys the solidarity of our health insurance system. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u18	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. The time determined to present the Project is over. The debate is open for discussion. Mr. Enchev goes first.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! As I understand it, the Prime Minister is not coming, but this is not news. It's news if he's here. First, I'm going to address Minister Moskov's insane idea of fingerprints. Obliging patients to enter pharmacies and hospitals through identification of fingers is an insolence that is without precedent and borders on a practice in the Third Reich. With the introduction of fingerprints as a means of identifying entering hospitals and pharmacies, the health minister informs Bulgarian patients that they are crooks. [[Noise and lines. Awesome.]] Not the sick, Mr. Minister, write the cost acquittal papers, and not the sick drain the Health Insurance Fund. However, I ask: to whom should fingerprints be taken from the sick, from the patients or from the merchants? I'm convinced that if you have to take fingerprints, it's from traders who are a real mafia, and it's a public secret. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]] The patient organizations warned you that they would refer to the court about your idea of fingerprint identifiers, even more important from the legal point of view of the decision to implement them was taken by an illegally positioned Supervisory Board of the Health Insurance Fund, as there was only one advisor to the Minister, to you, and four representatives of the state. Speaking of discrimination against patients, I come to the lies of Minister Moskov, and documented lies. In the midst of the vaccine scandal, firstly, he said that he needed 100,000 vaccines against hepatitis B, but, I quote, because they did not comply with the Bulgarian legislation, these vaccines were for refugees. But a reference from the Agency for Refugees shows that in our country there are only 280 children of refugees - the first lie, which means, again, the minister is lying. In response to a parliamentary question about the export of vaccines BCJ against tuberculosis from Bulgaria to Turkey, Minister Moskov said, quote: Later it was established that such exports existed. Dear colleagues, we are talking here about written lies two lies! A minister who is publicly lying must either resign or be dismissed from this parliament. I'll take the second one! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u20	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u21	Are there any lines for Mr. Enchev? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The first vote of distrust of the cabinet Borisov 2 is because of the failure of the health policy. Which is why I will specifically address Mr. Minister Moskov. [[Mister Moskov is leaving the hall. Replies from BSP LB:? Gone, gone.]] Dear Mr. Reformer, product-positioned representative of the ruling opposition in the executive power...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u23	Mr. Ademov, excuse me for interrupting. Now I know from colleagues in the Chamber that Minister Moskov has left. The Quaestors, please invite the minister to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u24	Fifteen months after the beginning of the term of office your sense of non-alternativeness and self-sufficientness has conquered both the mandate carrier GERB and the supporting cabinet parties, we think is counterproductive for both patients and Bulgarian doctors. By your actions you have led the health system to unimaginable chaos with unpredictable consequences. In biblical style, I am the way, truth and life, you impose solutions that lead to the replacement of the health insurance model with model centralization, holding and authoritarian command-administrative management style. Instead of health objectives and concrete measures and steps to achieve them, you are seeking to adapt hospital infrastructure and objective health needs to the available financial resource. [[Mister Moskov enters the room.]] In your speech, Mr. Minister of the opposition, but an international study of European health systems according to more than 100 indicators for 2015 gives Bulgaria a jump from 29 to the unenviable 32 place. We're only in the same position from the last place for a year of your reign. Another quote, this time from the Bulgarian media: Bulgaria shuddered from Moskov's health card. Don't touch the hospitals! These are part of your team's external assessments. Dear colleagues, the analysis of the opposition's vote Mr. Moskov did during the prism of the last few years. Yes, we have done obviously not a little, but obviously not enough. That's what we've done, that's what we've done. That's why we got a different assessment from the voter. You are now on the move. " - Unfortunately, you have not managed for 15 months, and instead of seeking a higher level of agreement, you should offer insulting qualifications to the opposition and to anyone who disagrees with your ideas. The main questions that lie in this Chamber today are the following. First of all, do you think that the National Health Card takes the fundamental rights of Bulgarian patients and doctors and focuses power in the hands of the administration? Isn't it hidden behind the words "structuring" and "optimization of beds" the use of medical activities? Why did you issue 76 permits for new activities in 2015 to 66 hospitals? Probably to have something to close down now. Secondly, do you not believe that the National Health Card by reducing the number of service providers restricts competition between medical institutions, and this circumstance leads to low quality and higher prices, but at a fixed cash price, the door for additional payments is wide open? Thirdly, why did you practically ban private investment in healthcare by law? Why did you introduce a firm limit with Decree No 57 of the Council of Ministers? By what criteria have you paid off the preliminary hospitals, despite the incantations that there is no such concept? In fourth place, don't you think that the draft order for complex medical care for oncological patients will lead to the closure of multiple beds and hospitals that do not meet the criteria? Complex care, in our opinion, is not a question of beds, building and territories, but rather a question of organisation. Fifthly, when the Movement for Rights and Freedoms proposed that in the course of the budgetary procedure the money for extra-hospital assistance should be increased, the government said it was populism. Now on the eve of negotiations on the new framework contract, Minister Moskov generously promised 40 million to the management of the Bulgarian Medical Union and 8 million to the Bulgarian Dental Union. Is this the agreed price achieved in the negotiation for the signing of the National Framework Treaty? A principled position or a guilty conscience? Answer this question clearly, Minister. Dividing diseases into two packages - basic and additional - is a real challenge to solidarity. A person who does not suffer from socially significant diseases immediately loses motivation to provide real income. This is a real provocation to a sense of justice. The frontal clash between supersolidarity and the damaged sense of lack of justice disrupts the trust in the system. And without trust, the breakdown of health insurance is certain. There have been several duties that have been firmly imposed over the past few years. First of all, there's no money or they're not enough. Dear colleagues, the truth is that in 2000 public health money was 1 billion. 200 million. lv. In these public funds, the overall mortality rate was 14 million. Now, in 2016 the public money in the sector is nearly 4 billion and last year the total mortality is 15 million. The issue of effective use of personal financial resources remains open and unfortunately what is offered to us is the pursuit of only fiscal objectives. The next myth is that municipal hospitals do not have high quality activities, so let us raise their criteria and thus force them to be converted into hospitals for healing and long-term treatment. These hospitals use only about 15% of the hospital's resources and serve nearly 2.5 million Bulgarian citizens. What alternative do you propose for them to shut themselves down or become medical institutions with calming functions? It is no accident today that the National Association of Municipal Hospitals comes out with a declaration saying in a loud voice: The next myth we make deep, meaningful, with clear priorities and goals reform. In our opinion, there is no reform. There is an imitation of reform, with a gigantic manipulation of public opinion. The National Health Insurance Fund is a monopoly. Medical establishments are commercial companies. Bulgarian doctors are sole traders. Hospital duties are now up to 500 million. Where's the change, ladies and gentlemen?! You point your finger at the culprit. By definition, it's the opposition, then it's an uncle doctor who took a previous oath and a Hippocratic oath, signs cases, siphons the cassa, steals all the time, disputes about money. So far, there's a problem. The usual suspects are also mentioned, only the roles have been reversed. The government is white and the opposition is the necessary culprit. Unfortunately, as a result, Bulgarian patients suffer. Is there a way out of this situation? That is the most important question today. There is, and he's going through some serious adjustments to the wrong policy. We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have the self-confidence to state and propose an alternative policy - a new different matrix, a new approach and new solutions, namely: the demonopolisation of the National Health Insurance Fund and the widespread overlap of the right to free choice of the patient; competition between both the financing bodies and between the health institutions; more market relations based on demand and supply; alternative sources of funding; effective use of available financial resources and achieving health objectives. Dear colleagues, healthcare is a kind of melody played by an orchestra. The solo performances here always sound fake. This policy is made only with trust and love, not with a broad smile. The language of hatred and the unpardonable authoritarian style very quickly turn anyone tempted into a curse for native health care. It is your right to listen or not to our recommendations. The choice and responsibility are yours! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u25	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u26	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear colleagues of the opposition, good morning! We're so glad we woke you up. [[Replying and shouting from BSP LB.]] This parliament, with the most difficult majority so far in our most recent democratic history, has also proved to be the parliament in which for the longest time there was no vote of mistrust tabled for one simple reason. Now that you've seen that there's an alternative, you've woken up and that's great news. The bad news is your motives aren't working and you won't be touching anyone with them. Here I would like to conclude very briefly the intrigue with the participation of the CBI in this vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u27	And in political life!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u28	The attacks on right-wing ministers in this government, which are few anyway, do not seek our support at all. If you want to attack right-wing ministers, look for the people who in this Parliament are declared balancemakers. If you want to direct the policy of the state to the left, this is done through the balancer, not through the right. By the way, you have proven that you work wonderfully together when you want to stop reforms. You managed to remove Hristo Ivanov together. If you want to remove Moskov, you will have to do it together with us, not with GERB. Colleagues from the DPS, I understand you're suffering for the role of the balancer. But in politics sometimes it's like that. Sometimes the student...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u29	The theme is health care! [[Replications from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u30	Sometimes the student surpasses his teacher! In politics and theater, this thing happens a lot. What you're doing today is a theater that's trying to cloud something else entirely. It is a wreath of three weeks' efforts to suppress the disastrous results of the failure of judicial reform together. This is not gonna work, and this theater is boring. Don't look for support from us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u31	First line, Mr. Mikov, second line, Mr. Ermenkov. First line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable MPs! Dear Mr. Kanev, you must have dreamt in a dream that someone was looking for support from you. We are aware that you have brought, you are also accomplices in this health situation. That's why we didn't invite you to participate. Don't you live with the feeling that someone is inviting you. You are a clear part of the disastrous health policy of this government of Boyko Borisov. So no matter what you say, no one invites you! Whatever you say to people, you will hardly be recognized as opposition when you support this government. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u33	Second line? Here you are, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u34	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kanev, what was the point of your entire conversation now? What did you mean by that? What exactly are we doing at GERB? We're working anti-health because we support your minister?! [[Private applause from GERB.]] Did you hear what you said? This no-confidence vote is the result of your actions, because you have gone out into the opposition, you have left your minister. He was a political orphan, no one to protect him for you. [[(Replications. Announcements by BSP LB and DPS: Bravo!]] And we're here to protect him! [[Replications, noise, shouting from BSP LB and DPS.]] This policy is not GERB! It's not GERB's policy! We're a support party. He will finally fit into your story thanks to our support. Is that what we expect from you?! Come on, gather your deputies and I want to hear who and how will protect Minister Moskov here. You shouldn't say that. You should not campaign for president, for mayor, for municipal councillor, for whatever you want on the back of Bulgarian healthcare. Sorry, it was supposed to be a technical conversation today. Some truths had to be told to Dr. Moskov by GERB in order for the reform of health care to go in the right direction. The guy's got energy, he's loaded, and he wants to make a reform. [[(Shouting.) A line from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.)]] Not like your ministry, you've been running around all year just urban and you haven't done anything. There may be mistakes, there may be fouls, but at least there's going in some direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u35	Third line, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Dear Mr. Kanev, ladies and gentlemen! I don't understand why you took the floor in support of Mr. Semir Abu Melih speaking, and I'm making a line for you, Mr. Kanev. You should be grateful, you should worship the political party GERB. She's your rocket carrier you're in power with. I do not understand, do you not understand the simple, simple fact that at this moment Minister Moskov stands not because of any meaningful, meaningful arguments concerning his expertise, his potential to make reforms. No! The simple reason is that he is patronized by Mr. Boyko Borisov and because of some structural, design problems of the current coalition is also a minister. Do you have any doubt about that?! But when the Prime Minister's protective hand falls from his head, he goes away! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u37	A hole, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u38	Hello, Mr. Kanev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u39	Good morning indeed! Mr. Mikov, do you allow me to answer that question? If I may, thank you for saying from the stand that with this vote you have no intention of overthrowing the government. It's nice to hear it directly. That's why I told you it was a theater and it was a weak theater. So I have nothing more to comment on. Mr. Abu Melih, I was talking to DPS and BSP, I don't know why you're on fire. [[Replices, cheers by GERB.]] I didn't understand the emotion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u40	You said GERB!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u41	I told them to look if they wanted to bring down ministers, to seek the support of GERB to them. You guys got a little excited because I mentioned a previous case.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u42	Because you're insolent! [[Radio, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u43	Please, don't say such lines from the place! Control your emotions, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u44	Otherwise it is a fact that Mr. Abu Melih and Mr. Kardzhaliev spoke the same words in their lines. As Dr. Kardzhaliev rightly pointed out, this is a fact. They talked about some problems in the majority around the support of Minister Moskov. Colleagues from GERB and DPS, solve your problems in the majority of each other. You're the majority. [[Voices from GERB: "E, e, e! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u45	You're very original!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u46	Mr. Ermenkov, the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u47	Dear Madam President, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, colleagues! Today, we have an extremely important topic that we are discussing, and I very much ask the leadership of the National Assembly to lead the dispute so that it is oriented and limited only on the subject that we are discussing at the moment. Any voluntary performances such as an attempt at self-confirmation, an attempt at self-publicization, an attempt at exiting from schizophrenic states, let them do them outside the parliamentary hall; let the colleagues not use the parliamentary tribune. Because sometimes the bad irony turns into a farce, and the one who tries to make this farce turns into a clown. This isn't the place for a circus here today. Madam President, I ask you very much that things be oriented towards discussing the reasons for the vote of no confidence. If anyone has anything to say about it or against it, go out and say it. The other is from the Evil One, as they say, and exposes the man himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u48	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. You are right that the debate should be about the point that is currently being considered in plenary. But put yourself in my place and the inconvenience I feel towards the leadership of parliamentary groups to remind you that we should not deviate from the topic of the debate and talk about common political speeches. I call on the Members of the National Assembly to stick to the topic of the debate, as well as to ensure a normal atmosphere in the Chamber for its implementation. The word for speech is Mr. Lutvi Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members, this vote of mistrust should have been debated perhaps more than a year ago when we witnessed an unacceptable, unacceptable, judgmental language of hatred by Minister Moskov against a part of the Bulgarian nation of Roma. This initiative did not then meet support. Today, however, it must be said once again: if a government has not stepped on a democratic basis, it cannot be expected to be democratic reforms in any particular social sphere. We will support the submitted Project for Distrust of the Cabinet Borisov 2, not necessarily because of the motives of the product of more than a month of labor, but because of a much more important consideration. Dear Minister, after DSB's release, I will repeat this thesis: this government has lost its moral political legitimacy. Today, however, after the position of the leader of the DSB, this finding sounds a little strange because being against all the other ministers in one cabinet and supporting only one is a new political phenomenon, which is weak to define as postmodern. Maybe it's more of a post-modern political product. There was a very strong force in the main thesis of the DSB that this government does not boil down to the abbreviations GERB, Reformation Bloc (RB), Patriotic Front (PF) and ABB that others are the trustees of government. However, after today's position of colleagues from the DSB, the political power and charge of their exit into opposition, unfortunately, has already been lost. It doesn't matter. In my opinion, you are faced with a very difficult, personal political choice whether you will be part of a government over which there are grave doubts that others are its trustees, that this is just a front behind which is the true power in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u50	Any lines to Mr. Mestan? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, I absolutely agree with Mrs. Tsacheva that this debate should be conducted on the ground. It is for this reason that I would like to remind you that, in fact, we are all here in this room in the first place patients. In my hand I hold two documents - one is the motion for mistrust and the reasons for it, and the other is the World Bank Report, which is part of the reason for the vote of mistrust. [[Shows both documents.]] I shall begin, honourable Members, with one sentence of the reasoning in which the following is stated: The personal health costs in Bulgaria, according to the latest World Bank report, are 48.6%. I am reading the same report by the World Bank, which is verbatim, to make it clear to both the media and to you, honourable Members. As expected, the high share of own-fund payments limits the financial protection provided by the system. In 2007, I repeat, in 2007, own-fund payments accounted for an average of almost 6% of household expenditure. If own funds payments exceed 10% of household expenditure, they are considered disastrous. In Bulgaria, such catastrophic costs occur in 20% of households. The management of BSP, DPS and NDSV. I mean, in your motives, colleagues, you point out data that actually concerns your management, but that's not the point. The important thing, honourable Members, is that the reasons set out two basic laws, which we were obliged to adopt as early as the beginning of 2015. The first Health Insurance Act, which should have been adopted as early as February, but, as a member of the Health Commission, I declare that this Law in the same Commission has repeatedly been tainted precisely by colleagues from the BSP and the DPS, which made its adoption possible only in June. I mean, a few months later. The reasons say that it is limited access to healthcare of Bulgarian citizens. Yes, that access was restricted due to your deliberate blaming of the Health Insurance Act. After the Law was passed, the facts are clear and accurate. In just six months, thanks to the amendments we have introduced in it, I dare say that there is a major role in these texts, namely the Patriot Front Group, we have given 200 thousand opportunity. Bulgarian citizens to restore their health insurance rights. Repeat, 200,000. Bulgarian citizens, who were actually excluded from the healthcare system precisely thanks to you.. the contributors of this vote of mistrust. Minister Goranov is here, if he can confirm whether these data I'm saying... [[Mister Goranov is absent from the hall.]] He's gone. He'll confirm them later.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u52	Please also address the relevant minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u53	That's on the subject. Next, which is affected precisely in this World Bank Report, and it is a limitation of payments for an outstanding volume of activities. Why were you blaming the Health Insurance Act? Because there was a very substantial amendment in it, and it was that we no longer give the Health Insurance Fund to pay for activities that were not carried out, but to purchase these activities. That is, it can exercise control over the expenditure of the money imported by all Bulgarian citizens. Of course, it doesn't like it, because it's very easy to say that the cassa doesn't drain, but it drains for years. The first thing we had to do when the Bulgarian Parliament was formed is to vote on another increase in funds to cover the deficit of the National Health Insurance Fund. The then governor of this casa would raise his hands and say, "Well, that's the law, I have nothing to do with it." Yeah, he was, but he's not anymore, and that's why this Cassa for the first time in years ends with a zero deficit. As far as the so-called old liabilities are concerned, these are some kind of liabilities that are accumulated under a completely different scheme, and I think they are at least 10 years behind. In order not to be very wordy, I think it is appropriate that each statement rests on facts and circumstances. It is important to note that for the first time, we have imposed precise and clear control of drug policy. It is the World Bank and its report that the use of generics should be introduced to Bulgaria as much as possible, i.e. medicines that are no different from the original ones with a small but important feature, and it is that they are many times cheaper than the original ones. What, of course, is not liked by those who are directly related to the draining of the cassata and, of course, when you clog these holes, called the draining of the cassata, you can't help but encounter resistance because it is paid for with the stolen money from the Bulgarian taxpayers, by the Bulgarian citizens. That's the truth. Everything else is fairy tales in the field of Alice in Wonderland and are, unfortunately, untenable and uncorruptible of arguments. The position of the Patriotic Front for this no-confidence vote will be expressed by the chairman of the parliamentary group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u54	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Replies to Mr. Bayraktarov's statement? Here you go. [[Reply from the National Representative Velizar Enchev.]] We need to finish the line-and-dent procedure, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Alexandrov the first line of the speech of the honourable MP Mr. Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Mr. Bayraktarov, I'm giving you a line on this. The first is: if memory serves, the NHIF budget for this year transfers a deficit from last year. [[Heckling]] So correct me if I'm wrong, from previous years it's been so that the NHIF covered them in the current year. The other thing is: health money is constantly increasing if I'm not wrong again. And to correct what you say as a report from the World Bank. It says: personal expenses for health. The high percentage of personal health costs is precisely from VAT on medicines. In general, we had such a proposal to drop VAT, which you did not support. There is one that, as I understand it, the government is preparing right now. Please come out and you tell me how you're going to vote. It is clear to me that you will vote to keep the cabinet. I'm pretty clear that you're trying to suck up some stuff based on statistics, but look at the statistics again. Yeah, 20% of people can't cover their expenses, but the big costs are for drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u56	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Second line? I don't see anyone who wants to. It's a hole. You have the floor, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Alexandrov, I will start from the back to the back to your reply. You had introduced the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act, however, there was one major problem in your Bill. This problem is that you did not really understand what you want to reduce VAT. I'll remind you to understand, and you can read it. [[Replication by National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov.]] In the Bill you had written: a reduction of VAT to.. pay attention, colleagues.................................................................................................. That's what you wrote in your bill. [[Replication by National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov. Noise and lines. Awesome.]] I'm sorry, but what kind of a fucked-up bill would a normal person support? What kind of normal person if you don't know what you want yourself. Yes, one of the latest recommendations of the World Bank is to reduce VAT on medicinal products and we will support but a meaningful bill in this direction. That's the difference between you and me. As to whether you are wrong about transferring a deficit from a previous year to the present year: yes, you are wrong. Moreover, you have not even bothered to get acquainted with the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, which, unfortunately, is your problem, because in most cases the Parliamentary Group of the Party It is absent, which shows that the deficit of information on main topics is particularly large, but this is not my problem, this is your problem. If I have to give you any details of this budget, I'll let you know. First, a drastic increase in the medication for the cancer patients. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, something that happens for the Secondly, a much better financing of the municipal hospitals, I repeat, precisely of municipal hospitals and even better financing and tightening of control over the costs of public hospitals. Something that happened for the first time since, when you ruled, your Minister of Health usually spent time on the beach in Pomorie. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u58	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Enchev, in the manner of conduct. I hope this isn't a tactical whim to buy time, but to get to the point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u59	Not at all, Mr. Chairman. Just an hour ago, I made a procedural proposal before the parliament's leadership, in the face of Mrs. Tsacheva, here in the parliament to be Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov. Until now, you as chairman and, of course, not only you, Mrs. Tsacheva, have not answered the question: have they spoken to Mr. Borisov, what has he answered and does Mr. Borisov know that Bulgaria is parliamentary and not a prime minister's republic? A person who violates parliamentaryism and does not appear at any vote in this Parliament....... whether for the 16 billion debt, whether for the panel affair of 1 billion, whether for the concession of the Bulgarian sky, whether for the vote of no confidence, is a person who is afraid and a coward!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u60	We get it, we get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u61	This is the Bulgarian Prime Minister who tramples Parliamentaryism and is not in this Chamber again, and you are all here on the right side of the Chamber silent and accepting this abnormal behavior of the Bulgarian Prime Minister and suppressing parliamentaryism with your passiveness! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u62	Mr. Enchev, you have made this proposal, respectively the National Assembly's leadership is committed to informing the Prime Minister and this is probably already done. There's nothing else I can say. In the manner of holding Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I appeal to you when there are MPs who, from this platform during the debate, are misleading not only the people's representation, but they are misleading everyone who will then look at the materials, including the reporters, and willfully, be able to interrupt them. It is also about my speech, Mr. Bayraktarov, about the Bill, because I can personally show it to you and thus show you, Mr. Bayraktarov, who is following the bills in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u64	I understand, Mr. Alexandrov. I'll try hell of a hock, as they say, on the move to make inquiries and commit myself to whether the information is correct or false. You realize that's hard to do. Thanks, though. Third Member of the National Assembly in the manner of conduct. It became a little like an induced process. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u65	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but I can't help but notice when the MP is addressing the Prime Minister with obscene words. You still have to make a note. This is also written in the Rules of Procedure and please monitor the language of the Members of the National Assembly. When they want to address the National Assembly and make any proposal, do so in the appropriate and appropriate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u66	You're right, Mr. Georgiev. I have to watch the language, and I will. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will really sanction anyone who uses obscene or unpleasant expressions. Any further comments? [[Reply from BSP LB: "There was no obscene! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u67	I warned you from now on. Any further speeches, fellow Members? Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I take the floor of speech to express the position of the Patriotic Front, and it will be that we will not support proposals for a vote of mistrust, even less in terms of health policy, which we believe is one of the most successful in the past year of this government's governance. I would strongly disagree with the ongoing attempts to manipulate public opinion by suggesting false ones to false accusations and blatant slanders. I don't think this is the civilised and convincing way of achieving the corresponding effect of such a vote of distrust. I have always believed that the National Assembly is a place for discussion, a place for seeking the truth and for finding solutions useful to the whole society. [[Noise on the left side of the room.]] Everything else is... Excuse me, may I have your attention?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u69	Quiet, please! Left side of the room, please be quiet, Mr. Alexandrov! Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u70	When I pointed out that there were some who bordered to a certain extent on the lie, not to say with slander, I would refer to the reasons put forward by the request of the importers. I think it is manipulated by taking occasion from Mr. Bajraktarov's statements with personal expenses for health. These costs are included for information of those who have written the reasons and the expenses of the Red Cross, the expenses of the Bulgarian Christmas....................................... the costs of the Red Cross.................. the costs of the Bulgarian Christmas................................................................................................................................................................................... Not to mention how much he answers the truth is also a question. Not everything that comes from Europe must be taken as an exact number and as a pure coin. On the other hand, somehow we do not pay attention to the fact that our... management of... actually the activities of this National Assembly began exactly with the vote on 100 million. lv. shortage in the Health Insurance Fund, accumulated right during the time of Oresharski. One hundred million. BGN, which formed a total deficit for 2014 about 400 million. I repeat what the tribune said to remember and understand, to understand. The health fund enters without deficit in 2016. There are obligations that are in relation to other countries, old debts accumulated by other governments. The Health Insurance Fund itself enters without any deficit, which is extremely indicative and important mostly for the state budget. Also, the ministry's current leadership managed to achieve 10% tax on drug manufacturers, thereby exerting the necessary pressure to reduce medicines and, accordingly, to restore the system as a whole. We also have a reduction in hospital duties. It's not true what you're saying they've grown. The commitment for 2014 is 29 million, for 2015. 13 million, including loans. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that so far there are no closed hospitals and there will not be, because this is another thesis with which it speculates extremely irresponsiblely. It's bad when these things are said by people who are from the health care system, respected doctors and specialists. I welcome the opposition's right to demand a vote of no confidence because it always has a corresponding healthy effect, but I would love it if the argumentation and the motives would be much better prepared and rest on facts. Finally, when a political force asked for a vote of no confidence and this political power, in a coalition with two other seemingly opposing parties, namely DPS and Attack, had failed health policy, I do not know with what eyes this political force raises the question of a vote of no confidence. As fashionable as it is these days, why don't you see yourself in the mirror? And you know who you're gonna see, this lady who's standing upstairs, Tanya Andreeva. Perhaps the most unsuccessful example of the Minister of Health. Just make the comparison Tanya Andreeva. "Peter Moskov; Tanya Andreeva "Peter Moskov! There's no comparison, I'm sorry! [[(Reply on the left:) There is no room for speech! Claps by RB and single applause by GERB.)]] The patriotic front will not support the no-confidence vote, as I said, just from the point of view of the reasoned considerations, not political campaigning. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u71	I didn't hear any arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u72	Any lines to Mr. Simeonov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The public debate on the health system is needed especially today when we are all aware of the relationship between the health system, health and economic growth of the state. In recent years, this debate in Europe has dominated concern over the system's ability to support the growing price squeeze. The economic crisis has further intensified this concern. In order to find a way out of this situation, all European countries are looking for an appropriate health reform to ensure better health and make health expenditure proportionate to the growth of the economy. Whether we have found the right way for such a reform, this is the question of the vote of mistrust of today's debate. We carefully examined the motives of the importers for voting on the vote of mistrust of the Council of Ministers. Trust does not need evidence, but we think the opposite is even more powerful. Disbelief must be supported by evidence. First of all, we think the motives are too common and that makes them difficult to prove. From the very beginning there is talk of chaos in the field, limiting citizens to access health care. We are also worried about this problem. Yeah, it sounds pretty serious, but they're not following evidence right now. There is talk of discrimination against patients in terms of health contributions in relation to the division of the package of services to a basic and additional one. However, by this logic discrimination can also be sought in the current differences in the health contributions of the insured. We have supported the voters in the part about splitting a basic and additional package. It is said that the waiting list will create corrupt practices, but this is also an assumption. They're all concerned about both the patients and the word. But we'll see this after April 1, 2016. In our opinion, we are also overly concerned that the introduction of the Health Card will lead to cuts in beds, wards and hospitals. The health card is expected to be a tool for strategic planning of health managers, will give predictability to the system and can be an appropriate regulator to limit the uncontrolled disclosure of medical institutions and accordingly increase the burden of the Health Insurance Fund. Of course, it is very important exactly how this instrument will be used in the future. There is a discussion on the National Health Card at the moment. In the Committee on Health Minister Moskov assured us that areas where there are problems will be dealt with immediately by the National Commission and there will be a solution. So here we have guesses again. Secondly, as everyone knows, basic health laws have been amended in the last year "The Insurance Act, the Health Insurance Act, and in the coming months, important regulations on their implementation are also expected to come into force. This will give a real start to healthcare reforms and will be able to take into account the first results. We consider that in this regard the timing of this vote is inappropriate because it is very difficult to rule on these results based only on hypotheses and conjectures. Yeah, the regulations are really late. Thirdly, we believe that there are important problems of our health policy that are worth talking about beyond the motives. As defined by the World Health Organisation, the health system can be defined as the complex of activities whose primary purpose is to promote, restore and maintain health. It can easily be seen that the rewards in certain clinics and specialties are much lower and with a huge difference in individual specialties and clinics. There's a lot of problems. We've repeatedly put them on the Health Commission. Here I just want to point out that the debate on vaccines missed the problem of recommended immunizations. In this regard, we are in line here in the European Union, especially with regard to influenza immunisation. There is a standstill in the fight against smoking, and we are first in Europe on cardiovascular diseases. The public health tax project is an inconclusive improvisation, but the regulation of artificial trans fats remains an open question. Our overall health promotion is undeservedly forgotten and is not at European level. I would like to point out that without relevant public health reforms, we will not have a real health policy. There is a huge potential for prevention and therefore better health, less ill and lowering the financial burden of the health system. We expect the Ministry of Health to take the necessary action to enhance public health in its health policy. Municipal healthcare is being tested, and it is an integral part of the healthcare system. There is no adequate funding, modern equipment and there is a growing deficit of medical personnel. We have a proposal for legal changes allowing the financing of municipal hospitals from the municipal budget, and we hope, colleagues, to your support. The problem, as I said, with low medical salaries, especially young people, which demotivates them and leaves the country, is also a big problem. It not only disincentives them, but also, by definition, enhances corruption. Minister Moskov has repeatedly promised active action in this direction, but for now this remains only a good wish. Drug policy also requires reforms. We continue to pay too high prices for medicinal products, but we do not see a strategic line of the Ministry for Counteraction. I would like to stress at the same time that all these problems are of long history and we do not expect them to be solved at this time, but they must become the priority of the Ministry of Health. Finally, but not least, we must look ahead. The party "Bulgarian Center of Democracy" has always placed stability in parliament and in the government in the first place. Because reforms require stability and predictability. Because early elections mean a loss of social time, a risk to stability and an additional blow to our economy. For all these listed reasons and despite our enormous reservations and criticism of the health policy of the Ministry of Health, we will abstain from this vote. We expect the Ministry of Health to gather determination and activate its activities in terms of more expertise and transparency to continue the necessary reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u74	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kovachka. Are there any lines to that statement? I won't. Anyone else willing to take the floor? People's representative Georgi Kuchukov has a floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers Gentlemen, colleagues! Every vote of mistrust is a political act and this, in turn, implies political speaking. However, based on the fact that the no-confidence vote is in the field of health, which is vital to every citizen, I thought there would also be professional talk here. Unfortunately, with the exception of the last speech, all speeches so far, I have described them as purely political and not those that contribute to improving the health system. I will try in my speech to approach purely professionally, however boring it may be for people who are far away from this system. The problems in our health care started from the conception of this healthcare system since 1999. It has been made with many mistakes, with many misconceptions and which has been made despite the warnings of a number of specialists, mostly from Germany, who directly told us: "You are going from where we return. This sinful conception system also led to subsequent malformations, which are increasing each year. First of all, this system has made us merchants, and with its development, it has made us merchants. In addition, we have liquidated the existing poor hospital care system without suggesting anything better. On the contrary, we offered something much worse. This discussion is a good reason to hear different opinions, and I still hope that the opinions of people who are actually in the system will be heard, because many of the previous speeches have been made by people who do not understand it. With the leadership of the Ministry, we all welcomed Minister Moskov's wish to make reforms. We also now welcome the desire to make changes, although the word "reforms" already seems to have lost its appeal to people. In this regard, however, we believe that there are several shortcomings. Firstly, there is no global vision of how far we want to go with these changes. Secondly, there is no preliminary assessment of the expected effect of the changes. And thirdly, there is no broad discussion of the envisaged changes. I do not mean discussions in Parliament, in the Parliamentary Commission, in the Bulgarian Medical Union and in the Bulgarian Dental Union. My speech will focus on how Party ABC sees the development of the system and as a recommendation to the Ministry of Health on what we think should be paying attention to. First of all, this concerns users of medical care. So far, we have been focusing on the implementation of medical care. The users are two types: individual users and the state as the largest user of medical care. Individual users must be granted all rights to use affordable, free of charge and so on, and so on under the Constitutional Health Aid. However, individual users must also know their obligations. They're not just paying their health contributions. The ministry has done nothing, at least I do not know anything has been done so far, to involve each individual healthcare user in fulfilling its obligations in terms of prevention, and everywhere it is said that it is at the heart of the reforms of our health system. There's no need to invent hot water. This system of mandatory voluntary prevention services exists in many countries. All we have to do is rewrite it. We were very disappointed when again the Health Insurance Act enabled the state, as the largest healthcare user, to be an irregular payer to the Health Insurance Fund. Colleagues who have been in this Chamber know that the state is currently obliged to pay 55% of the minimum health contribution, while we have even tried to criminalise the non-payment of full health contributions by individual users. For me it was an undeserved indulgence given to the state to become correct after 10 years. Perhaps the most suffering part of our health care is by my own discretion, despite quite an inverse opinion, doctrinal medical care. This is not because people are not doing their job, but because of the very wrong philosophy of hospital care. The payment of the GPS, of general practitioners per capita, is an act that deprives them of any motivation to increase the quality and even the amount of their services. By paying a per capita, they are also trying to get rid of the topic of P.S., acting passively, not to say that at times and counterproductive in terms of immunizations. Again, this is not an individual error. For me, this is a mistake in the philosophy of hospital care itself. In the same way, there is no motivation for the specialists in hospital care to take care of the treatment of patients. Their only imperative obligation is to help diagnose, and everything else, which is more laborious and more stressful, is to refer to hospitals. This leads to pressure on the system and heavy financial costs, in fact sinners are ultimately exerting those who take on the last part of the debts. With regard to hospitals, there were a lot of things to talk about. I have no intention of repeating what I said. For me, the main activity that needs to be done is for medical institutions to cease to be seen as state, municipal, private, to cease to be considered only on how much and what equipment they have and how many specialists they have. Yes, these are extremely important things, but with the concept of complexity of services, which has been slightly modified here in this room, it is also allowed complexity to be carried out on the basis of contracts. For me, the assessment of hospital care facilities should be based on who provides real medical care to the population. Unfortunately, I say it quite confidently, not those who are the most powdered, most equipped with equipment, are those who provide real medical care. On the contrary, they have their place, but they provide medical assistance to a very small part of the population. It was also a great disappointment to me that it was not accepted under the influence of the team of the Ministry of Health a mandatory requirement to art. 19 of the Law on Medical Institutions, namely those who do not comply with the requirements of art. For 24 hours of emergency and scheduled medical care on the basis of their permission to operate, they should not be allowed to enter into contracts with the Cashier. This created the availability of medical facilities that deal only with the choice of patients... I will give an example to understand.. they remove only implants of patients treated for three, six months or one year from severe diseases in large hospitals, and they receive the same price for this. Finally, I would like to say that there is a lot of talk, but very little is being done about the progeny policy in our healthcare. Colleagues, it is no shame to want to treat our patients with the cheapest medicines. Generative drugs are exactly the same drugs as innovative ones, but they have expired the patent period and this molecule can now be produced in other pharmaceutical companies. All rich countries have similar pro-generic policies. You can't tell people that genres don't heal. In this regard, there should be a strict program of our Ministry. Finally, I would like to say that the ABB Parliamentary Group will not support the vote of no confidence in the government. Thank you. [[Single applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u76	Thank you. To conclude, your parliamentary group has 12 seconds left. If you'd like an extension, please... [[Noise and lines: The time has been extended!]] It's a long-term thing. Twelve seconds is a little time to take the floor. Would you like a line? You don't want to. Any other MPs? People's representative Mikhail Mikov. Come to the stand, you want a statement. Mr. Kadiev has stated a statement, the people representative Valentin Pavlov and two others.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable MPs! The founding majority did not want this discussion to be made public to the Bulgarian citizens, to the Bulgarian patients, to those who give their money in the Health Insurance Fund. Bulgarian citizens live in a reform situation since 1999. Health funds have increased several times, patients have decreased by about 2 million, and the health care results are as we see them today, as the media show them with the advertising budgets of the Ministry of Health, and as they feel them then when they send them to a hospital. Dear MPs, it is clear that Boyko Borisov in his second term as Prime Minister has another tactic. Four ministers were replaced in three and a half years. In the second, GERB selflessly defends the minister, without clear political support, the minister, who is supported by political factions who are afraid that today would happen to be elections. It was evident from the parties today that will support the government "Patriotic Front," the Democratic Centre, ABB, that they simply do not want elections, but at all costs, no matter how the policy of Bulgarian citizens affects, will support the government. Since 1999, health has become more and more a commodity and today's government policy deepens this. Health is not a constitutionally protected good, it's a common commodity. Stock on a market that's not regulated. It is no accident that the Ministry of Health and the Government abdicate from control. Now with fingerprints and other primos, there is an attempt to transfer this burden to patients. Usually, when you go to the stall, you pick the goods. The difference with health care is you don't choose the goods. The doctor is that mediator who practically determines how to treat yourself, what you treat yourself with and, most importantly, how much this treatment costs you. Today's government, intrigued by the desire to protect the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, is burdening Bulgarian citizens with additional payments with all the actions. It also forces doctors to determine how much your sick list costs you, how much another medical document costs you, or how much it costs you not to wait two months with pain. A very interesting question is: if you do not want to wait, at what prices, what tariffs will you pay? It's not clear. The free market will determine the price of the health and life of the Bulgarian citizen. And most importantly, this is a consciously implemented policy of today's government, supported by the Patriotic Front, ABB, obviously also by parties that did not support it at the beginning, only to survive the government and its policies. GERB will bear all the negatives of this policy. Under no circumstances will the minister be tricked by the fact that this time the minister has not been found at a crossroads, he does not launch helicopters, which we have never seen from the previous mandate to appear, to fly, to provide for the sick. GERB will obviously secretly support this policy, whose sole purpose is to reduce public spending or at least to retain health care at the expense of additional payments. Who's gonna pay for it? They'll pay for those with minimum wage. They will pay for those who regularly paid their health contributions. What are they paying for? They'll pay extra for the right to live, the right to heal, otherwise constitutionally binding law. All the talk of reform is spinning around this basic issue.. Is health good? I haven't heard anyone from the right hand, from the ruling majority, make it clear to people that health is not a commodity. If Bulgaria does not reconsider this issue, trade in the lives of Bulgarian citizens will raise more and more mistrust in the health insurance system. Less and less Bulgarians see the point of paying their health insurance. Less and less Bulgarians will choose to be treated in Bulgaria when they have the opportunity to go to treatment abroad. This type of deepening compromise of the system is the result of today's government policy. Ladies and gentlemen, every MP here must stand on behalf of those hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians who stand before the desks of the Jeep every day, in front of the hospital counters, and best experience on their backs what trade in health and life means. Otherwise, how do we explain that there are also official decisions of the Agency for Medical Audit that once it is entered in the price list, this payment is due. And so it happens that in hospitals sometimes the stay costs much more than the five-star luxury hotels the Internet and television are 100, 200, 300 leva. a day. Personal costs for healthcare will grow and this will increasingly be a visible result of the policy that drives the government of GERB a policy that has found a minister who arrogantly, with provocative behavior tries to hide as real, invisible, tangible results for millions of Bulgarian citizens. We from BSP left Bulgaria are adamant that this policy will soon give negative public results, that without change, without real change and understanding, declared by all politicians in Bulgaria that health cannot be a commodity, Bulgarian healthcare has no future. The facts are also the migration of specialists, and the growing hunger for specialists who experience modern technologies, because you can fill hospitals with the most modern technique, but when there is no one to work with it, when there are no specialists, it is only part of the PR, part of spending money that does not give results for the health of the Bulgarians. The analyses of both the World Bank and the European Commission show it clearly. Whether the government will change policy depends on the vote of those who today support the vote of mistrust. If he does not change it, very soon this vote of mistrust will be a vote of mistrust of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u78	Any lines to Mr. Mikov? First line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Mikov, you expressed concern about the Bulgarian citizen not to pay out of his pocket. You are talking about a biometric identifier, which you called a thumbprint, but these are two different things, only you didn't say how much the biometric identifier of the Bulgarian citizen will cost and because you won't say it, I will tell you: zero leva, because it is given by nature, cannot be forgotten, can't be lost and cost free of charge. Thank you for your attention. [[Noise and lines, raging.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u80	Second line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, I am convinced that you are serious and perhaps soon you will inform us that you have found a Perpetum mobile. [[Laughter on the left]] , but this number with the free works the Bulgarian citizen looks at it for 25 years and this delusion is already hard to believe, because apart from the fingerprints with which nature gives us, there are complex computer systems, readers that cost millions and commissions on which they are quite good. What is more interesting is that one person from the Patriotic Front defends a system that, according to the press, will be built by neighbouring Turkey. [[Noise and lines.]] Whether it's true or not, whether through intermediary companies, the database and where the fingerprints would reach there were a lot of publications in the prints. A very strange mutation on the Patriotic Front. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u82	To speak, Mrs Daritkova has the word. [[Heckling]] Mr. Kadiev, you're next after GERB. Until now, they have not spoken from the group of non-members in a parliamentary group. Two guys took the floor. You'll have a chance after Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Despite the mixed efforts of the apparent and under-conscious opposition, this vote of distrust logically and arithmetically is decided. And if the main motive is consolidation of the opposition ranks, we as a nationally responsible party, a mandate carrier, expect meaningful debate, objective criticism and constructive proposals, because what happened in the sector What most irritates people in modern political reality is the transfer of responsibility without a shred of penance. True, the catharsis was typical of a previous National Assembly, but as one of the most important conditions for successful practice of medicine is the ability to bear responsibility, the same goes for politicians. It's no coincidence that both doctors and politicians take oaths. What is contained in the Hippocratic oath? If I do this oath and do not break it, let me enjoy my life and my art, being respected by all men, but if I do so, let the contrary be my lot! And politicians swear all their actions to be motivated by the interests of the people. Each of us at different times has faced the failures of the system, because despite the general opinion that we are only being treated in a Government hospital, I firmly state that we know reality and are united in our belief that the health care system in this form does not guarantee health security. We are united in the fact that changes are necessary. Yes, health is not a commodity, but the healthcare system has its financial parameters and it is very important that we talk in numbers and argue what happened. And I will start my speech precisely with support for what happened last year. In 2014, a report by the National Revenue Agency states that there are 517 000 people with suspended health insurance rights in Bulgaria. After June 2015, after the adoption of the amendments to the Health Insurance Act, 195 000 people have paid their health contributions and we have more than 72.6 million. lv. as income in the National Health Insurance Fund. The budget that voted on this National Assembly for this year is 129 million. lv. more than that in 2015, and this ensures a financial framework that is stable, necessary for the implementation of reforms. Yeah, there's gonna be more directions because we have 11 million. lv. More for specialized outpatient medical care, 2 million. lv. more money is only for primary outpatient medical care. Of course, the division of packages is a topic that is subject to intensive politicisation, but after publication of the relevant regulation in the supplementary package it is seen that there are only three clinical pathways left: It is clear that this cannot in any way restrict the access of Bulgarian citizens. The development of road medicine in Bulgaria in recent years has contributed to serious distortions in the structure of morbidity and investment in the sector. Serious deficits observed in certain medical specialties are also due to disproportionate evaluation of clinical pathways in different specialties. We very much relied on the new content of the packages, on the one hand, to correct the distortions and, on the other, to define clearly the activities paid by the main fund, the National Health Insurance Fund. This would be a field for developing a second pillar of funding of the system through voluntary health insurance and insurance companies. In 2014 we have an increase of 51 205 of the number of hospitalizations against the backdrop of an absolute reduction of 43 500 of the population of Bulgaria. With 95.24% increased hospital aid funds for the period 2009 - 2014. On the cost items of the Cassata there is a significant increase in drug therapy in malignancy of 116 million. lv. In 2012 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. lv. in 2014. Until now it has not been announced, unfortunately, a public analysis of growth on paths and diseases, and this could have served as an objective basis for the compilation of packages. An analysis also needs the difference in the cost of a patient passed and the increase in budgets of the various types of hospital care facilities in recent years, especially in the context of the Ministry's intentions to introduce an average of a clinical path through a hospital. We also have success in drug policy. The amendments to the Health Insurance Act introduced a centralised negotiation of mandatory concessions for medicines that are alone in a group. And this stabilizes the Cashier's budget and expenditure on medicinal products. A mechanism for the assessment of health technologies, a procedure for maintaining the reimbursement status of medicinal products, grounds for drawing up pharmacotherapeutic guidelines is in place. The National Health Card debates continue, but they should focus not on exploiting people's fears, but on real overcoming the difference in access to medical services. We absolutely must commend this management of the Ministry of Health for solving the problem of specializations and funding for young doctors to remain to receive their specialties here in Bulgaria, something that cannot be denied, even by the blackest opposition. In this Parliament, we adopted a National Health Strategy with a direction, vision and criteria that should occur by 2020. The national health objectives set will remind us are: reduction of mortality in children from zero to 1 year of age to 6.8 per thousand live births; reduction of mortality in children from 1 to 9 years of age to 0.24 per thousand; reduction of mortality in adolescents and young people from 10 to 19 years of age to 0.28 per thousand; reduction of mortality in persons in economically active groups from 20 to 65 years of age to 4.19 per thousand; increase of the average life expectancy of people after the age of 65 to 16.4 years of age. These goals also involve us, the current and future rulers with concentrated efforts to achieve them without party use and immense populism. The choice of specific decisions is easy when, as in our oath, we are guided by the interests of the people. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u84	Any lines to Mrs. Daritkova? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u85	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable Members, three brief questions. Question one: provided it's intended to pay off, if you decide not to wait, somewhere in medicine, is there a price tag in the rules on which we're going to pay for this thing?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u86	Where is it planned, by whom?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u87	That's what they say: if you don't want to wait, you'll pay. The second thing: when you will be paid in two or three months what is in the extra package from the Cashier, what is the financial effect for this Cashier, provided that it will be paid by the Cashier anyway? And the third question, quite briefly, is: Dr Daritkova, did you support in your speech, or did you thinly and femalely criticize the minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u88	Second line? A hole, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u89	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, you probably don't really know the system of extensive medical care because you made statements that do not correspond to the current reality. In any case, the directions for hospitalization, because the clinical pathways concern hospitalizations and treatment in hospital care, have two bookmarks: a planned or emergency reception, i.e. the patient can now be scheduled for any diagnosis in the current package of clinical pathways. In the future, it is foreseen that only the three clinical pathways, which I literally quoted, should require time waiting, and the diagnoses are such that they are categorically putting up with a delay. Patients will by no means be subject to financial judgment but are subject to medical judgement, and this is the commitment of each of the treating physicians because his responsibility for the patient's condition is fundamental and it does not change in any way. In terms of financial resources as a whole, I have expressed my considerations, and the party that I represent has always argued that we should go towards a more perfect mechanism of financing hospital care, namely to diagnostically linked groups, because the mechanism of clinical pathways has led to a number of distortions and I believe that sooner or later management will reach this decision. Of course, it takes time, a period to introduce this new system, because imbalances between different medical institutions, prioritizing certain specialties are a fact that I cannot deny.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u90	To speak, Mr. Kadiev has the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u91	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Bulgarian society does not like politicians for two main reasons: one is that they think we are arrogant, and the absence of the Prime Minister today from this debate, as well as the reluctance to broadcast it in the media, shows our arrogance. The second reason, even more severe, is that the Bulgarian voter believes that politicians speak and do something else. I went to the trouble of looking at the program of the Reformation Block in its part. It is very short, 10 points, now I will pass through them briefly and tell you what state we are in today: Forging of a fund co-financed drug therapy for Bulgarian citizens at the age of service: status unfulfilled, actions none. Forging a new mechanism for engaging workers in health care: some actions started without the prospect of fulfilling what was promised with a useful specific soon. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of buildings, buildings and parts of buildings. "Introduction of a second voluntary pillar of competing private funds covering the current NHIF deficits': the status of the NHIF not fulfilled. Change of NHIF status in order to make it an instrument of the state to provide a basic package of medical services to the citizens: the status of the NHIF not completed, actions exactly in the opposite direction. At the moment, as one of our colleagues has already mentioned, five of the nine members of the Health Insurance Supervisory Board are actually representatives of the state. The amount of the compulsory health contribution financing the first pillar of the insurance: remains the same is the promise of the Reforming Block: the status of the insurance company. The health contribution is the same, but the Ministry of Health is in fact in the form of an additional tax, called conditional tax harmful food, added to our health contribution. Promise 7 "Accepting a strategy for effective management of hospital care through restructuring of medical institutions, privatization, public-private partnership, optimization of the hospital network according to the National Health Card": the status of unfulfilled. Promise 8 "Formation of regional health consortiums and adoption of a national health card with a binding character": the status of the health card partially fulfilled, with poor results. Promise 9 "Introduction of an individual electronic health card": incomplete and unstarted. And the last one is the removal of the system of directions in its current vicious form by introducing an individual health insurance package for hospital care. The colleague Valeri Simeonov said just now: "Moskov. " Tanya Andreeva; Moskov. " Tanya Andreeva. I don't know how you compare them. Tanya Andreeva is more beautiful. I'm sorry, Mr. Moskov, but... [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u92	I'm prettier than you are.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u93	Yes, and Mrs. Karayancheva is prettier than me, I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u94	Colleagues, please, on the sidelines, explain this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u95	If we compare them with policy, I am inclined to argue that Mrs. Tanya Andreeva is more reasonable in her policy. I would like to quote a letter to you, and this is what we have to compare: Petar Moskov These are those nine hospitals that we merged and which had to achieve some spectacular financial result. The letter is, quote: on the need to take measures to improve the financial results of hospitals, and one sentence: Here's the reform. As Minister Lukarski used to say, "It's all an election trick: one we write, another we do; one we talk about, another happens." And that is why, honourable colleagues of GERB, I address you because your silence today is deafening. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I've heard two speeches so far. One was a line from colleague Abu Melih. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u96	There are other MPs on the list.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u97	The other was Mrs Daritkova's, which even I did not understand whether she supported or did not support Minister Moskov such was her statement. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I want to hear the heavy artillery Mrs. Atanasova. You have former chairmen of health committees, you have members of health committees, I want to hear them. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u98	They're recorded for speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u99	I know that you do not want to vote for Peter Moskov and do it only and only because he bets all the time and demonstrates closeness with Boyko Borisov, that is why your support is. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] But tomorrow it's on your back. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And do the math on how you're gonna vote. We're not talking about the left-hand side here. We're talking about healthcare, the chaos in it, and this is the path we need to go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u100	- What's the line? There are no lines. Personal explanation of Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u101	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kadyev, I absolutely disagree with the manipulation you have committed from this high tribune, and since you challenge me, I will give you some facts based on which...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u102	No, you're not in replica mode. Just tell me what Mr. Kadyev did to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u103	I was offended by the fact that you almost suggested to colleagues that the comparison was unfounded, but I would still like to draw your attention to you, Mr. Kadiev, that the same lady liquidated the most successful Auchesero Gynecological Hospital. [[bSP LB loud noise and lines]] leaving her without any anesthesiologist...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u104	Mr. Simeonov, this is not a personal explanation. Mr. Simeonov!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u105	...and on his last day, he fired two principals. Yes, the personal explanation ends, last sentence: principledness Georgi Kadiev; principledness [[(Laughter and excitement. (Applause from PF.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u106	- What do you mean, lines? We're done with the lines. [[Strong noise in GERB.]] Mr. Simeonov made a personal explanation. I was asking for lines. You want a line to Mr. Kadyev? Here you go. [[(Reply in GERB:) There were no lines, right?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u107	I thought Mr. Simeonov made the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u108	You're not listening, colleagues! You talk in groups and don't follow the debate. That's why this is happening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u109	On the contrary, Madam President, I am listening with great attention to the debate on the conduct of health policy. Dear Mr. Kadyev, are you convinced of the things you said from this tribune? I remember Minister Moskov's statements, which very strongly and rightly argued in his view developed the theory that the unification of medical institutions should lead to optimization of administrative costs, to this, you see how many people will be made redundant, how they will conduct public procurement and so will be consolidated even more effect than that, and hence the financial situation of these hospitals must be improved. This said Mr. Moskov for more than a year. I would therefore like to hear if you are really convinced of what you are saying, given the facts you are exporting. By the way, you're a man tempted by financial matters. It is good when you attack the health policy and everything Minister Moskov says to open the budgets for the Health Insurance Fund, which are voted in this National Assembly, and to see among all that is taken up as a commitment and explained by this tribune and by all the media for the last months and weeks, whether there are any scheduled funds in healthcare at all. I'm saying it's good to see where the increased funds are. I, besides 245 million, increased for medicinal products, have never seen anything bigger anywhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u110	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Simeonov, if I've offended you in any way, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to. [[Reply from the National Representative Georg Georgiev.]] . I said that the correct comparison should be between what Peter Moskov said and what Krassimir Angari wrote in this letter. [[Shows it.]] Colleagues, I quote the letter from Assoc. Aangarian for the reasons why this thing is happening in these nine hospitals: Most of the hospitals from the university hospitals' composition have been designed to work in larger volumes and have not been reorganized for work in a competitive environment.! Secondly, the Head of Clinics and independent units are not willing to take measures to reduce costs depending on the reduction of revenue and activity volumes. That the chief of clinics themselves are sabotaging your own reform. That's what it means! Third, Leading specialists work for competitive structures or for private interests. What do we do now when leading specialists work for private interests?! Fourth, we sell took.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u112	We're selling!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u113	Mr. Moskov, please, when you request the floor, it will be given to you by the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u114	These are the people who sabotaged your own reform. These people are the Bulgarian people. As you can see, you have no support from anyone here! Just because they give you conditional support in order not to bring down the entire government does not mean that they support you personally. Even your own Reformation Block does not support you because they know what this is about. All of this is written on us, on our backs. I read the last point of the reason the reform does not happen in university hospitals. The patients in the complex of the nine hospitals are not yet treated in a complex way. It's been nine months, when are we going to treat them in a complex way?! That he will end your term tomorrow-the day after tomorrow! Not to mention, in the last six years, four and a half years he's been running the same party. What are we talking now about lack of health care?! What are you doing for four and a half years?! You let the reformers do your reform! In the end, all of this is written to you, to all of you, the government!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u115	That's right! [[Comments in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u116	Mr. Bajraktarov's procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u117	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner in which you are holding the meeting, as within 5 minutes you have violated twice the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. The first time after the speech and doppelganger regime was exhausted, Mr. Simeonov was given the right for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u118	It's by the book!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u119	It's in accordance with the regulations. After that, however, unknown by which rules, apparently someone shoved under your shelf below, you gave the right to lines and duplicates, which was a second offense which was not at all the line, but was aimed at another subject matter, which is unacceptable behavior! From now on, I demand strict respect for the Rules of Procedure, because in this way you distort the debate and the forms of holding this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u120	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I join your call for strict compliance with the Rules of Procedure, which applies both to the person in charge of the meeting and to the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u121	Don't join us. Do as you're told.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u122	A personal explanation was requested, but there was a reply from the stands. You didn't hear back there because you're distracted and you're not following the debate. So when we are strict, we need to be strict both to fellow Members who violate the Rules of Procedure and to the leadership, which had no other option but to play a next line and to allow for the replicating of the people's representative. The word for speech is Dr. Valentin Pavlov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u123	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Many of the things I will say have been detailed by Dr Daritkova in her speech. I associate it with the fact that we fought together for a whole year so that there could be quality and good health in Bulgaria. We have heard some of the statements of the importers of the no-confidence vote on management in the field of health. We had a chance to get acquainted with their motives. After all, we've been listening to this for a year. A group of MPs were looking for all sorts of reasons to hinder health reform. They spoke untruths in all the media, and not just from there, but from this tribune and where they could when they could. They used their positions to inspire fear and terror in people, in doctors, even in our children! My fellow Members, you didn't get your political moves. The patients were confused, but eventually they saw the political attack, not your ideas for better health care. The attempts to mislead the medical community also failed. Bulgarian doctors also did not fall under your populism. You tried to continue with the chaos in which you felt comfortable, but you know, a minister showed up with his team and messed up all your plans. You've broken the comfort you've created yourself. We have even heard today from this tribune that there is an offer to leave this chaos. Dear colleagues, you had the wonderful reason for this to happen before this minister came before his team arrived. After all, today we are talking about the vote of mistrust for motives. The main motive we are reading is the chaos in healthcare, which has led to limiting the access of citizens to health care. Increasing the number of directions by 630 thousand, increasing with more than 5 million new studies in hospital aid, increasing preventive examinations by 240 in children in different age groups, and last but not least from the start of health reform funding a third activity in dental medicine, this, according to importers, restricts the access of citizens to health care and will create chaos. The second main motive, these are the Insurance Act and the Health Services Act, two basic laws which, as Dr Daritkova said, were adopted within this year. Yeah, it's hard to believe, but it's a fact. You see, there was discrimination because, according to Ordinance No 11 of 9 December 2015, the package guaranteed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) is a major and additional one, because the activities of the basic package are planned for implementation without delay and are carried out according to a certain diagnostic and medical plan in accordance with medical indications. Because the extra package activities, depending on the patient's condition, can be planned with a delay in time, but not for more than two months. We only heard from Dr Daritkova's speech about young doctors and young dentists or dentists who could not specialize at the moment. The ability of all these doctors to stay and continue their careers in Bulgaria was thanks to the adopted Regulation No 1 for acquiring a specialty in the health system of doctors and dentists and this is already a fact. Enough colleagues have already taken advantage of it and already specialize right here in Bulgaria. The failed attack on the issue of vaccines, the attempt to spread fear in our patients failed. Last but not least, how long did it take you fellow Members to collect the signatures for the vote of no confidence, how long did it take you to motivate yourself to support this vote? You answer the question yourself. Dear colleagues, at the end of the day we all have to put aside our political bias, we have to unite, we must not mock the fears of Bulgarian patients and their trust in the Bulgarian doctor. We doctors have taken the Hippocratic oath at the time of our graduation and, believe me, we have kept it all our professional ways. For all who work in the field of health, it is a calling and a great responsibility. Dear colleagues, we in the Reformation bloc will not support this vote of mistrust, because we are confident and convinced of the effort everyone is making to finally have health care at the highest level in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Single applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u124	Any lines to Mr. Pavlov? I won't. Colleagues, I suggest we make a recess here, and we continue the debate at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u125	The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. The hearing is ongoing. [[Heckling]] We are waiting in the hall and Minister Moskov. [[Noise.]] Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. The word for speech has the popular representative Mr. Kiril Dobrev. We're listening, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to briefly share my view of why health care has been chosen for the topic of the vote of mistrust and why this vote of mistrust will not succeed in winning. The healthcare system is an unreformed, quite conservative system with great inertness. It contains many problems of the patients, of the seriously ill people, and we are all potential patients. Minister Moskov's team started a large-scale reform on a broad front, which included the Health Insurance Act, the Health Insurance Act, the separation of packages into basic and additional, construction, creation, development of the National Health Card...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The known delay created by the entry into force of the new laws, by drafting regulations, by delaying a number of expected changes and performances, including the new framework contract, has brought some tension to the system. This is naturally and logically used by the opposition to initiate a vote of mistrust. The vote of mistrust is, as has already been pointed out several times, the main activity of the opposition. It consolidates the opposition and this is extremely necessary and favourable for the country's governance. The no-confidence vote is a catalyst for positive processes and development in the field of health and in the government's management activities at all. And, of course, we accept with some satisfaction this evolutionary moment. I hope that a correct, objective debate will stimulate the team of the Ministry of Health to work more effectively and will lead to a correction of gaps and inaccuracies that can always be seen in the process of large-scale work. However, there are also very serious achievements of the team of Minister Moskov who objective achievements that no one can deny. First of all, it is the initiation and introduction of much stricter controls in the use of public resources, strict financial control in all areas of health, a process that is currently developing and which I know we all encourage and admire. For the first time, sufficient attention is paid to the effectiveness of diagnostic and medical activities, the result of the treatment and the quality of work of the curative structures, a serious problem which seemed to have been neglected in previous years and control over it was not clear enough. It is an undisputed fact, especially among the members of the Committee on Health, the greater collaboration of Minister Moskov and the taking of consensus decisions and changes on bills and the ability with each bill to work better and more consensually together. I would like to point out again and I am sure that everyone will agree with me, especially the members of the Committee on Health, the exclusive role of the President of the Committee on Health and Health, Dr. Daritkova, as an extremely good mediator, an effective mediator between the executive authority, between the Ministry of Health and the legislature. These are undisputed facts which we cannot deny and which give us optimism for future better and more effective joint work........................................the Ministry of Health and we as the main structure of the legislative power. There is, and I am not afraid to point it out, also a good collaboration within the Committee on Health between all representatives of political forces with the aim of overpartying much better work to improve the health system. My appeal to everyone and to the participants in today's discussion is: let us use the vote of mistrust as an analysis and recommendation for better and more effective work in the field of health. I'm a moderate, reasonable optimist. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u127	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u128	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! As soon as we saw the platforms of the ruling parties at the beginning of the mandate in the part of........then the eight priorities and the 22 goals, we said that the programme of the government drew a very fuzzy silhouette of reform and from this point of view we predicted that reforms would actually only be fairy tales of reforms. I do not consider the two bills that have been adopted as part of this reform finally completed, because both the laws..................... the Health Insurance Act and the Law on Medical Institutions are in the Constitutional Court. Dr. Kovatchka said there was no evidence regarding these. I will bring you several in three directions, namely why we believe that the argument command-administrative approach Regarding the first topic. We believe that Minister Moskov's style is really command-administrative, that he applies nationalisation and recentralisation because there are many examples of this. First of all, the attempt at nationalisation of the NHIF Supervisory Board, which failed. Further, the merger of nine university hospitals, appropriated as a capital holding as an analogy from the past of the Medical Academy for the purpose of central administration, but also centralising the auctions. That central body for public procurement and auctioning, subordinate only to the minister, cleverly called by someone even as a central pharmacies. Further, the attempt to return compulsory accreditation to hospital hospitals proved to be a racketeering tool. Further on, the compulsory health card at the monopoly Health Insurance Fund is what Dr. Ademov said. In this situation, we do not think that it is appropriate to introduce a Health Card. And also the cluster of regulations, orders and orders that are in the mentioned two laws. With regard to the ideas that we do not think were realized, I have a kind of anthology, a kind of chrystomy in terms of hollow, unrealized, media-spoken ideas, but without relevant realization. Here, of course, even before he became a minister, Mr. Moskov's idea to remove and replace from the base package in the NSI Health Insurance Fund itself, the creation of competing health funds, for which even the Bulgarian Medical Association has a contract with the Bulgarian Medical Union, the removal of commercial companies from hospitals, this topic was immediately extinguished after it was expressed. The delivery of 400 plus 200 ambulances for Emergency Services is still waiting for them. The categorical reorganization of TELK hasn't heard anything about it in a few months. The exotic idea of bringing the drug market together with Greece and Romania. Of course, it's a fruit of incompetent interpretation and it's immediately forgotten. The battle with the pharmacies chain that was mentioned a year ago by the Minister. And that idea went into oblivion. Further, the idea that civil servants with a salary of twice the minimum will immediately pay the full health contribution. Even the Minister of Social Policy was against this idea and it was forgotten. The separate day off for all working for a profile review was a really very extravagant idea. She wasn't reasonable enough to abandon herself. We include here the new identification of patients in hospitals and fingerprint pharmacies. Let's see how far it goes based on all the different interpretations on this subject. And also, the tax on harmful foods seems to have forgotten this topic. We include the moratorium on the opening of new hospitals and activities in the section "Inefficient reforms without utility." We do not think that this moratorium will improve Bulgarian healthcare. The idea of the hard budgets with Decree No 57 of the Council of Ministers, which caused so many protests. The notorious unfortunate readers were introduced a year ago, who had to be replaced, and the medical facilities poured millions there. Further the merger in one of the district and municipal centers for emergency assistance in Sofia, which led to the creation of new opponents of the minister And so on and so forth. These are the arguments regarding the evidence of these claims. The reason for the vote of mistrust is not some personal ambition, it is not the temptation to give in to personal attacks on the Minister of Health, but because we believe that healthcare is going in the wrong direction. Here I can also think of another argument that we expressed in November 2014, namely, we strongly objected to the style of communication with society as a public person, and even then we wanted to initiate a corresponding vote of mistrust. Then there was xenophobia, there was a non-pardonist attempt to take human rights, use hate speech from the Minister of Health, which is generally unacceptable. In general, this is institutionalized lawlessness towards a community of people. No one has the right to call full Bulgarian citizens scotts or population! Illegal actions which caused these statements by the Minister cannot be eliminated in a symmetrical way also with a vicious toolkit. The minister then stigmatized in a vicious way unacceptable to a European country a whole ethnicity and we forgot that there is no collective guilt but there is personal guilt! It's an inadmissible void of justice, in our opinion. In addition, in general terms, we are particularly sensitive to political hooliganism, which should not be encouraged, but should be punished by the legislative authority of the Republic of Bulgaria. I apologize, Mr. Secretary and Mrs. Chairman, for the words, but they will be quotes only. You just now, Minister, have turned to us as a person, and I am telling you as a person: do not use these insulting qualifications that have become a system in your media exhibitions lately! How can a minister call different people idiots for the harmful food, there will be a fight with the pricks, the bastards, the bottom riffraff, the illusion. I'm uncomfortable even quoting you from this sacred tribune!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u129	Don't do it, don't do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u130	This does nothing to improve your image. You are a popular person who is part of the authorities of the Republic of Bulgaria. With that in mind, you must act politically correct. This language is unacceptable and we will always oppose it, and in some way we will react if you allow it to become a system further. For the finale, I'll say something else. Yesterday a national representative survey came out, which concerns that food tax. There, of course, 64% of the population does not approve of the tax, only 15% approves of it, but there is another very interesting question: The answer to 50% of the population is:.. to worse. The answer to only 7% of the population is: [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The general conclusion of this study concerning harmful foods is that there are no harmful foods, but there are harmful ministers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from SG to DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u131	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Lachezar Ivanov has the floor of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u132	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! Today we are witnessing another health vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u133	Who's in line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u134	...who, I might say, and everyone here who was present, was extremely difficultly organized. I do not remember in the National Assembly there being a vote of no confidence of a government of 69 MPs, of which 67 of them from political parties, and two of them independent. Such a vote, believe me, you can make a reference to it is not organised. So in itself, even with the introduction of the vote of mistrust, we see that it is not well prepared, but knowing the reasons, we are convinced that much of them are in the future............................................................................. Only on the first page you can see and read how many times the particle will be used. So we don't have any facts, we have events that haven't happened yet. We are talking about a reform that has not started, but already from this platform and from all the media appearances of the opposition there is fear and uncertainty in the people. Health is an extremely sensitive area. Besides, she's too conservative. When you put people's fears into future chaos, I quote: "The inability of citizens to access, like other factors that will violate the citizens' ability for good health care, all of this speaks of frustration in the formation of motives for a government's no-confidence vote. Because today we are not gathered to give a vote of no confidence only to the Minister of Health, but to Mr. Borisov's office. This must not be forgotten by anyone. Here's what I'd like to say. Perhaps the opposition on the left is consolidated and thus wants to consolidate their upcoming battles at the political congress, which is coming to BSP, and to remind themselves and their voters that in some way they exist. I'll focus on the motives and be specific. I would like to start by saying that a Health Strategy has been presented to our attention, which I can say with the members of the Committee on Health, we have read nothing better than 1996. I think that in the ideas, in the sense of the Strategy, many of our ideas and dreams are united, what should happen. I am pleased that this Strategy reflects precisely these modern requirements and standards for health reform. I'm passing on the National Health Card here in a nutshell. Colleagues, the National Health Card is an extremely important document which, at the cost of a lot of work and sleepless nights, has been built. This document gives a picture of the real opportunities, criteria and existing base on the territory of Bulgaria. Moreover, it defines as an objective and task how and how healthcare should be developed in the future. This Health Card is a picture of what's really going on. Everyone here who deals with health care, we've long wanted this Health Card to happen. Why? Because we know well that medical institutions and health care are not equal and situated in the territory of the country and all citizens cannot enjoy the same medical service. This health card tells us something else. It provides guidance on the future development of health care and the direction of both personnel resources, as well as scientific equipment and equipment. The health card allows for another very important moment. You all know health care can't happen if there's no funding if there's no money. This health card gives exactly how and in what way to be used in the best way the funds allocated to health care. A lot of debate has sparked the basic and the extra package. I'll cover them here in a few words. Dr. Daritkova, I think that you have well revealed, but I will say that it is extremely important here that in the main package are the socially significant diseases that the Bulgarian nation must formulate and, accordingly, the efforts of the Minister to be aimed at improving the diseases of the organs of the circulation, for the malignancy, for the traumas and traumatism, for the diseases of the respiratory system, tuberculosis, will not list absolutely everyone. Here this financial resource must be targeted and be extremely effective. About what? It is precisely in this basic package that we focus on, because the nation and people die mainly from these diseases. There is no present colleague here who has no relative or relative who is not suffering from the incomplete and poor health care that we are getting to date. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, with the reforms, we want to reduce direct payments. Each of us has experienced on our backs when we need to do a study of how he should pay for example, how to complete or for long-term treatment we are looking for a place to reschedule our loved one, acquaintance, or relative. It is with these reforms that we aim to have complexity of the service. Perhaps this word in the process of imposing the bills is somehow already being used a priori and the meaning that we are talking about in a comprehensive and complete medical service is not really in place. Therefore, in this order of thought I note, Mr Minister, that all those reforms that we have talked about should be more clearly articulated in society, clarified, clarified both for patients and for doctors. I'm going to the next point of the motive and I'm going to the E.R., one of my favorite topics. Electronic healthcare started back in 2000 and everyone who passed through the cabinet of the various health ministers contributed to it to one degree or another. Colleagues, I would like to say that I have said this many times, that through e-health it will stop any form of draining, stealing and, whatever expressions can be used. For the electronic health card, a colleague of mine here said nothing had happened. I mean, after the launch of our government, we already have the so-called hospital. This is the first real step. The second real step is the introduction of an electronic card with a chip. Now I come to one of the most disciplined topics, namely the electronic identifier. I think all of the ruling and supporting parties have put their signature on it for approval. This is where the spirits raged around the so-called biometric indicators. I want to share something with you. What Minister Moskov wants to present to our society right now is not new. This thing I personally saw in 2010 in Italy when we were shown that it wasn't enough just to have an electronic health card and a chip to stop the thefts. The system can only start when you put your finger on it. In most cases, it's speculated on fingerprints, which has nothing to do with it. By placing the finger and launching this health card with biometric indicators, the patient consents to the money he has contributed so far to launch and ensure that his examination or study is completed. Moreover, because here it was mentioned about the so-called readers. We found them and we just had to finish this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u135	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u136	These readers have proved insufficient and I would say ineffective because you know that there is always a form and a way to outsmart the system. Ladies and gentlemen, with the introduction of this electronic identifier, which may be biometric, close the door of this possibility for the presence of patients in the clinic and respectively to be drained. Without setting the map and closing the circle, there is no way the money can go from the Health Insurance Fund to the relevant specialist or hospital. There's no way that if you're in the hospital and you're in the hospital, this process can be completed without you at the entrance and the exit to close down the appropriate means that will be discharged from the health card along the clinical path. I think this is very important, and it deserves to be thought of. And anyone who stands up and says he's against it will protect all forms invented in time and years of draining the Casket. I use the words "Cast drain" because many medical institutions will not quote, I know those where patients have given their card, then it is subtracted to a Xerox and its account is opened and closed, and the corresponding funds are drained. The Minister knows well. Ladies and gentlemen, I can talk a lot about imported motives. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] I believe that the health system is too conservative and needs not so much attacks, fear-taking among patients and doctors, but debate and discussion. I think that the good initiative that Minister Moskov took as a remark from the discussion is that there is a discussion on the health card that we are talking about in places and cities. I welcome this and hope that this will continue so that the reforms can actually be well explained, well thought out and that we can launch them. Only then, perhaps in a year will we be able to assess whether this is good or not. As soon as I finish, I'll say there's screaming and funny crying here before anything happens, we're already denying it. This is typical: whenever someone starts to make reform or changes, he is to be disgraced, booed by the audience and then things don't somehow happen, as society has no way of hearing and listening to the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. The word to speak is Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u138	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ataka party will vote mistrust of this government and, in particular, this minister, although we are convinced that healthcare is only one of many sectors in which this government, and in particular the Reformation bloc, has failed. With the same success, we can ask for a vote of no confidence in the security sector as well, something which the Ataka Party has drafted, and we have prepared a draft for a no-confidence vote and expected support from the left side of the Chamber, which we did not receive. But it doesn't matter! We are led by the deep conviction in this vote of mistrust that right-wing extremismists in the face of this minister cannot manage social activities such as healthcare. Health is a deeply social function of the state and it should not be entrusted to moralists in quotes, to ideology, which since the time of Kostovo they have become accustomed to calling ruin the reform. They will reform Bulgarian healthcare as the Bulgarian industry reformed. Look around: as a result of their reforms Bulgaria today has no industry. There will be no hospitals! I come out to you with one card, I will even ask my colleagues to bring it, it remains the bank, to show what your healthcare reforms and policies have led to so far. Since 2009, you have managed with little exception of one year. Forty-second parliament, whose government of Oresharski took office on 27 May 2013 and ceased its activities on 5 June 2014, after a press conference by Lutvi Mestan, if you recall, exactly one year. Since 2009, you have been in charge for the seventh year, with this little exception, although in one year the Oresharski government has been able to restore one of the hospitals that you closed. [[Noise and lines.]] I go out to you and I show this map to the skull map. [[Shows a map of Bulgaria.]] This is not the map with the skulls with which the Bulgarian transition began in 1990. For 25 years we already have reason to apply new clusters of skulls on the map of Bulgaria. These are the hospitals you closed only in your first term. I'd like to list them for you, because you can't forget them. In less than four years, you shut down 17 hospitals. They were closed, notice the municipal multi-profile hospitals in: Elena, Veliko Tarnovo, Gorna Oryahovitsa, Gabrovo, Sevlievo, Tryavna. In Bobov, a city with a very high density of serious accidents, you make the citizens of Bobov dol run to Dupnitsa or Kyustendil to receive treatment. Bulgarians from Trun and Breznik should seek emergency help where do you think?! In Pernik. The residents of General Toshevo and Tervel must travel to Dobrich to be treated. You also closed a mass of clinics of key importance for public health, such as Plovdiv's Pulmonary Hospital. There protested both patients and citizens and doctors, so what! Your reforms can only mean one thing about the destruction of the health care system. I'll tell you what, it's already coming up. The introduction of a base package, which is free, and of an additional package, which is paid, actually introduces a brutal, severe social division, inequality in Bulgarian society. Healthy will be able to afford to be only those who can pay for the extra package. Otherwise, you didn't do anything against the corruption in the medical community. I just want to say to you, let me remind you that out of all the professional guilds the medical system has entered the age of transition with the greatest public prestige, with the greatest public trust. We Bulgarians welcomed the emergency doctor into our homes as a missionary, sent him as a messiah. Twenty-five years later, after 25 years of reforms, Bulgarians today talk about the mafia in white aprons. Today we find 50 cm of wire in patients' veins. Today, the businessmen in white coats, in which doctors have become, actually put heavier diagnoses on their patients to take the money down the aisle. These are your reforms. We will therefore vote against this minister and against his policy. I just want to express one disagreement. I hear the speakers on the left are talking about failure in politics. Look, guys, this isn't a failure. For right-wing extremism, the destruction of Bulgarian public health is a triumph. They triumph in each of these closed hospitals. They triumph every time the legalization of corruption, called by euphemism, is carried out. As a result of their reforms, today we have civil associations of relatives of the deceased mothers who died as a result of hospital care because they could not pay 900 BGN. There are dozens of cases like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u139	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u140	No. I'm talking to facts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u141	Colleagues, please, no tossing from the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u142	I have family that this happened to. No wonder you replicate and protest, because you are the people, you are the party, you are the government, you have appointed as health ministers individuals who own private hospitals. This may be natural for a party like yours, but it is not natural in terms of morality and legality. I'm finishing up with a statement by a former co-partner of today's health minister. Recently, Dr. Nikolay Mihailov, who left this party with disgust, said: "Bulgarian healthcare is in such a state that you can only get out of a Bulgarian hospital alive if you have entered absolutely healthy, which is a paradox. But a paradox is at all the appointment of an extremely right-wing politician as Minister of Health. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u143	Any lines to Mrs. Tasheva? I won't. Mr. Gokov has the word. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute! I'm sorry, I didn't see Mr. Ivanov ask for a line. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u144	Madam President, I never intended to take the floor for a cue, but I was offended, and I suppose all doctors here can't be so irresponsible about doctors. It's the first time I've heard of them. We're all amazed at the information you're giving us. I would like to ask you and to tell you that in Bulgaria thousands of doctors, health workers, nurses work for the health of the people, and from this tribune you have put insults on them. I'm just wondering how it's possible today, when we talk that health care doesn't have a political color, you leaked so much false data that the line had to start from the hospitals that you said were bankrupt, in general, with diagnoses you spilled here all... Please make excuses to the Bulgarian doctors who give their health and life around the clock from this high tribune so that the Bulgarian patient can receive a better health care. I'm begging you! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u145	Second line? A hole, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u146	Dear colleague, you have not been informed. The surgeons I read from the National Cardiology Hospital pulled out of the veins of a 37-year-old metal wire patient 50 cm long. She was forgotten in the body of the sick four months before that in the Sofia hospital. Ivan Rilski. I didn't want to quote names, but you forced me to. Yeah, the fact is, while you're shutting down municipal hospitals and denying...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u147	We?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u148	Yes, you from GERB. No, it's not us. It's you. There's no one else. While you are shutting down municipal hospitals, in Bulgaria they grow like mushrooms, more densely than malls, private hospitals for one reason only the opportunity to drain the thing called the National Health Insurance Fund. That $3 billion. 200 million. lv. are ready to drain, for example, with fake diagnoses, and you do. There's nothing to apologize for! On the contrary, I think and continue to argue, and I can bring up countless many examples, concrete examples, of the so-called lekarian errors committed simply because the patient was unable to pay. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u149	Mr. Gokov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Bulgarian healthcare is seriously ill. He suffers from short-sighted and ineffective solutions, and Bulgarian citizens are severely damaged in terms of treatment and prevention. Especially now, 15 months after the beginning of this government, his condition is more tragic than ever. The managers have no idea of identifying, categorizing and prioritizing problems and their phased solution. There is no satisfaction among any of the countries in the healthcare process. Doctors and patients are on the knife. Medical facilities, too. Bulgarian healthcare crashes and it will not be excessive if I say that through healthcare you are conducting genocide against the Bulgarian people. That is why the vote is right for healthcare, although for whatever sectoral policy of this government we ask for a vote of no confidence, we will not be far from the truth. The policy that leads this team of the Ministry is weak and harmful. Against the background of the visible results, an invisible politicization of the healthcare system is underway. It was not changes, it was not reforms presented as reforms initiatives, but there are virtually no reforms. And as if everything is being done in spite of sound logic, in spite of the expectations for stabilization and efficiency of the system. Everything's stuck, everything's shaking with everyday problems. Scandals are raining one after another: suspicious deals with vaccines; fingerprints; attempts to privatize hospital property; tax harmful foods; pressure on providers and whatnot. Hospital debt is growing, municipal health is at stake. Over 200,000. Bulgarians are deprived of emergency medical care. In February, a new regulation for the payment of medicines comes into force, and in April, patients will be divided into those with socially significant diseases and those whose diseases can tolerate and wait, or take out more money and pay. If they don't have to die. By accepting the amendments to the Health Insurance Act, the Bulgarians lost one of their most valuable benefits, the universal coverage of medical care, preserved so far in spite of the neoliberal market relations imposed after 1989. With the so-called "successive" and "shattering" package you practically break this universal coverage and restrict the access of the Bulgarians to health care. Even this year, health experts expect increased costs at the expense of patients......................................... access to healthcare and poor quality. The minister called the patient in an interview with a small animal in the jungle among predators. And he's right. Clearly, health care is a jungle. He didn't specify who the predators are, but it's not hard to figure out who they are. These are all those who earn millions and billions on the back of the Bulgarians and those who create conditions for this to be possible, and the health system does not protect people with large and unexpected costs of healthcare who cannot afford them. According to the World Bank's criteria for adequate financial protection, payments by own resources by patients should not exceed 15 In Bulgaria they are over 48%. The additional cost of health, outside health contributions, is more than 5.3 of the total budget of all households, while in Europe this percentage is only 3. Every year, 4% of the Bulgarian population becomes poor because of additional payments for health. Bulgarians pay three times more for health than is normal. We are even worse than Turkey, Croatia and Romania. This lack of financial protection pushes a large number of households below the poverty line, especially those close to the official threshold. This phenomenon causes a lot of people to die, but not to see a doctor. That's what the World Bank said and showed you a red card. You constantly insinuate the public that the biggest problem is the lack of sufficient funding and the funds need to increase more and more in order to have something to steal, to rob, because Bulgarian healthcare is a robbery. What are the effects of this continuous increase in funds? None. This shows that it is not finance that is the problem, but the system of spending it itself. The money for health care is enough, but there's no control. For example, for private healthcare, which has become an extremely profitable business, there has been a serious increase in funds since 2009, and at the same time, state and municipal hospitals are increasingly experiencing an acute need for funds and specialists and are in debt. You need to be aware that you are also violating art. 52 of the Bulgarian Constitution, where it writes: every Bulgarian has the right to health insurance and affordable assistance. Therefore, he must come to manage someone else who does not regard healthcare as a purely financial and market system and does not try to stabilise it solely at the expense of consumers. That is the difference between us who are bringing this vote, and you who are taking it. For us, health is not a commodity, it is a public good and a fundamental right of every Bulgarian. The lack of unity in the ruling majority in health policies, the total chaos, the carelessness, helplessness and all the panic in the actions we see in you make us bring this vote. Everyone in this House must clearly state their attitude towards the health policy of this government in order to draw the conclusions of the Bulgarians about you, about whose interest you are protecting the predators, or of the patient. The Bulgarians will hear today's debates and it will become clear and obvious to them that you are so capable in this area. It will become clear to them that the vote has every reason. The Bulgarians are patient, but they are not stupid. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u151	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. A line? People's representative Mr. Bayraktarov wants a first line. Second line, Mr. Gorov. The third line is still vacant.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason for my reply to my colleague Georgi Gokov is the doubt that what he expressed in his speech from this high tribune are his thoughts or thoughts, which he has copied from an article of the newspaper "Standart" dated 5 May 2015, published at 15.07. [[Applause on the right.]] In order to understand what I say and what my colleague Gokov said, and then he can also refer to the transcript, I read verbatim: The Bulgarians pay three times more for health than is normal. We're even worse than Turkey, Romania, Croatia. Check if Gokov also said from what was written in the newspaper "Standart" and published on the website of "Standart". [[Radio.]] That's what this is about. In the same way, the vote of distrust is motivated by various media publications. It is extremely unfair and dishonest to comment on such a serious topic as healthcare in media publications! This is a disgrace to Bulgarian parliamentaryism! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u153	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Here's your next line, Mr. Gorov. [[The National Representative Dimitar Gorov comes out on the stand. He's wearing a plastic bag. Noise and lines. Awesome.]] Mr. Gorov, be careful with the demonstrations. Guard the property! [[Radio, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u154	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! My line, Mr. Gokov, is connected to you in two directions... on the one hand I have something that I think you are right about, and another that I think you are wrong about. First of all, you're right there's no reform. There's a shortage of directions. You're right, there's no health care. There's closure of hospitals and wards. You're right, there's no hospital care, and there's misery, leaving doctors, bureaucracy, fingerprints, money, and all of that, no patients. However, you are not right in one.. is not the moving politicization of the system. It is very obvious and very open. This thing I got on Monday. [[shows the plastic bag]] giving blood in a blood bank in a hospital. And what was my surprise when some of the props inside were packets of GERB. This is your reform. [[Shows packets of sugar with the inscription "GERB". The excitement, the laughter, the lines.]] This is your reform. That's what you do in the system. This is what you give out and if this is part of the Bulgarian reform, so, Mr. Gokov, you are wrong. This is what you give to people who give blood in Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u155	Thank you, Mr. Gorov. And please don't advertise political parties from the stands. [[Loud noise and lines, calls.]] Next line, third line? I won't. Pinhole Mr. Gokov, you have the opportunity to respond to the two lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Bayraktarov, I'm a left-handed person, so I share my thoughts. [[Loud laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u157	Quiet, please! Let's hear the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u158	I'm glad for the joy I'm bringing to you. You all know what I'm talking about. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Bajraktarov, I, besides that these are my thoughts, these are the thoughts of the hundreds and thousands of people I meet in the country, in my receptions and meetings and so on. The fact that something was written in Standard and you in my five-minute speech read a sentence that was written in Standard, well, it's true. Or are you saying that the newspapers do not live with the pulse of time and do not reflect people's visions and their worries that Bulgarian healthcare collapses and is ruined and you finish it?! Because you're limiting people's lives with these directions and so on. So much for that, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mr. Gorov, you surprised me a little with this demonstration here, from the stands. In fact, you didn't surprise me with this. I have other examples in this direction. I don't see where Mr. Gorov is. [[Noise and lines.]] I have to tell you that in recent days, even months on the Internet, many pictures of public administrations have been turned, in which the client pens with which the forms are filled out and signed are with GERB emblem. The fact that the packages that give out at the blood donation have sugar on GERB does not surprise me. Perhaps there should also be a packet of mustard on which there is the emblem of the Reformation Bloc to know the people who end their lives and make their lives bitter in combination GERB and the Reformation Block. I can continue to develop the theory in this direction for a very long time, only very soon what you are trying to do You see the visible proclaim them, and the invisible you leave them in the background, but very soon these invisible results, including the bags of various bags, with pens in various services with emblems of political parties...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u159	Please stick to the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u160	That was my line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u161	The theme is health care!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u162	They will make these invisible results very visible to the Bulgarian people. And then these series of decisions that you apply right will shake this government to the ground. And if this vote doesn't pass, consider there's next, and then there's next. And if they don't pass, the opposition that is in the opposition of the people outside will bring you down this government. And he's not gonna make it through his term! [[Noise and lines from GERB: "Venseremos! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u163	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Next request for a speech "Semir Abu Melih, the people's representative. You have the floor, Mr. Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can you give me the floor first?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u165	Now you have the floor to speak. Then you can request the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u166	Mr. Chairman, dáli him sugar, wanted a candy bar and complained about the National Assembly's stand. This isn't serious. The debate is about Bulgarian healthcare. I'm starting over. Honourable Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today, the vote of distrust... I haven't read the motives at all, because I know what you're writing is parlama. [[Radio.]] But today I listened very carefully to your chairman, I listened very carefully to Dr. Ademov. They both gave a conceptual "one as a political force what they want in health care, and Dr. Ademov also said conceptually what he wanted in health care. What's interesting? Mr. Mikov accuses the Minister of implementing DPS policy, and the DPS accuses the Minister of fulfilling your policy. You say to him: "You are liberal, you encourage private, e.g. the health market as a total trade. We want you to be tough. They stand up and say to him, "You're strict. You do centralization, you administer the entire process. You two political powers, how you gathered on a document to ask for a vote of no confidence, is not clear to me because you want one, and they want a whole different one. Nothing to do with their request. And if the minister falls today, what will you choose next? Let's see! [[Laughter and excitement in the hall.]] Nothing! Again, like the last term, you're going to be spinning around here... The vote of mistrust is nothing but a small attempt to show the Bulgarians that you are opposition to you. As a matter of fact, there is nothing wrong with that. That's how it's done. Today is the day when you could have a dialogue with the Minister, apart from criticizing him. I understand that you have to criticize yourself. You are an opposition, but to have a dialogue, to tell him: "And we are interested in the future of health, because you have voters too. And they have voters. Anyone who wants to vote against the minister has voters. That's right, it wasn't supposed to be like this. Once again, I implore you, unite once and for all in the name of this cause of health care. What difference does it make who the minister is?! What difference does it make?! It matters where our philosophy goes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u167	So, is philosophy right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u168	So much for the no-confidence vote. Now we from GERB and I specifically, not to speak on behalf of everyone, because I have no mandate from my party, but I have remarks to the Minister and I will say them from the stand, although I will not support the vote. Some jobs, however, need to be said today. What's going on with us, Minister? First, there is a chaotic movement in reform. Go zigzag, not straight line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u169	That's what the Constitution says.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u170	Secondly, all of the industry and outside users and performers do not really know what will happen tomorrow. Every day, everything we read in the media is up to midnight. On the second day, it could be a whole new thing. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]] This isn't right. Don't applaud me. You can't reform like that. You have done the most important thing at the beginning. You have gathered and gained great confidence in yourself from the citizens. You've had a lot of ratings. And you have it, I guess, more. People trusted you and it had to be done with a clear movement, and not every day something new to work out. That's the first remark. Second remark. You do not have much choice of qualified specialists around you to give you health care solutions. I see it's back to the old system that we've known before. Always over the years, for example, 10 people start to make decisions in a variety of aspects, not experts from abroad, from other political parties. It doesn't matter where they're from, but new, fresh blood has to come in as an ideology. Not the old stuff! Some things that come out of your ministry, I see them. It's the same thing, only it's overheated and they've changed its garnish. There's no difference. With what was in Tanya Andreeva's time, I disagree! I want new, modern solutions. I'm giving you an example of the fingerprint. What happened to the fingerprint? The state turned upside down for that fingerprint. Anyone before discussing it and suggesting as an idea, did you sit down to consider what the reactions of society would be? Why go down that road? In order to have a plan ready, and if someone goes to complain, to tell them that in this and this country, problems are solved in this way, they saved this and this. The patients are already better because they've got one, two, three. And the subject is over! Not to talk about a fingerprint here for two hours. The Bulgarian, the patient is not at all concerned whether there will be a fingerprint or not. That's the problem with communication! My advice to you is: there is nothing wrong with having a committee or a council, but invite the opposition. She's got to be in it. They're not aliens, even though they're gonna be like this for a long time. [[Laughter]] I don't want to insult anyone. They should participate, give their opinion, but no nagging, technically. They may not even be political faces. Each party has to broadcast some expert. Our party has 500-600 thousand. voters. I don't know how many there are on DPS, I don't know how many there are on other parties. We think that's what's best for our constituents. And finally, we didn't have a reform, but we finally agreed. " - Why is it so complicated?! The reform in Bulgarian healthcare will not raise the rating of any party. No party will be able to take one vote more than that, because every Bulgarian knows that he is supposed to have the right to live long and live well. The state is obliged to provide this! Wrong is the concept of politicizing the topic. It doesn't have to be like this. This is my request to you. Think about it. This is important so that we do not enter into disputes that have a beginning, but do not end. What about the vaccines? With these vaccines, you scared the whole nation. Why? About what? The important thing is that they're given. Has the vaccine reached the Bulgarian child? I'm finally gonna get a shot of this vaccine to prove to you that everything's okay. [[Laughter and excitement in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u171	I'll slap you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u172	And here are the documents. You don't have arguments, maybe because you're not allowed to participate and you're starting to make every little thing of it hey. At last, nothing! That's how we get out of the common path for reform. How many more years are we gonna lose?! And why does that have to happen?! It's a third remark. I'm not an expert in health care. I've heard things here and there about health care, but I've talked to people who understand, and foreigners who have done reforms in countries. They say, "In addition to demonopolising the cassata and introducing the building model, you have no other solution. [[National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev applauded him.]] Domino-effect is the solution. When you push one, they line up everywhere. We have thousands, tens of thousands of problems. There is no option whatsoever, whatever the minister, whatever the government, whatever the parliament is to sit down and solve these 10,000 problems in one day. There's no such thing. You have to look at things conceptually. We must gather courage and say: "This is the situation, this is the way we should go. There's no other way out. This may have a bad effect today, someone may not understand it, but in 10 years you will be mentioned for good, because then the Bulgarian will get what the German gets. And he'll feel like a real European, not hanging out in the broken hospitals, giving money under the table to pay attention to him, and still living in this domesticism that he can't get out of! Why? Because this is where we sell him pink illusions. We're gonna bring back the old health care that the midwife is coming home and babysitting you?! The reality is different, and we need to wake up before we go to talk, and catch up once and for all, I repeat, ruling and opposition, with the clear vision that no political dividend will be sought here, but the better for Bulgarian healthcare will be sought! Mr. Minister, before I came, I gathered all the medical facilities in Burgas. What I'm about to tell you is because I've documented it, and there are videos of all the hospitals, hospital, hospital and so on. I told the people: I am going to the National Assembly. There is no way to vote against the Minister I am part of a party that supports this philosophy at all, but I can say your opinion. Come on, please, everybody write it down. And people sat down and wrote down everything they had to do with it and where it hurt. I'll give this to you. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I knew I wouldn't have enough. You know, Mr. Moskov, they support you, even though they have no clear vision of what will happen. They support you not because I've influenced this. Okay, let's see. The guy's on his way to try, let's see how far it goes. I'm handing this over to you. [[Sends folder to Minister Moskov]] And people want their over-liminals. [[Radio.]] That's right! The overlymits! National Health Insurance Fund [[the President signals that time has run out]] I'm done. The National Health Fund is bragging that it will not pay them for an example to those who have dared to go over the limit at all. That same system was legalized a week ago with the National Card. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u173	Thank you, Mr. Abu Melih. First line? I won't. [[The National Representative Tasco Ermenkov wants the floor in the manner of conduct. National Representative Georgi Kadiev wants the floor for speech.]] Colleagues, three people standing up and you want the floor. Who wants a line? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev, for a line. I'm told you don't have time, Mr. Kadyev. Is there another line? There are no lines. [[National Representative Hasan Ademov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Personal explanation? You recognized yourself in the general mention of the DPS? He specifically mentioned your name.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u174	Several times.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u175	Several times. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Abu Melih, there is no surprise, there is nothing strange, there is no mysticism in that BSP left Bulgaria and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms together with two independent MPs have signed the reasons of the vote of mistrust.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u177	What has offended you about this to ask for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u178	If you'll listen to me, Madam President, you'll understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u179	I listen to you very carefully and finally it turns out that I want a procedure in the manner of conduct, because you are essentially making a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u180	I didn't say a line, it's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u181	You're basically making a line so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u182	I'm not making a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u183	I keep listening to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u184	BSP left Bulgaria is an autonomous political party and are representatives of the left political spectrum, while we are a liberal party. It is natural that we have differences and these differences are clear in recent years. What unites us and in which you blame us, what unites us, is our assessment of the tragic state of the health sector at the moment. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] I am sure and I am convinced that you shyly, silently, a little bit under a Surdine also support this assessment, but because you are part of the ruling majority and you said it, do not dare say it bravely from this parliamentary tribune. Everything else, Mr. Abu Melih, is very simple. You know that the model that Minister Moskov is proposing is wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u185	Mr. Ademov, you don't have a line. We heard you, I didn't understand... [[Replications. People's representative Abu Melih wants the floor.]] It's a personal explanation. In a personal explanation, he must address that MP, and there is no way that this can happen without mentioning his name. You will wait for Mr. Ermenkov's procedure, then you will do the procedure in the manner of conduct. We're listening, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u186	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable Members, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct to remind you that if one of the Members of the National Assembly fails to fulfil his duty under the Rules of Procedure, you should remind him. Otherwise, statements from the stands no matter how meaningful they may be in their part, however futuristic they may be in another part, however unusual in some of their reasoning, lose their weight and importance if, after such a statement, there is doubt that the speaker is in conflict of interest. For this reason, we ask very much, and as a parliamentary group, including we ask you, Madam President, if you think there are such cases, and the people's representative has not made the appropriate statement........................................................................... that there is........... that there is no, you will remind him............................................................................................................................................. Otherwise, there are statements that could be interpreted as a word protection of a particular business without any protection of the public interest. Since this is one of the things that we always have to protect the public interest, so there is also this rule. I urge you to invite those who have a conflict of interest to declare them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u187	Mr. Ermenkov, and you listened so carefully to Mr. Abu Melih. I am surprised that, at the end of the speech, many colleagues who are doctors have spoken in the debate so far, as is customary. Why now, at the final of the debate? I didn't see that coming. Normally, I'm always prepared for your procedures in the manner of conduct, but... Until the end of the debate, I will abide by what you have called me to. [[National Representative Semir Abu Melih wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] And you want the way you conduct yourself. Tell me, Mr. Abu Melih. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] Colleagues, I have no information on who has what hospitals to personally call.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u188	Madam President, the fact that I am telling the truth from the stand, I think that by no means gives colleagues the right to use any tricks, to deceive all MPs, that you have any idea what to do in health care. You don't know where you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u189	Do you have a conflict of interest or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u190	To me. The procedure is for me, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u191	I've been in conflict of interest?! I don't care at all! [[Replying and shouting from BSP LB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u192	To me, Mr. Abu Melih.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u193	I'm telling you the truth, because I'm not in conflict of interest and because this cop method won't end with you and it won't end. That's why you're in opposition. Instead of sitting down and saying thank you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u194	What are you calling me, Mr. Abu Melih?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u195	Madam President, he's been talking here for an hour and I couldn't understand what he was saying. Finally in my bell tower.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u196	You have a procedure towards me in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u197	That man shouldn't have been given the floor, Madam President! [[Radio, loud laughter, applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u198	He said he didn't care about conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u199	Because he didn't speak. The call was for those who came to speak. Those who will speak... Mr. Raynov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear Dr. Abu Melih, for me...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u201	I'm not a doctor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u202	...you'll get up. It was my pleasure to hear what you said, because after this speech I see the joyous news with you, but after that statement it turned out that the minister really stands alone, alone, with his ideas of health care, unsupported by no one except himself and his team. It became clear to everyone that even the ruling party GERB does not support this minister. This was clear last night when it was said: because the Prime Minister is behind Minister Moskov and we stand behind him. Not a word about the policies currently under way, the policies that have always been lacking by Party GERB, including in the first cabinet Borisov, when without a vision, without a strategy, relied on another minister, another holy one to take them out of the swamp of healthcare. Four ministers were replaced, three committee heads, three Casata chiefs, and the result is the same. You're going exactly the same way right now. And at the end, because it is usually said that whoever is against the minister protects economic interests. So far, I didn't see anyone for the minister. I would like to ask the Minister's questions about economic interests and who is protecting them. I won't comment on the vaccines, but I would ask about the BCJ that moved out to Turkey. I would ask how the permits for new hospitals were signed, how were the checks carried out before these permits were issued? How were the budgets of newly discovered hospitals defined? We remember the 1st cabinet budgeting without any more hospital. Now how did they define themselves? How is state property managed, Mr. Minister, on which you are a principal, or deliberately, deliberately pushing under your authority state hospitals into bankruptcy to fulfill your ultimate dream of privatization of medical institutions? I would like to ask how are 800 thousand of the Cashier paid for a drug that the importing company claims it has not introduced to Bulgaria? I would also like to ask about the scale of the parallel trade that is brewing. How do you pay money without a contract to a company that has to value the packages? There's no result of that either. I would like to ask how to order fingerprint software without legal basis for this, on your own recognition? You said, "If you don't sign in the LDC, I'll issue an order." Mr. Minister, the order was announced six months before that. There's someone here who needs to self-conceive. I'd like to ask about the famous readers last year for IDs, now for prints, next year for identity cards with chips? Right? Someone's generating, generating, generating?! How did you buy equipment? As we didn't have any, we already have seven in average one in ten million. Mr. Minister, you're on your own. And you, colleagues of the government, are not happy with what the Minister is doing. After this vote of mistrust, the responsibility for the experiment will remain entirely yours. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u203	Any lines to Mr. Raynov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Mr. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u204	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, to say that I promised to each of the majority groups yesterday and personally to Mrs Dukova that I would be brief and as collected as I speak. I'll start with this: First of all, there is no Mr. Abu Melih, but to everyone who has actually signed under the Management Program. In fact, the goal beyond what has been done so far as a legislative-normal initiative this year and this is clearly written in the Memorandum, which is currently being drawn up, together with GERB, is indeed the creation of conditions for the real development of a second building pillar of the insurance insurance company. It's a statement I make and follow, just like every other one I've ever made. It's not a secret to the majority. Now get to the point. After all I've heard, I can't catch up with you. It's a launch into the stratosphere. I sincerely hope that the truth can run fast enough, because otherwise you will somehow be cut off from reality irretrievably. I'm going to focus on the specific points of the motives the way you gave them, without the receipts for a 50-inch wire. From all this text, filled with epithets, adjectives and other things, I've subtracted ten points that a normal human consciousness can formulate as problems that you put. The way they're placed, they're actually ten untruths. Now I'm going to explain one by one why they're untruths. The first untruth or the first lie is chaos, you say. I understand what you're saying. In this case you are not prepared. Legislative initiatives; a huge number of regulations; laws that are interdisciplinary not only between a ministry and concern healthcare. Unlike what you did in 2013-2014, this may indeed seem to the unprepared brain as chaos. Do you know how many legislative actions in the field of healthcare are in your management? Do you know how much? "Fu-zero-zero-zero-nada." [[Mister Petar Moskov spits from the parliamentary tribune towards the MPs from BSP LB.]] From there on out, if we're talking about chaos... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] What's funny? What's funny? Reprove me!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u205	Mr. Minister, do not engage in dialogue and tone, the tone, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u206	I was listening carefully, Madam President, please... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Easy, easy! It's okay. No sweat, no excrement, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u207	Nobody yells at you, take it easy!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u208	Colleagues, do not allow tiredness to do bad at the end of the debate! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u209	Madam President, is it possible to ask the MPs to stick to the motto...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u210	I'm doing it with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u211	... to one of their founders Vladimir Ilic Lenin, who said: "Pitj nade meshe" because otherwise it turns out that you think you are in the vineyard of Nikola Gabrovo and not in the Bulgarian parliament. Behave yourself in the place where you behave. [[BSP LB's rumbling, noise and disapproving lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u212	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u213	Yeah, yeah, that's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u214	Mr. Minister, please have the floor on the notes to the vote. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u215	What's wrong? Say it, say it! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u216	The notes to the vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u217	I'm moving on, Madam President. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u218	Colleagues, please! [[Noise and disapproving lines from BSP LB.]] Do you hear me calling for the same thing? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u219	Easy, easy! [[Noise and lines in BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u220	Colleagues, take your seats! Mr. Minister, let's get our emotions under control. Colleagues, we're at the finals of the debate. Please order in the court! [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Please take your seats and don't shout out of place. Mr. Ermenkov! [[Noise and lines in BSP LB.]] I made a few remarks to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u221	May I continue, Madam President? I'm sorry if I violated the order of the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u222	Yes, but take it easy, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u223	So about the legal chaos. [[Noise and lines in BSP LB.]] Perhaps there is some other definition of the way of acting.. not as a vineyard, not as a parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u224	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u225	Thank you, Madam President. So speaking of legal arrangements and clarity which is next - this Parliament adopted a Strategy for the Development of Bulgarian Health. Let's say it was one of the documents required as preliminary ideas for accession 2007. Why did this one accept it is a question to which importers should answer. On the basis of the Strategy, the government has developed a concept for the development of health care. The concept contains and derives from it, from its implementation, the relevant regulations....... laws and regulations.............................................................................................. It's not complicated at all. If someone just bothers to read the Strategy they voted on, then read the concept approved by the government. I mean, talking about regulatory chaos is at least not good. But I say again, I understand. Since you couldn't work out a year and a half, not a single document and two documents seem chaotic to you. Second lie, restricted access. The legislation, the government's measures, the actions led to limitation of access. Now let's have short access parameters. In the past 2015 our management finalized the efforts of a more previous management in the full but complete assembly of Bulgarian hospitals with radiation therapy equipment and upgraded it with radiosurgery equipment. Here it was asked and it was said: "You filled hospitals with equipment, that you can do. Why couldn't you? This is bad for Bulgarian citizens to have a technique for which they have so far travelled abroad and paid out of their pocket, and now they have in Bulgaria, provided by this bad country and paid by their National Fund?! That's reduced access. Are you really going to tell that to your constituents? After that. In the approved by the Supervisory of the Cashier we are talking about the results of a policy that has been conducted which has been poor and reduced access........................the Framework Contract project, that is the position from which the state and the Casa will not give up. Things in hospital care look like this. Quoting the parameters of the....... 641 thousand more directions for a specialist in the hospital aid for acute conditions. Six hundred forty-one thousand more directions that Bulgarian citizens will be able to use from April to conclude the framework contract and a service contract if it does not come to that! This is a bright parameter of..... access to healthcare. Two hundred and thirty-six thousand preventive reviews for children in different ages with guaranteed funding more than the previous ones that guarantee the Children's and Mother's Health Programme for the amount of preventive examinations that children prepared by you should have, but left aside somewhere. When this government, our government provides the opportunity for the Bulgarian citizens to use these directions, they should be accompanied by the corresponding number of studies that their doctors, the good Bulgarian doctors appoint them. From April until next April, i.e. on an annual basis, over five million more studies have been financed and paid by the Cassate for the Bulgarian citizens, free of charge, and they are not chaotic, but are in the areas for which they should be affected by the Strategy, which you ladies and gentlemen have adopted. Blood tests, urinalysis, general studies of cholesterol and its factions, something that all cardiologists say is that at the heart of early detection of heart disease, the largest impact factor for mortality and disability, all tests for diabetes, blood sugar, blood glucose profile, glycated haemoglobin, tumour markers studies for prostate in men and mammographs in women, with which an increase in numbers we actually provide funding for our own legal documents ever adopted by some very competent and non-chaotic people who have said that every man over a certain age should undergo such research and every woman of a certain age should do a mammography. This is provided by this management. The poor, incompetence, diminishing and limiting access. How can I say, there is a story about what the main package and the extra package looked like, and that would damage, someone would pay for something. How did you know that? You in hospitals outside Government I don't know if you've been there, but now I'm going to quote you on the publication of the Ministry's website Ordinance on the implementation of the right of access. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Excuse me? [[Noise and lines.]] That is, the one published on the website of the Ministry of Health once again, for the more curious, Ordinance on the exercise of the right of access to medical care. There is the new text written in connection with the separation of packages. Your concern is about patients' access to the next one is splitting the packages. It says that the health insured persons in the Republic of Bulgaria have the right to receive medical care within the scope of the basic and additional package of health activities provided by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, guaranteeing every health insurance treatment available in accordance with the development, severity and severity of the disease concerned. This is written in the legal document issued by this bad management, which has thus far reduced access, and now guarantees people what it says in the Access Regulation. And since you can't argue with the facts anymore, it's obvious that you can't argue, because go tell the citizens in Vidin, where yesterday we found invasive cardiology that their access has been reduced. Go! [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u226	Who paid for it? Who, who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u227	Wait, wait! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] And these bills I'll show you who paid and you'll see who, what, and what he paid for. Anyway... So... [[(Noise and lines from BSP LB. (Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.)]] That is, both there and Vidin obviously has reduced access, according to the gentlemen. Anyway... [[Replication by MP Mihail Mikov: One year delayed......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A line from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] From there on out, let me say this... [[(Loud noise and lines. Replica from the National Representative Mihail Mikov:]] Pitt next to me! [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] From there on out, to take away your opportunity... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB. National Representative Tasco Ermenkov is going to the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u228	[[BSP LB, away from microphones]] : The National Assembly should not insult the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u229	Mr. Ermenkov...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u230	What does that mean? Did you swallow your meds this morning, huh?! [[Loud noise and lines.]] You slut! [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u231	Aww. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u232	Mr. Ermenkov, please! Mr. Ermenkov! [[Loud noise and lines.]] I'm making you a note of disorderly conduct in this Chamber, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u233	That's what I'm talking about. Nerves. Toothy faces. Spit! That's it! [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u234	Mr. Secretary!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u235	I speak calmly to you... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. Crashing banks.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u236	Mr. Secretary, just a moment. Colleagues, if no order is put in place in this Chamber, I will interrupt the sitting, which means on Saturday a special session for the vote. Please, just a little more patience. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Please, Mr. Secretary...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u237	Yes, I promise, Madam President. And since the facts cannot be argued with, and so that you cannot speculate with the words what will be the main one, I am not far from putting an additional change in the Law with which to deprive you of the opportunity and speculate with the words, because the facts clearly cannot be changed anymore. The third lie, the high level of personal expenses for the health of Bulgarian citizens according to the World Bank Report. It has already been said that you are based on facts of a World Bank report based on analyses carried out in 2007 and 2008. Please don't do this! Next, fourth lie. The health insurance law compromises the health insurance model. The state, you see, does not pay its debts in full for the groups it provides. I'm sorry, but that's no longer misunderstand, that's malicious. This country, the country that this majority has broadcast, for the first time since the introduction of the health insurance system has clearly signed in law.. these people, this majority have signed in law how the country's commitment increases to the full. It follows that this year alone, the additional commitment through transfers from the State to the Cashier was increased by 66 million. This is not the only commitment of the state to health education is also the budget of the Ministry of Health, which funds certain medical activities.. not structures, not administration, that is also a lie. Next statement. Service, arbitrary and without criteria ways of concluding a contract with medical institutions and revealing new medical facilities. The objectiveness of the system of rules and grounds for contracts and for opening new medical institutions is guaranteed by the institutions detailed in the laws that you voted for. To recall these are the Council of Ministers, these are the institutions - members of the National Card Commission, namely every word organization of doctors, dentists, nurses, the Association of Municipalities, from there comes the supervision of the Casa, that is, employers, trade unions. That is to say, in your claim, your doubt is that each one of these institutions -- parts of the trilateral dialogue -- of each decision of the state chosen by you -- is actually making a decision subjectively, voluntarily and without clear criteria. This is absolutely unacceptable to me and means, in fact, saying that a state, bodies, non-governmental, trade union, employer, state, does not exist, that is, it is not meaningful.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u238	Minister, so far 15 minutes, please a little shorter as arguments. We have another item on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u239	Okay. Thank you, Madam President. Now the most interesting. Financial restrictions imposed in 2015 creating the inability of medical institutions to provide medical assistance. I quote from your motives. It's a serious lie, and here it needs punishment with comparative analysis. The health-insured patients, i.e. unlimitedly funded hospitals and the funds you provided to the medical institutions with the 2014 budget, prepared by you, and these are facts, here is your finance minister, somewhere in your country is the Prime Minister and so on. The Commission 472 million. BGN 462. Our poor restrictive, non-financing management and majority for 2015 recorded in this paragraph 3 billion. Twenty-six million. BGN 773. The difference between the two is 554 million more, which the bad, bad, health-funded and incompetent government has provided compared to what you have provided. Now on the level of hospitals. For hospitals you have provided in your budget 1 billion 17 million, against a billion 523 million, respectively, in the budget of this bad government. Now let's make a speculation, ladies and gentlemen! Bulgarian hospitals are 330. If you divide the difference of 506 million that our government has given in excess to the Bulgarian hospitals, you will get that compared to your management you have wronged by a million and 600,000. every single hospital. Half of the hospital's expenses are for labor and wages. That means you've paid 750,000. less at each hospital for work and salary and 750 thousand. less to treat people. So much for this government. [[blows down the stands]] , this management [[blows down the stands]] and this majority [[blows down the stands]] He's putting financial pressure on hospitals! Seven. The other lie the duties of hospitals are growing, you see, in this very period. Again, a comparative analysis is needed for the period November 2013 (November 2014). I am asked because it was November of this month that this majority chose this government. However, for this period, compared to the same period 2014 - 2015. For the first period of management, hospital debts increased by 20 million. 227,000. For this same other period of management, hospital debts have decreased by 4 million and at the expense of defaults. So much for lying or being true! Eight lies to you. The management was also very bad in 2015, which is why doctors started leaving the country. When a doctor starts leaving the country, he gets a certificate from the respective ministry, which serves him for work abroad. This is again comparative. I do not like these things, however, because somehow you forgot yourself: in 2014 the issued certificates to Bulgarian doctors abroad are 468. In 2015, they were 368, 97 fewer and a quarter fewer Bulgarian doctors wished to leave the country. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Those are facts. It's not an argument. Electronic health care was only in the minister's head. Here again the chaos in someone's heads is done again because you know what you left in the field of eHealth, I know what I found. That's it. I'm reporting: what I've done is exactly following the government's management program. First, the concept of development is adopted. A roadmap of the development concept approved by the European Commission. Analysis of the business processes in healthcare in the existing infrastructure completed and approved. Made technical specifications for the implementation of specific projects that are: e-file, e-recipe, registers, legal framework and pharmacoexpert system made. Upcoming things within this year: announcing tender procedures and putting these systems into service by the end of the year. In the head of the minister or a very, very handy job? The highlight of your program is the drug policy with which I am ending, Madam President. The pharmaceutical policy, according to importers, is incompetent and aimless. These adjectives have chosen themselves. What happened in drug policy? pharmacotherapeutic guides were drawn up for some of the majors. A health technology assessment system has been put in place and those who are inside the problem know how important this is. The Ordinance on Centralized Discounts on Certain Medicines was carried out, validated and acted. A consequence of this last year was 44 million additional in the budget of the Casa, which until now was part of the turnover and respectively the profit of the pharmaceutical industry, and for this year the estimates and contracts that the Casa has with this industry will be 65 million. This is pointless for you. I know that you and I have different goals. That money could've been in the Cashier by now. Here, rather, my question to you is why they didn't and where they were going? Because that's not racketeering the industry. It's a contract between a respectable industry and a respectable government where there are no deals under the table. But that has to be understood. You philosophically don't understand it. You're talking about the price corridor. Let's explain about the people who aren't doctors and some of the doctors in this room. The price corridor is actually one of the main recommended mechanisms for progeny policy and for reducing the rise in drug prices and the additional payment of patients for medicines recommended by the European Commission to Member States. The European Commission recommends governments to deal with the pressure of pharmaceutical companies. In the price corridor the other name is a clown (Clawback) system. This means robbing, reducing, pressure on profits along the chain, resulting in a legal framework, which does not pay the patient more than a certain ceiling for the payment of the drug. This first is a social measure. Do you understand what I'm saying? Social! Then it is a pro-generic measure, for which every member of parliament has signed with both hands that the state should introduce a pro-generational policy. That means a price corridor. If this seems aimless to you, we have different goals. My goals are: the additional payment of patients to be with a certain ceiling and if you allow yourself to sell medicines above this ceiling when there is a geneticist, then you leave the positive list accordingly. Whose interests do you think I can't remember? You were talking about the centralized platform. Let me say: every test of the centralised platform for e-commerce of medicines in hospitals has already been done and we are currently collecting requests from hospitals position in position. This means the following: that for each hospital the state has already requested, I hope that the municipal and private to whom we have sent the letters must be crazy not to do so, join this centralised position. This means that when you collect all the needs of a particular antibiotic of all those hospitals that have appeared, you say the total number................................................................................. No cartel, no deal. That leaves the hospital free money that was going to get the meds. Who was it that explained that it was centralized, I don't know what kind of pharmacies, I don't know what else? I mean, it's good to run hospitals through irregular auctions. I'm coming, Mrs. Dukova. I promised... In short: this vote was not put as a health vote. The vote is placed because the structures that have dug deeply economically and financially into the Bulgarian health care feel threatened. They feel threatened because I showed it to you on a daily basis because these 36 million people who go to hospital are being won by schemes in the industry. That's why they can go to people as directions and research. So these structures feel threatened. That's why it's the last fight. That is why this is about protecting economic interests whose political representation is clearly you. Thank you. I thank each of the groups that expressed support for government policies. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u240	Colleagues, I'm closing the debate. As we voted this morning in the adoption of our weekly Programme, the vote on the motion for no-confidence vote will take place on Friday at 9:00. Thank you, Minister, for participating in the debate. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: THE SECOND READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR HIGH MOVEMENT. Colleagues, please don't leave the hall, it's second reading!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u241	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I ask that we vote first on admission to the House of the Deputy Minister of Education and Science. Nikolai Denkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u242	Colleagues, we're voting. Vote 95 MPs: 91, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u243	Report on the second vote of the General Law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act, No 553-09-27 of 1 December 2015, drawn up on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, on the basis of the laws adopted on 26 November 2015 on the first vote by the Council of Ministers No 554-01-84, submitted by Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova and a group of MPs on 29 April 2015, No 502-01-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2015, No 554-01-152, submitted by Borislav Mihailov Borisov on 15 September 2015 and No 554-01-153, submitted by Borislav Lyubenov Velev and Milen Vassilev Mihov on 15 September 2015. The Law on Higher Education (Obn., SG No. 3) was amended and supplemented by the Law on Higher Education (Obn., SG No. ...) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u244	We vote on the name of the Law. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u245	Paragraph 1. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MP Borislav Borisov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev, the Commission does not support the proposal: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 1: 1. At the beginning of the paragraph, the expression "in art. 6 the following amendments and additions shall be made: 2. the current text of § 1 becomes its t. 1 as the expression "in art. 6, para. 2s is replaced by "B" para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union 3. create t. 2: "2." In para. 4 after the expression "supposed" and "supplied" is added and after the word "supplied," at the end of the text, a comma is added and a "supplied" is added to the professional standards for such studies. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 2 the final addition is added as well as business related to the main activity of the higher school under para. 1 and the realization of its research results and other objects of intellectual property.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u246	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Stoyan Mirchev, the Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 100 MPs: 14 against 51, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 1 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 84, against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u247	Paragraph 2. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Borislav Velikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Boyka Marinska. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1. The proposal has been withdrawn under paragraph 1. 2. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Stankov, the Commission does not support the proposal: In § 2, art. 9, para. 4 t. 2 the proposed version is dismissed and is replaced by the following: A proposal from the MPs Boyka Marinska, Milena Damyanova and Stephanie Mihailova, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Borislav Veliev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3: (a) c. 3 after the word "instituti" is added "departments of higher schools abroad" (b) c. 6: (aa) the point (s) is amended as follows: On a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, the number of students and PhD students accepted for training in state universities, for which the state provides funds for the maintenance of their education, in accordance with para. 4,............................................................. (bb) a new point (b) shall be created: (b) on the proposal of the Minister of Education and Science on the basis of the proposals of the state universities, the number of students accepted for training for remuneration in them, with the exception of those adopted in accordance with art. 21, para. 2 and 3, in accordance with the capacity of the higher school, the professional directions and the specialties of the regulated professions in it; (c) the previous letters (s) and (c) shall be respectively letters (s) in (e) and (g) respectively; (c) c. 9 after the word "Qualification" is added "For recognition of the degree acquired abroad," corresponding to the educational and scientific degree "Doctor." (d) shall be established. 16: ..16. adopt a list of priority professional directions and a list of specialties. 2. They're creating an al. 4? 10: The number of students and PhD students accepted for training under para. 3, p. 6 (a) is established by state universities, in professional fields, in specialities of regulated professions and in forms of training, depending on: 1. the assessment of the academic and scientific activities; 2. the data on the realization of graduates and PhD students; 3. priorities for the socio-economic development of the country; 4. The stated readiness of the state universities for the training of a certain number of students and PhD students in accordance with the capacity of the university, the professional directions and the specialties of regulated professions in it. (5) The specific conditions and order for the validation of the number of students and PhD students admitted for training under para. 4 and the order for the formation of the valuation under para. 4 t. 1 shall be determined by an act of the Council of Ministers. (6) The number of students enrolled under para. 3, p. 6 (b) in professional fields and specialties of regulated professions for each state university shall be established as the difference between the number of students under § 4j, para. 1, t. 1 of the Additional Provisions and the established number of students under para. 3, p. 6 (a) in professional fields and specialties of regulated professions for each state university for the relevant school year. (7) Certain professional directions by the classifier under para. 3, p. 4 shall be defined as priority and separate specialties of professional directions shall be defined as protected in accordance with the requirements of § 4e, i.e. 9 and 10 of the Additional Provisions. (8) The list of priority professional directions and the list of protected specialties shall be adopted by the act of the Council of Ministers under para. 5. (9) A higher number of students and PhD students under para. can be established for the priority professional directions and for the protected specialties. 3, p. 6 (a) (b) (c) (ii) (ii) (iii) and (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 4 t. 4 of the relevant state university in accordance with the capacity of the higher school, the professional directions and the specialties of the regulated professions in it. (10) For newly opened professional directions and specialties from regulated professions for which there is no data on the realization of graduates and PhD students, the number of students and PhD students accepted for training under para. 3, p. 6 (a) on the basis of an assessment of the needs of the labour market developed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, together with the Ministry of Education and Science and the relevant ministries.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-17.u248	Colleagues, there's no time for speeches. Are there any speeches? There's Mr. Bojinov. The debate is open, but the speech will be on tomorrow as we enter into time after 2:00. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session with an opening hour "9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
