ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! Please take your seats, registration is pending. I'm opening the session. [[Ringing]] There is a quorum. We continue with the point that we did not finish at yesterday's plenary sitting, and it is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE STATEMENT OF THE COMMUNICTIC REGION IN BULGARIA FOR CRIMINAL. The debate was opened yesterday and we are now continuing. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Bojinov. After him are Mr. Lachezar Ivanov, Tasco Ermenkov, Methodie Andreyev and Atanas Atanasov. If you don't mind, let's alternate groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In yesterday's speech the people representative Yanaki Stoilov started with an apology to his voters and I think he did the right thing. [[Loud noise.]] To ask you to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u3	I'm asking for order in this room, please take your seats. If you have conversations, go outside and lead them. When there is a vote, I will inform you in a timely manner. [[Noise.]] Mr. Velchev, please. Mr. Velchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u4	Mr. Chairman, I started by saying that in yesterday's speech Yanaki Stoilov stressed that he apologized to his voters. And good thing you did, because Janaki Stoilov was forced to harness all his intellectual power. [[noise, cheering]] and historical credibility to respond to an undisputed confession of political helplessness. Today I will not try to bring this debate back to this level. I just want to give an example to call on those who bring flowers to different monuments to unite and reject this proposal at this time. I'm facing a representative from the town of Byala Slatina, a respected person. He will confirm that in the last 5 years different compositions of the Municipal Council of Byala Slatina, and various mayors, in the constant support of the public, adopted a decision to make a revolutionary, a member of the Bulgarian Communist Party and an anti-fascist, an honorary citizen of the town of Byala Slatina. They decided to name him the central square, erected him a monument. There are flowers there for no reason. What do you gentlemen want to put a sign on the monument and under the name of the square? And what would you like to write there? Whatever you write about the activity of the individual is of no practical importance. It is true that the text of this sign will be an assessment for those people who acknowledge the specific historical personality. What do you want to tell them? That they're insane, clueless, ideally misdirected, or what else?! At the same time, there is another monument in Sofia, in which the name of the person who shot the seven children in Hawtrebino is honored. There are flowers there, too, sometimes. Wear them! But who brings memory and flowers to whom and where, tells more about it. I ask you, by asking you to extend the time I call you, so that everyone can express themselves to both of us, to reject this bill because it is disgraceful! [[Noise and lines.]] I asked for a time extension. Be careful, I said it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u5	Oh, yeah, thanks. Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u6	I call on you to speak to all those you wish and to reject this Bill, because it will be a stain on this Parliament, it will be historically incorrigible, unfair and unnecessary. I graduated!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. - What's the line? There aren't any. Followed by Mr. Lachezar Ivanov from the parliamentary group of GERB party. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I believe that our society needs this Bill, because every political time gives an assessment and an impression of the past. I believe that we, as responsible politicians, should give our assessment. Whether it is right or wrong, it will be proven later in history, but we are obliged to our children to tell the truth about what it was. And here perhaps one of the most political topics separating society in the last twenty years is precisely the assessment of the former communist regime. This is where I put a dividing line on who lived and who evaluated the past. Yesterday our colleagues showed the attitude of the people on the left and we who are on the right. The public has always been divided on this subject, but I would like to share some personal impressions of this past time. This past time divided society into two worlds. There were two worlds where one lived in luxury, lived in wealth, in opportunities. And when I say opportunities here, I say opportunities from birth to the educational system. Much of the left-wing attendees and the first to speak were in the possibility of becoming an MP at the age of 20 and being in the Grand National Assembly. But I want to tell you that people who didn't have characteristics, I'm already speaking first person, couldn't get into the Medical Academy, and after graduating, they were distributed to the so-called priority areas. That is why I can say in person on the first name, because when I was offered once again to become a member of the party and I refused, I will not forget that the distribution said to me: Comrade Ivanov, if you want to eat in the future, you should join the party. I said, "What do you mean?! If you want between two slices of bread to have a steak, you should join the party. Otherwise, you will eat two slices of bread. [[Audience in BSP LB.]] Yeah, don't laugh, I can tell you the name. I've got this thing sealed off, and to this day, I remember it. That's why I said: you go first in the revival process when you were in Razgrad. I remember that very well. For you it's a laugh, I lived in the center of Sofia and went to the quarter. It's an eagle. These are personal impressions. I'll tell you something else about these two parallel worlds. When you were Chernobyl, ladies and gentlemen, never, I'm a doctor, and I'm from such a family, and my sister, and everyone else... It was then hidden from society about the damage it would do to our society. Then, however, notice, there was a secret gram in the CCP of the BCP, where all members of the Central Committee received special food and were brought food. Now laugh, but it's true. I can tell you what happened at the hospital. I can tell you that there was a chief inspector in the army who was fired for making the army carry special food so that it could be protected from Chernobyl's damage. That same officer was fired. Yeah, yeah, think about it, and you'll remember that. The army was protected. I say all these examples of this division of society of rightful and rightless, for those who had to eat in a special way and be treated in a special way. Should I remind you that there were special medicines, if you do not know, to tell you, by a special regulation were written for the rightful communists, for those who are on the high levels of the party. Gentlemen, you mustn't forget this! I'm going to return the tape a little while longer since you're forgetting things that are from our time, not from history, not from the camps. I'm talking about the time of the rebirth process and about the last one I have a memory of. Why don't I see anyone from the DPS coming out here saying, "Isn't that a violation, isn't that the destruction of their own people?" When there was a provision in the CCP to the Razgrad County Committee of the Party and in particular to hospitals how to proceed with women of Turkish origin. I'll stop here. I can talk to you a lot. This topic will keep us apart in the future. Therefore, I think that after 20 years it is time to find some first reconciliation, I say the word 'peace', to accept fate, to accept the challenges that life currently presents to us, to learn from this experience, and I propose that this Bill be adopted so that the Bulgarian people can remember and never allow such division in the society of people who have the right to live, to eat, to breathe cleaner air than others who were the gray mass and had to work as bees and to give national domestic product. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to support this Law, and perhaps this will give us some, as they say, reconciliation and approval from those who are not among us. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, since you have asked a question to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, wouldn't someone from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms get up to say yes will happen, Mr. Ivanov, and we will take account of this bill not only because of what you have shared, but also because of our overall attitude towards the communist regime and the crimes that he has committed with regard to the Turkish and Muslim community in Bulgaria all these years. So don't worry, we're waiting our turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u11	Thank you. Second line? There aren't any. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u12	Thank you. And I was expecting a line from a representative from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, for which I thank you. I am also obliged to apologize to Mr. Stanishev for the revival process, if you have forgotten, to the former Chairman of the Party of Rights and Freedoms. I think it's dignified, and right now you're going to turn away from your actual former party president, from what you apologized to him, is somehow today unworthy. [[BSP LB]] as well as what you did yesterday with the differentiated rate. I'm not surprised at your views right now because... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Yeah, yeah. Thank you. I see that when a man has nothing to say, he usually attacks. I said that I think that right now the most correct behavior is humility and an excuse to all those to whom the BCP have been least repressive and unfair. That's the softest thing I can say from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u13	Thank you for the tunic, Mr. Ivanov. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please! Next, Ivan Stankov of the ABB Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The ABB Parliamentary Group will not support the proposed bill. The considerations for this are as follows. First of all, we believe that such a Law has already been passed and there is no need for amendments and additions at the moment, especially on the grounds presented by importers. Secondly, Mr. Lachezar Ivanov says that we have been very separated. That's true. During that time we were divided into our own and foreign, and it was a big mistake. There was a demand for the responsibility of the people of the party and outside the party, for the actions of close people, of their friends, all these things are recognized as mistakes, made adjustments. Those who have sinned are punished. However, I believe that with the proposed Bill and with everything that is happening in our country, the division is much greater. I think that if we have to do something, we should go not to division, not to what is being proposed. We must unite our efforts and seek consensus solutions to solve the numerous problems in the country. Thirdly, as a motive, I would like to point this out: in no case should this part of the history of Bulgaria be deleted. This is history, fellow Members! It can't be a black spot! I've lived and created most of this period, I have my own creative achievements, as well as many other people. All of this needs to be liquidated, crossed out, not to talk about it. I think that whenever an assessment is made, we should talk about the positive and the negative. A lot of the negatives have been said. Negatives are a clear totalitarian regime, dictatorship of proletariat and other things, snitches and whatnot. But that during that period there was a huge construction, there was agriculture, there was industry, there was work for people, I think these things shouldn't be kept quiet, they should be said. So I think this is a serious motive not to adopt this Bill, not to mention these topics for 27 years after this transition has been made and to look for the things that can really unite us and lead to us building our economy. Dear colleagues, the problems of our country are enormous. I think it's a much more criminal period since 1989. There is something very positive about freedom, democracy, opening borders, the fall of the iron curtain, freedom of speech. That's the good stuff. But look what happened to our economy, look at the situation with people! They don't want that right now, they want us to say what we're doing, how we're going to build our economy, what our priorities are further. The state has no clarity and we have to go to a very serious analysis, do an analysis of what has been made as mistakes during this period and really make the National Round Table, set priorities, have clarity. We are talking market economy and free market. What market economy is this, where is the free market? We have many, many things to solve, much more pressing problems. And that's what we have to do. In fact, I think we should make a government of national agreement. Let's stop this opposition! Let's unite, put national interests above everything else, define our ideals. Is it there right now? We're talking about the ideals of the Renaissance. Some things have been achieved, but some things haven't. Time is different and there must be new ideals. This is what we need to talk about and think about and work in this direction. So I appeal not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u15	Thank you, Professor Stankov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov. For the second line Mr. Lachezar Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Stankov, I would like to ask you, there are really many young colleagues in ABB, really democratic and objectively thinking, let's hear their voice. I hope the ABB speaks with their voice, not the voice of the past. Colleague Stankov, as you know, anti-communism has its modern dimensions, I will immediately give you an example. For example, the electronic vote on which the ABB supported us and together we implemented it so that all our compatriots abroad could not line up like the old days, as they were waiting for bananas in front of embassies, but that they could vote electronically from a place where they were located. This with the modern dimensions of anti-communism and there ABB behaved well and supported us, and now at the same time you are doing a parallel for a past that we do not discuss and so on. That's not the answer, colleague Stankov. The fact that we have important tasks in front of this Parliament is undeniable, but that can only mean to me that we will work more if we have to, and overtime, and we will solve all the problems. Therefore, let the voice of young people, of the future speak in you, not the voice of the past and of State Security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u18	Dear Mr. Stankov, I listened carefully to your speech. You said that all those who committed crimes have suffered their responsibility and punishment. I have to tell you, I have never seen anyone in charge of the rebirth process that was actually condemned. I am talking about crimes against the Bulgarian people. I would like to ask you a question because you said that most of your development had actually passed in the period before November 10th. You've managed to create, to create scientific works. I want to ask you how many were and who had the opportunity to manifest themselves in the field of science, which are not party members and who could grow careers as now is modern? Do you know how many people were squashed, I'm talking again about my class, who were without a party ticket and who didn't have the right political position? They were crushed, I can tell you about colleagues who were removed from Sofia and sent to other small municipalities to treat, and to operate in particular, which I am talking about. Because you say it was an opportunity. Only those entitled with a red ticket were given the opportunity. Other people moved with characteristics before applying for a job, the characteristic went before them, regardless of their abilities and abilities. You can't forget that. As for now, what you have set as an example, yes, now society is free and only forging its future. Moreover, the economic development of the state cannot be determined by party directives... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Please make a statement later, don't yell at me from there!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u19	Mr. Jablyanov, calm down, calm down!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u20	What can I say, it shows who were sons and pets of the previous regime. Their daughters and sons continue to protect the system, although most of them are currently working and studying in the United States, including the chairman of BSP left Bulgaria. So do your own bill for the rightful and the wrong-doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Your time is up. Thanks for the line. Third line? There aren't any. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u22	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Thank you to Mr. Petar Slavov and Lachezar Ivanov for the lines they made. I said in advance, yesterday Mr. Stoilov also very clearly and just said that there were mistakes. These mistakes are recognized, conscious, but should we continue with this division that we are talking about? Can we assume that everything right now is normal, that with this change we've made, we've achieved some peaks? Look at what's going on in the country! Look at our Bulgarian villages, what is the situation with them. I live in the village now, I was born in the country. I have to tell you, there are old people just waiting to hear the bell who died waiting on the miserable pensions. What is said in folklore, there is no lamb to shine, there is no chicken to sing in the villages. All of this is happening now. And what you're saying is that there really was some discrimination, but that was probably at the beginning of the period. Because I can give you examples of many people who had a bad biography and realized themselves in a very good way at the time. A popular name at my Thracian university is the name of Professor Tsanko Jablanski. His father owns businesses, rich. He wasn't accepted as a member of the party, but Professor Jablanski became a professor at the time. And not a few cases I can point out to you on those who have realized themselves. I have been a member of the party, but I have never held a leadership position, but I have followed all these events very closely. So there were negatives, they were recognized, but there were many, many positive things that we need to recognize. When I appeal to you for this, I'm telling you we shouldn't go back, we shouldn't go back in history! Let us put an end to this opposition, to this rematchism, and look for what brings us closer together, to respond to this. Because that's exactly what we need right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u23	Thanks for the douche. I can't give you in the back, I can only give you the floor in a statement. I'll give you one if you want, but we have to follow the rules. The way you're holding Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague, you have taken over the topic of our parents, pensioners and people who work in the country. I think you know very well as a man who lived in the country that most of these people receive the so-called agricultural pensions. Who defined them and how were they defined? Don't let it get too blurry again. The missionaries and our fathers and mothers who now receive too low pensions, who is guilty and who is responsible for the pensions that are currently being received when the entire Pension Fund was spent on the eve of November 10th? So don't open this wound here, because it will turn against you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u25	That's not the way to run it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u26	There's a host. [[BSP LB.]] Control your nerves, it doesn't help anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u27	Mr. Ermenkov, I'll give you the floor in a moment. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] I listen to it very carefully and hope to make a connection with my conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u28	Graduating, that's all I'm going to say: yes, you're right that we shouldn't split up, but before we unite, you know the old wisdom that before people unite they have to clear all positions to unite. When there are unspoken words, and as we see here there are people who hold aggression in themselves on this subject, there is no way, you see prominent representatives of the people who have been pets of this society.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u31	I'll try to keep up with some factual significance and follow the thoughts of the speakers. Mr. Mestan, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u32	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The assessment of the historical past can only divide societies that have not learned the lessons of the past. In this sense, I do not accept the thesis that the discussed bill divides today's Bulgarian society. No! If today's Bulgarian society is divided by the assessment of the legacy of the communist regime, this means one thing... that the relapses of the communist regime are still alive in the contemporary Bulgarian society. That's why debates today are not about the past. The debates on this bill are about today's identity of Bulgaria to the extent that it is European, to the extent that it is a real NATO state. In this sense, I do not know what the practical and legal dimensions of this Bill will be... of the existing and the draft amendment, but undoubtedly this Bill has its immense moral-political value. Debates today, for example, are about what meaning, what value there is an apology for the serious crime of the Orlov Bridge, adopted by me even with the act of the hug, as an expression of appreciation for the apology given, when just a month later, from this high tribune on which I find myself, young socialists were living as apologists of the revival process. So this apology was false, insincere, and I sincerely regret accepting an insincere apology for the revival process. Yes, the debates today are: what is Bulgaria and will it remain on its strategic path to develop as a modern European and Atlantic state? Debates today should be about, for example, that in the last few weeks we have witnessed sincere pushes of external forces to divert Bulgaria from the strategic value choice. I will remind speeches not of random factors, but of the director of the Russian Institute for Strategic Research General. Rezetnikov, who talks about two approaches to countries such as Bulgaria and the Balkans. The first approach to the conservative revolution. And the second one of the frontal attack. The aim is to remove Bulgaria from NATO and to prosecute all those Bulgarian politicians who today allow themselves to defend the values of Euro-Atlanticism. That's what the debate should be about. To have such debates in the Bulgarian Parliament, to have such debates in the morning blocks of the leading media? No, silence. Silence, which is the safest proof that what external analysts call propaganda war, call hybrid warfare not abstract expressions, but a cruel reality that we do not have a sufficiently strong democratic reflex. Can you imagine such efforts being addressed to Poland, to Hungary, to the Czech Republic? There would have been reactions right away. This would be the scandal of scandals, because when it comes to official positions that present information about official talks with presidents of systemic Bulgarian parties, we should be silent and not debate in the National Assembly means that we do not really have enough democratic reflexes that the remnants of the communist regime have penetrated deep into the fabric of the contemporary Bulgarian democratic society. And that is why I am graduating in Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic this was not possible because there the transition, the separation with the communist regime was the result of a mass universal movement, while in Bulgaria a palace coup took place on 10 November. This one was taken down, and whether he was really shot down, judging by the fact that the heiress of this party recently offered wreaths of gratitude to his monument in Pravets. And who is a modern-day Democrat and a politician who claims to defend the rights of the victims of the revival process can be in coalition with these forces and stand behind a common presidential candidacy is a matter of which...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u34	...Bulgarian citizens will respond to the next parliamentary elections. Thank you for your attention. [[Private lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u35	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Mestan, it is difficult to find logic in what you say, because your sincere outrage of the violent nature of certain regimes should extend to all regimes. When you formally meet with a representative of an authoritarian, modern regime which, according to the assessments of European institutions and politicians, violates all democratic and legal standards, violates the domestic legislation of your own country and has placed tens of thousands of citizens in prisons without trial and sentence, if you had started condemning this regime, you would have been an extremely authoritative and powerful politician. You apply not double, but you apply triple standard. You draw a knife, as the Bulgarian people say, to a dead regime, but you dare not say anything about the violent regimes in force. The same goes for most of the colleagues. You do not dare to rule against open calls for revision of the Lozan Treaty, which means revision of the borders of at least 10 countries. You don't even dare think of the scale of Mr Erdogan's mental distress. You have become, I apologize for the expression, mentor of Bulgarian democracy, or you are in danger of becoming one. [[the President signals that time has run out]] At the same time you stimulate and fuel authoritarian trends in neighbouring countries, you encourage them. And that is why your criticism of past authoritarian regimes is infinitely insincere.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u37	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Is there anyone who wants a second line? A hole? Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Zhablyanov, who has turned over and not turned over, is the only exception with regard to private constructs. You've become one, not one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u39	Please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u40	This one first. As far as the subject is concerned, in the spirit of this Law that we are discussing, you owe an answer to Cornelia Ninova's question of conversations with the General. Rezetnikov, to whom he claims that the question of Bulgaria's strategic choice to be a member of the European Union and NATO has been raised. Everything else is an attempt to transfer, to blur on this subject, to this huge blunder of blunders! Are you preparing for power? What is your geostrategic priority? To implement the Russian strategy to divert Bulgaria from NATO?! Here is the question of communist heritage, the relapses of the communist regime in modern Bulgarian society. Everything else is an attempt to blur this huge blunder! It's not gonna work. And the policy questions of other countries will be asked to their politicians. Lutvi Ahmed Mestan is a Bulgarian politician who is concerned about the risks faced by the relapses of the communist past facing modern Bulgaria, contemporary democratic Bulgaria! You're not gonna cover that up. And I call on all democratic forces to really come out of their mood and unlock their reflexes, because we are in very great danger. She's coming from the East. Thank you for your attention. [[(Noise and lines from BSP LB: Personal explanation!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u41	Thank you. There's no way I can give you, ma'am... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Don't tell me, I'll kick you out of the room. If you want to hear my explanation, be quiet. [[Applause from GERB and shouts: "Bravo to the President! "]] During the duvet, even if you are mentioned, there is no way I can give you the floor. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u42	Be polite!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u43	On behalf of a group, please come in. I'm following the Staffords. That's all I'm doing. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Mr. Ermenkov, read your rules. The only thing I do is follow the rules. On behalf of the group BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u44	Mr. Mestan, you're lying, and I have no intention of explaining the 128th time that the nomination and the choice of Gen. Radev were not placed depending on either the East or the West! This is the nomination of BSP and the Bulgarian people chose it! [[Noise and lines from GERB and RB.]] And I will not comment on the speeches, rumors or suggestions of any general from the East, neither from the West, nor from the Russian, nor from NATO, nor anyone else! This is a Bulgarian choice! General Radev is Bulgarian General and already Bulgarian President, and he has been elected by the-ro-da! Respect the people's choice! As far as BSP priorities are concerned, they are clear and unchanged from the time when BSP brought Bulgaria into the European Union to this day and in the future. Our priorities are the European future of Bulgaria! But they do not fit in with your strong, emotional and heartfelt claims of Erdogan to the Bulgarian territories that you defend as a policy in the Bulgarian Parliament! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u45	Thank you. Personal explanation, please. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Mestan, really colleagues are right in the manner of conduct, if you like, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making you a note in the manner of conduct. You know very well that on behalf of a group there can be no speeches on the topic on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u47	It was the presidential election, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u48	Okay. In this sense, I would like to remind you that in my speech, I did not mention Gen. Radev! But I mentioned Gen. Reshetnikov, whom you met and there is your big problem! You owe me some answers, ma'am! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u49	I understand, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u50	As for the borders of Bulgaria, they are sacred! And don't worry about fear, you won't win an election.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u51	Mr. Mestan, I understand your remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u52	I repeat, I wasn't talking about Gen. Radev, for Gen. Radev. Rezetnikov, who you met.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u53	Mr. Mestan, thank you. The topic was a different one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u54	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u55	Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chairman, please read the Rules not as the devil reads the Gospel. When it comes to the fact that during a replica and during a duplicate, no personal explanation is given, it is that the one to whom the reply is addressed and when it is answered cannot take the floor. However, when a duplicate mentions someone who has not been involved in this speech at all, then the reason is to give the right to a personal explanation. Read it carefully, and don't interpret it, because what you are doing right now is entering the emotional meeting at an additional moment of dismanage on your part. If you can't handle it, ask someone else to replace you. However, if you want to be principled, behave in principle. Do not give an opportunity, including one of the non-spokesmen who is speaking here on any other subject, but not on the topic of the course. So I ask you one more time, either lead the meeting properly, or give up the seat of someone who will do it better.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u57	Mr. Ermenkov, I follow the rules and do not interpret anything as beneficial to me. If you do not like the way you conduct yourself, you can leave the room. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Next statement Mr. Georg Georgiev. Here you go. [[(Reply from BSP LB: Yesterday it took place!]] The way I hold it on my back...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u58	I didn't speak, I did...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u59	Mr. Georgiev, I'll see if I have the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u60	Of course it's for you, Mr. Chairman. You're overly liberal about a pimple left-wing fanaticism that we observe from this part of the room. [[Applause from GERB. Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Please treat all the strictness of the Rules of Procedure that you have been given and correct what your fellow Members on the left are trying to impose on you right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u61	Mr. Georgiev, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u62	Please, do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u63	Mr. Emil Dimitrov next. [[Noise and lines.]] I ask for peace and quiet in the hall the topic is exciting enough. If we keep doing this, I'll give it a rest. Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to start by saying that I will make an extremely personal statement. It does not mean to offend anyone, to offend anyone. I'd be grateful, of course, if you'd listen to me. I repeat, it is not agreed with my parliamentary group, it is dictated by the debate that has happened here at the moment, and perhaps by my desire, since I am on the stand, to be able to say a few good words about my father. First of all, some historical facts. The party home you know where it is located is currently a building of the National Assembly. The CCP, next to it was the main management of the archives, the presidency today was the former State Council there was the Partition and State Control. Structures that I've often had to and visited. I want to tell you that I have a practical question. The entire ceiling in the Party House, in the Budget Committee, is covered with pentagrams. I shouldn't be going in there in an hour because there can't be symbols of communism. The whole Party House is a symbol of communism, it's called a Party Home. Does that mean we have to tear him down to please someone? Behind us is a flag full of pentagrams. Do we have to destroy it? The American flag is with five beams. Should we destroy it? As a reminder of my revision I once brought a seal on which there is a pentagram, writes the State Financial Control. My father was a communist. That was the way the man was a metallurgical all his life. He died tragically from his illness from there. If you'd asked me to, I'd have made a five-pointer on his monument. I'd have fucked her myself if I had to. He didn't want to, but it's full of pentagrams around him. Now I have to push the monuments? Do I have to go to the Party House and say, "I'm not going in because it's full of five-pointers, it's a symbol of communism?" I think we're going to one extreme to make political dividends one, the other, the third. Think about it, people, before we vote on this decision. In 1989, communism was good, bad, liked, disliked, gone. Twenty-seven years later, there have been parliaments here, people who have met maybe smarter than us, but in no case dumber than us. These parliaments did not pass a repressive law, and they remembered communism. Half of you, honourable Members, my colleagues, don't remember it because it's been 27 years. Those who were 8 or 10 years old at the time, at the moment in a restory in a picture should form a decision.... whether one is more vocal to say that it was bad, or the other is more vocal to say that it was good. Okay, all of you who will make a decision after a little bit, I say, let it be personal, do you think we are the bravest, we are the most disgusted, the most affected by communism, or are we the most determined to face communism? If we can't judge that, do you think we're the fairest and most united? Do you think that now, after 27 years, we can say, "Everything is decided, everything is studied and we have a clear opinion is good or bad?" Of course, each of you should have an opinion. But don't you think the whole truth hasn't come out yet, both positive and negative? Don't you think that 27 years after communism is gone, now that we have to take back some repressive measures that will not be dealt with to anyone, but will once again be a cause for the division of the nation, will not harm? Of course, each of you has the right to vote as you see fit and I would be happy to exercise it in the way you best understand it. But at the moment, personally, as a Member of the National Assembly, I can tell you, without taking any political position, I do not express a position of political power and I do not oppose the thoughts and ideas of my fellow Members. I still cannot judge repressive measures today with a date to the past of what they would lead to, but I am convinced that these measures, if we do not do them in the right way or with the right dose of humility, or perhaps reasonableness in repression, risk once again opposing the society of one another. In fact, I should be fighting with my father. In reality, the left must be driven with the right to an end. Whether this is the future of Bulgaria, I cannot say. Personally, I will abstain because I do not have a formed opinion and I cannot judge who are stronger in those who are at the moment, those who are still crying in the past, or those who say that the future can only begin if we kill everyone in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u65	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go, Mr. Slavov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My fellow Member, when I was listening to you, at first I wondered if you had ever read the Bill. But when I heard the last words you said that he was repressed and so on, I made sure that you didn't read it. By the way, for the last time, I'm explaining to myself how very often you don't read the bills we're discussing, you're blanquetting, including you're importing bills that I'm guessing you haven't read in the same way. Otherwise, to this day, I can't explain why you forbid people six months a year to cook homemade brandy...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u67	On the subject, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u68	This is largely on the subject, Mr President, because it shows how some colleagues work in this Parliament, and thus cannot work. I would like to draw attention to it, and yesterday I said it at all is not about the destruction of buildings, the removal of some symbols and so on, which are in praise of this criminal regime, which, once again, I stress, has been declared by the Criminal Act since 2000. We have not changed anything in this part of the Law. It has been operating for 16 years. You set an example with the Party House, in whose construction, by the way, my grandfather was involved, as well as many other Bulgarian citizens were involved in the so-called "brigadierski" or what were other movements for the work and work of Kurtovski, in order to build a variety of buildings for use by the then rulers, Politburo and so on. But on this building, which is currently a National Assembly, its facade to continue standing remnants of the stone crest of the Soviet Union is, this is obviously not where it belongs. That thing shouldn't be there. There should be the Bulgarian national crest, as it stands here above our heads. But the current Bulgarian national crest, not the crest of the Soviet Union, and it, notice, with a broken pentagram, which was broken at the beginning of the protests " 1989," 1990. This is the big difference and this is not about any symbols that were on the ceiling in the Budget Commission and some such absolute nonsense. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Nobody's gonna do anything like that. It's about specific artifacts praising a criminal regime that explicitly praise it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u69	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Second line, Mr. Jablyanov, would you like? Second line? Mr. Ilian Todorov from the parliamentary group of the party Ataka. To Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u70	I want to make a line, Mr. Dimitrov. With the Bill you are proposing, you may have to fine the whole of Bulgaria. All Bulgaria will have to be fined under this Reformation Block Bill. Anyone who sells for example what they sell in the chair of the National Assembly. As you suggest, with 2000 leva. The National Assembly will have to be fined because they sell symbols with pentagrams. [[Putting on the stands a bottle of Heineken beer.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u71	Mr. Todorov, please take your product...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u72	Anyone who sells symbols with five-pointers is fine and prison!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u73	The Quaestors, if you please, collect the product. [[They're putting the bottle away. Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Todorov, I'm making a note of unregulated product positioning. Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u74	Thank you very much, fellow Member of Ataka. I will remind you: 1993 in Dimitrovgrad in 1994 a group of customs officers have been arguing all day about how to take the five-pointer from the Union home and break it. Young people were skating and said, "Well, heineken has a pentagram, too. What are we supposed to do now to throw the bottles? They took it off, they put it on, they finally broke it down one night, and it's gone. I don't think things have changed there. We're not going to remove symbols, but we're going to break the crest, and he's in the way. Let it be history. And the old crest stands, stands and the older monarch-fascist. I don't mind, let's stay in history. Let our children study it, but in the right way. I don't want to say anything to my colleague. But his father certainly was somewhere nomenclature during communism, because that was the time of the Central Committee of the Party, or the barrister's, or the judiciary. It must have been a nomenclature somewhere, which doesn't make him a bad person! Don't make him a bad man! With this participation somewhere, with this career he managed to study Mr. Slavov, to make him a prominent lawyer [[Laughter]] To bring him here. And right now, the man is wondering how to deny his father's credit for what he's accomplished. That's his right. He's old enough to expose himself, in the sense of exposing his thoughts, let's not get in his way. [[Laughter]] But let's not divide society unnecessaryly! People who don't remember him... I don't know how old he is, but he doesn't remember communism...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u75	Do you want me to tell you how old I am? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u76	Mr. Slavov!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u77	...speaks about communism. And now he's insulted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u78	Mr. Slavov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u79	I'm in the same situation as he was raised by people, my father was a communist and I'm not ashamed of him. If someone is ashamed or feels that it was bad, there is no harm in saying it, there is no harm in pointing it out. I'm not in the way of Mr. Slavov. I hope he won't get in my way. I wish him success in his career, but not in the division of people, but in unification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u80	Aren't you ashamed?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u81	If you don't mind... [[Replications between MPs Petar Slavov and Emil Dimitrov.]] Mr. Slavov! [[Loud noise and lines.]] Please remain calm. Mr. Dimitrov! Colleagues, I have a call for you to please do not go into personal relations that will not contribute in any way to discuss the project's topic normally and civilizedly. Mr. Slavov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I'm not going to go into the pathetic tone of the speaker, because it's humiliating and shameful what he did, and it's absolutely not true. I won't comment on it. I would like to draw attention to the young colleague from Ataka. I do not know what they are drinking and what they are doing there at the moment, but it seems to me, Mr President, that alcohol should not be imported into the Chamber. Please take steps to ensure that if alcohol is imported, it is seized and exported from the hall. That's undignified behavior. [[Loud noise and shouts in "Attacka."]] It is unworthy of the conduct of the National Assembly's stand to come out a young colleague, to place some bottles of alcohol and to explain some unserious things to us. That's my point. Be strict and follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u83	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. I made a comment to the honourable Member of the National Assembly. There is no way I can account for the personal preferences of the Members of the National Assembly. They're old people. [[National Representative Stanislav Stanilov wants the floor.]] I'm recording you, Professor. Stanilov. There's a line we follow. Next up, Mr. Chetin Kazak. [[Strength noise in BSP LB and attack.]] Please calm down! Please ensure that the Quaestors monitor the Members of the National Assembly's good tone. Colleagues, please take your seats, calm down. Everyone will have the right to lay out their thesis from the stand, I hope civilizedly, that you replicate and so that the sitting goes normally. Mr. Chetin Kazak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is a pity that at the coming end of the Forty-third National Assembly we are witnessing such ugly scenes, attacks and personal accusations, threats of physical self-harm that do not contribute to the image, reputation and authority of the Bulgarian Parliament. Unfortunately, such actions, which we are witnessing through the introduction of this Bill, also do not contribute to this Parliament staying in history as a parliament that has done good work. At the end of the past National Assembly, the same or almost the same importers as a political force, deliberately after a whole term of office, when they had previously ruled, did not deal with the case at all with the rebirth process, so the revival process never received the necessary retribution, at the end of the previous term suddenly came to mind and introduced a bill proposing to remove the limitation of crimes of the communist regime, including the so-called revival process.... only with the back thought to oppose the movement for rights and freedoms of the BSP. Now we're witnessing the same scenario again. Colleagues from GERB and their right hand feel that they are losing power immediately find some bill, some act to try to arouse the passions, to remove the Skeletons from the wardrobe and again try to oppose us with each other. Dear colleagues, I call such behaviour hypocritical! Hypocritical, because he has unclean goals. We are sincere in our assessment that the communist regime is criminal, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have always been sincere in that the crimes of the communist regime should be punished, there should have been retribution for the crimes and the so-called "renaissance process" but we do not accept the hypocritical approach that is applied whenever you come down from power to try with similar laws to oppose us with the BSP or with any other political force that does not share these views. You're not gonna make it! We will remain in our principled position despite your hypocrisy, because the Movement for Rights and Freedom will never deviate from its principles. The movement for rights and freedoms has never deviated! And despite the slanders, despite the lies with which some former colleagues of ours are trying to mislead Bulgarian citizens in Bulgaria and in neighboring countries, the DPS is and will continue to be the defender, advocate for the rights and freedoms of the Turks and Muslims in Bulgaria and not only in Bulgaria! It will continue to fight to get retribution for the suffering they suffered during the communist regime, will continue to work for Bulgaria to be a Euro-Atlantic state, to be a state worthy of its membership in NATO and the European Union, which respects fundamental rights and freedoms. We will support this Bill, not because we agree with its provisions, but because we agree that the communist regime must finally enter the history books so that our children know what crimes they have committed. [[Reply of National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] There is one single provision in this bill that we support. Such a provision we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have deposited a year ago in the Forty-third National Assembly as a bill for amending the Law on School and Preschool Education. Unfortunately, this bill is hidden in the drawers of the Education Committee, and none of the importers of the Bill that we are now discussing has bothered to ask because this project did not see the light of day?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u85	Everything needs to be known!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u86	And similar provisions of those we imported a year ago are proposed in this Bill. Naturally, we will support them, but I say again... we do not want you to think that we do not notice the hypocrisy with which you approach this topic. At the end of my speech, I would like to address some colleagues who have done everything in the past month to mislead our compatriots in the Republic of Turkey. There is no greater hypocrisy and insecurities than to go and campaign among our compatriots in the Republic of Turkey to vote for the party's candidate, who banned the agitation in a mother tongue, for the party's candidate, who limited the sections in the Republic of Turkey to 35, for the party's candidate, who joined with the extreme nationalists and ruled with them. And you go and campaign for our countrymen in the Republic of Turkey to vote for this candidate...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u87	What does this have to do with the communist regime?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u88	To me, this is a sign of total unprincipledness! Totally! But our voters, regardless of where they live, are wise and sooner or later they will understand the lie! Even then, when they have been deceived, they will see the truth and will remember again who it was, who it is and who will continue to be their truly unbought representative in the Bulgarian Parliament!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u89	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kazak, I have listened carefully to your speech and in it I have seen extremely many contradictions. You started by saying that the going political party was importing laws that divide society, and this is the second time we have imported it. Then, in your speech, you mentioned that you had such a bill submitted a year ago. Then you said, I listened very carefully to you that such a bill was aged. Where's the truth? You're manipulating the MPs right now! Secondly, I want to ask you something. In your speech, you mentioned that you condemn the communist regime. After you condemn the communist regime, you hug BSP several times and rule together. How does your conscience allow this? Your parents had changed names, and you kids hug each other with those who changed names?! Listening carefully to you, I see a lot of pragmatism in your political actions. This pragmatism always appears when it smells a little bit of power in the DPS. Moreover, in today's day, you intervened the bill we are looking at with the recent past elections, which has nothing to do with it. In today's day, when you have to take up and say a clear position, as you have just mentioned, that our children need to know about the outrage that has been committed during the communist regime, you timidly smear things and say: "Yes, we will be with those who support us in order to be in power. That was the conclusion of your speech. Will your political party support this bill, or will it not support it? [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u91	Thank you. Second line: Valeri Simeonov. And please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u92	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman and honourable Members, it won't be quite on the subject, but it will be on the speech. I recommend to Mr. Kazak not to use the stands of the National Assembly to suggest simple and already unconspirated misconceptions that you of the DPS and DST are something different. You're both sides of the same pound. [[Laughter in DPS.]] It's you! Do not suggest that your countrymen in Turkey have been misled to vote for the other candidate, not for your unsuccessful candidate. Not at all! I'm telling you first person. The presence of our people in Turkey has shown one thing that those voting people did not know what they were voting for. They couldn't even read the names of the parties or the presidential candidates. There is a vote under command, with a perfect organization of Bulgarian exodus organizations, a perfect organization of the Turkish state and a close of eyes, unfortunately, of our institutions in the face of the Foreign Ministry and the Central Election Commission. The truth, honourable Members, was as follows by noon they were asked to vote for one, and after lunch they were asked to vote for the other in the same section. Those are the facts! So don't fool us!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u93	Thanks for the line. Third line, Mr. Bayraktarov. I remind you, let's stick to the subject of the Bill. Relationships are pretty complicated. I'm trying to follow them, but I'm calling you on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hope you're as principled as you are in other words, because Mr. Kazak is not talking about it at all. But whatever. In fact, I'm going to add to the conversation of my colleague Valeri Simeonov. DOT and DPS are both sides of the devalviral pound, completely devalued.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u95	To be honest, I'm having a hard time making this relationship between lyre and communism. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u96	But since you, Mr. Kazak, have very often used the term "Impersonality," I would like to point out to you that hypocrisy is when 27 years of hugging with Agent Paul and Agent Sava, when 27 years of the agents, and it is not known to which other agents have been responsible for the idea of the revival process, are today honoring you and what other chairmen. If that's not hypocrisy, what else is hypocrisy?! I wonder if you're telling this to your supposed voters? I was only two weeks ago in Istanbul, and I saw the people there choose. Agent Saban was standing in the section of Baajali, until 12:00 he told people to vote with a number of people, and after 12:00 the same agent Saban told them what other number to vote for.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u97	And in what language did you say that?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u98	These are both sides of this coin. So these things you can tell someone else! Don't just go out there and pretend to be saints and all kinds of things.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u99	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov, we understand your point. It's a hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! After these two speeches, I can see why Gen. Radev received so many votes in the Republic of Turkey after the two colleagues were there. Apparently they voted there during the election. I'll answer in order. First of all, Mr. Lachezar Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov, you are perhaps the oldest MP in the parliament from GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u101	Maybe the most experienced.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u102	Yeah, the most experienced. You've seen the behavior of the DPS all these years. You know the DPS. It has never made compromises, whether it has managed or not, with the topics affecting the crimes of the communist regime, the sufferings of the Turkish and Muslim community in Bulgaria, suffered during the revival process. When we have had the opportunity, we have always put them in place, we have always exercised a legislative initiative. We have always insisted, unfortunately, whether the DPS has participated in the management or not, whether it manages BSP, GERB, SDS, in these topics DPS has always been lonely. That's what I call hypocrisy! Hypocrisy has no colour when it comes to these topics. It was no coincidence to this day that the crimes of the revival process remained unpunished, covered by statute of limitations. And the Constitutional Court refused and declared the unconstitutional text that we all voted on for the non-prevention of the crimes of the revival process. That's it! These questions, unfortunately, do not have color! We with pain see and find this fact. And for the other lines, they're so frivolous! You speak first person, Mr. Simeonov, because I recently told you that society has witnessed several years of playing the theatro of divided nationalists: on one side is Ataka, and on the other side the Patriotic Front. Kum and Kumetz argued and stood fighting for several years, but now suddenly the two sides of Bulgarian nationalism came together again and you are together again. [[Relations in PF.]] Happy family of nationalists in Bulgaria! I wish you new successes! However, do not underestimate the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u103	Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will begin by saying that the submitted bill, which replaces the agenda of society with fictional problems, proves that this National Assembly is not only useless but is already harmful. The faster it relaxes, the better for the Bulgarian people! But it's just an introduction. The other thing I want to tell you is: colleagues, there is no way with a Law that divides people, you are telling me that it leads to unity, and you are asking that this unity be achieved! I just want to remind you that, if this is not clear to you, from 1923 to the mid-40s, Bulgaria was actually in a state of civil war. When there is a civil war, there can be no winners and defeats when there is a civil war there is suffering and this suffering in history must serve us to unite and teach from it for the future, not to dig through the bones of the dead. For you, because in 27 years you couldn't create anything to darken the past, because in 27 years you couldn't shake off your relatives and your own personal past, you now began to fight the symbols, monuments and the dead. Because what you wish to do to bones, to monuments of dead people for the freedom of Bulgaria, to the monuments of those who died and gave Bulgaria the opportunity not to experience a third national catastrophe in 1944, to write a communist regime, perhaps you should have written in brackets about which you fought for, for which you died, is criminal. There is no way you can achieve the unification of a society when against a memory that you have brought out from 1945, 1946, 1947, 1948, 1952, the memories of 1923, and there is no way you who destroyed Bulgaria to try to tell us that Bulgaria had lived worse until 1989 than now. Explain it to those people in the Rhodope villages, explain it to the people of Deliormana, explain it to those who collect trash on the buckets! Then we'll see if you get the confession. I want to ask you: what are we going to do with the films of the Homeland..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I understand you. I understand very well. Perhaps if I were you, if I were such a traitor to my own ideas and to my own country, I wouldn't be able to look at these monuments in peace from where the mute eyes of the dead look at me. I'm looking at the eyes of Hope, of Ivan, of Dimitrinka, of Tsenka and the empty carriage of Staying from the Hawk. What are you going to do about it? You will put on the National House of Children in Hawk, erected in their memory, inscription on the door as per a concentration camp: This regime has been declared criminal? Colleagues, since you couldn't handle yourself and the economy of the state, you want to kill these people for the second time. You want to erase them from the history of Bulgaria, to put them in the concentration camp of the so-called "Museum of Socialist Arts" and perhaps on the door you will write: They were criminals. You won't be able to kill that thing twice. I will finish my speech with only one verse of the great poet Veselin Hanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u105	Mr. Ermenkov, I'm asking you to focus on completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u106	♪ Lie, we'll live, we'll live, The age will be our flesh. We fought so hard for her, that we have conquered death itself. [[Noise and disapproving lines on the right, applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u107	Thank you. Is there anyone who wants a line? I won't. To speak, I give the floor to the MP Mr. Metodi Andreev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Yesterday I thought that we achieved or listened to one of the most serious odes of hypocrisy and demagogy, but just yesterday's ode was surpassed because a man who, when he was abroad, performed the secret missions he was assigned to him back then by the Military Intelligence Service, when his resident wrote about him that he had an improper attitude towards socialist property because he spent the people's money very easily, is now telling me that that this formation was better. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] It was better for him because Captain Radulov, as he said in West Berlin, lived quite well. He can't complain about that time, and that's why he's crying about it. Otherwise, it is very interesting for Ronimex, for his company, Ronimex, after the changes it is very interesting to tell its story.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u109	Mr. Andreev, please, on the bill, please. And you're an importer. Let's get to the point on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u110	Dear colleagues, this Law, as one of my fellow Members has said, has inflamed the left side of the House. This means only one thing.. that this topic is extremely important to be resolved as it has not been resolved during these 27 years. If we must apologize, we all who claim to be right-wing parties, centre-rights and Democrats, all of us should apologize to our constituents that, when we ruled this country, we ruled it so that this outbreak of communism continued to exist that this germ 27 years after the changes took place in this Parliament. Because communism in Bulgaria is a mystification. It's a demagogy, it's a topic that's full of untruths and suggestion. This Law has one single objective.. it aims to existentially solve the issue of demagogy, called communism, Bulgarian communism. Here I will paraphrase Madeleine de Puise, a famous French feminist and writer who says the following thing: this applies to you, the heirs of the bloody Communist Party [[turns to the left side of the room]] : The darkness of your hypocrisy is a refuge for your crimes. Your party is becoming more and more like a Sicilian clan, whether it is BSP, whether it is ABB, whether it is attacking or something like that. Your family ties You put before the interest of the state, the interest of European Bulgaria, of NATO Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u111	Please be quiet in the hall. Please, colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria, take your seat because indeed your speakers have asked for order in the Chamber. Go on, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u112	When we talk about suggestion, here were made yesterday, and today, some suggestions that have nothing to do with the truth. It was suggested that, you see, this Law divides the nation. It was claimed that, you see, during communism, a true spiritual society was created, people lived in a spiritual cosiness, were satisfied with their lives, but there was no freedom, there was no freedom to say what they thought. Their own grandfathers and fathers cursed the then dictator Todor Zhivkov, but they dared not say it out loud. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Let's start a little further from the story when the division in Bulgaria begins, who starts it and why it begins it? Because communist ideology generally, as theory and practice, relies solely on division. Remember who taught us that societies were class-partys, that there was class-party antagonism? Who introduced the term "the dictatorship of the proletariat"? Who divided societies into the world order of capitalists and communist savers of nations? April 16, 1925. ...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u113	Who, who, who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u114	...who blew up the church of St. Sunday and buried under its ruins more than 200 Bulgarian officers involved in the wars, intellectuals, many children and innocent women? Who then threw the state into a civil war? Who started this civil war? Even then, at the beginning of this civil war, started in 1923, lies behind their interest as a foreign, geopolitical interest. In this sense, Bulgarian communists are professional national traitors because for their betrayal they have always received money. In recent times they receive public procurements such as "Belene", "South Stream" and so on, but they have always been well paid by their demeurs, located far below the Kremlin stars. The next very important feature of this non-Bulgarian party I address especially to my friends the Patriots: honourable gentlemen Patriots, these people killed Bulgarian patriotism, replacing it with false internationalism. These people... [[Noise and lines, knocking banks on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u115	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u116	...with their politics, non-Bulgarian politics. Remember very well the attitude of non-Bulgarian communists to the main national... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u117	Colleagues, I beg you to be quiet in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u118	...between the two world wars. The national unification of the Bulgarians in Macedonia, Western Thrace and South Dobrudja has always served the interests of the Soviet state, Soviet politics and the acts of the terrorist organization, calling itself Comintern. Therefore, non-Bulgarian communists are starting to confess the ideas for creating new nations in Macedonia, and even that the part of Macedonia in Bulgaria, notice, has been conquered and subdued. It's their theory, not theirs at the Comintern. In 1926 at its Vienna Congress of the Central Committee of the BCP, the then non-Bulgarian BCP reached the absurdity of demanding self-determination of the population of Macedonia, Thrace and Dobrudja, including forming independent states. It's a fact, gentlemen Patriotti! It's a fact! It is only because of this fact that we have to decide that more of these Masonic symbols, which are theirs, cannot stand in public places in a normal, civilized state. Let us see the attitude of the non-Bulgarian Communist Party to the Trilateral Pact and the National Socialism of Hitler. These are all moments of their glorious, as they express themselves, history, glorious, but in quotes. Remember their conjunctural attitude towards Soviet Russia and Hitler. It always depends on Russia's attitude towards Hitler. For example, by June 22, 1941, when the Plan began, when Hitlerist Germany attacked Stalinova Russia, the attitude of non-Bulgarian communists to the Trilateral Pact was to praise the friendship between Hitler and Stalin. In his memories, one of the most influential communist activists of the time, Varban Angelov said: "The internal leadership of the non-Bulgarian Bulgarian Communist Communist Party is my addition to the propaganda for Bulgaria's entry into the Trilateral Pact. At the end of 1940 and at the beginning of 1941 at the order of the CCP of the non-Bulgarian Communist Party, there were complaints that urged the Bulgarian government to sign the Trilateral Pact. When German troops invaded our home, the party issued an order to welcome them not as hostile but as friendly troops. Here, ladies and gentlemen, their attitude towards fascism and Nazism. It was conjunctural and depended only on the policy of the chiefs under the Kremlin stars. Some historical facts that have a very important attitude to our present reality. On September 1, 1939, fascist Germany attacked Poland. On September 17, the same year Stalin took his part of Poland by violating the Treaty with Poland for non-attack of 1932. Then the Bulgarian communists praised the Pact of Molotov and said: "These are our friends. The same is their situation now that Putin violated the Budapest Memorandum of 1994 and annexed Crimea against the signatures he himself put, America, England and the President of Ukraine. See, their attitude over the decades hasn't changed. It is the same, it is subordinate only to the geopolitical interest of Russia.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u119	Mr. Chairman, is that on the subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u120	It's a national betrayal that lasted decades, and these people convince us that, you see, these symbols were symbols of some statehood. The official launch of guerrilla resistance is considered the day Soviet Russia was attacked by Hitler. But here, too, the story is full of ideologists, mythologists, fictions and untruths. First of all, is it right to call them noisy guerrillas? The people called them Sumerians for two reasons. First because they were afraid of the noise and, secondly, because they were hiding under the noise. That's where they made their own Grounders. And I ask the following: the classic definition of a guerrilla is that it is a person involved in an irregular military formation that conducts military action against foreign forces controlling or occupying an area. I ask: what are the foreign forces that occupied Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u121	Mr. Andreev, after this definition, I would still like to remind you that we are debating the Law on the declaration of the Communist regime in Bulgaria as a criminal. [[Noise and disapproving lines from GERB.]] Please, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u122	Mr. Haytov, yesterday there were suggestions that must be broken. It must be made clear that what we want is necessary for all free Bulgarians, so please do not interrupt me very much. I've built my own speech, and I intend to do it my way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u123	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u124	In this sense, guerrillas may have been in Greece, maybe there were in Yugoslavia, there were in France, there were in Belgium, there were guerrillas in the occupied part of the former Soviet Union. There were noisy people in Bulgaria. These were terrorists who worked and fought an armed war against their own government. And the money came from where? From the Kremlin Stars. These were paid terrorists who harassed the Bulgarian people. That's a fact, and no one can deny it. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Give me some water, give me some water! [[Laughter and glad tidings.]] The second mythologiem is that the non-Bulgarian guerrilla movement was a form of anti-fascist resistance. However, this is incorrect and false, as there was no fascist or nationalist dictatorship in the Kingdom of Bulgaria. Unlike Romania, different regimes of military, monarchic are changing in our country, but we do not have a radical form of dictatorship such as Stalin and Hitler. However, we have a non-Bulgarian Communist Party that supports the Trilateral Pact until 22 June 1941 and openly promotes Comintern and Pro-Soviet policy, including terrorist acts after 22 June 1941 on the territory of Bulgaria. The mythology of the so-called anti-fascist resistance is complemented by pure fictions of cynicalism. Do you remember the action they've been going to on their Toadhouses? The truth is very simple? the then abbot of the Rila Monastery Calistrat gives testimony in time and says that there were 18 wounded German soldiers and an officer and their satraps, called Sumerians, killed these innocent and defenseless soldiers because they were there to heal. This is their biggest action, the tip of their noisy movement. And we want this thing to respect it now, we want to exist and live in this mythology. This is ridiculous! Let's go back over the years now to the people's power. Remember this particular Tsola Dragoycheva, whose name is named after the square in White Slatina. I want to ask Beloslatinchani do they know that Mrs. Tsola Dragoycheva or Comrade Tsola Dragoycheva, God forgive her, if she can forgive anyone, she was involved in the preparation of the trials and killings of Traycho Kostov and Nikola Petkov? Do they know that she was one of the ideologists of this in 1963 that Bulgaria should be proposed to become 16 republic by then the rightful sly Todor Zhivkov? By the way, this thing is done the second time in 1973. Dear colleagues, let us also remember the other mythologiem that was developing yesterday that, you see, during socialism was very nice. During socialism, there are three bankruptcies. The first bankruptcy was in the late 1950s. Then the Bulgarian state falls into severe financial condition. The country's reserves are only 134 million. the dollar at the end of March 1960. Then the gold reserve of 24 tonnes was transferred to storage at the State Bank in Moscow. In 1958, it was set against granting new loans and delaying old-time payments. Khrushchev only accepts that the second proposal is not to pay old loans. This is how the Bulgarian state reserve was stolen with the clear consent of the then first state of Todor Zhivkov. The second bankruptcy in 1977 was due to the huge funds thrown into heavy machinery and the rise in international oil prices. The third bankruptcy was 1987 when the debt of the People's Republic of Bulgaria to Western banks exceeded 100% of the country's total foreign exchange revenues. Thus, the country's debt in 1989 became 11 billion. $26 billion. lv. The second one doesn't say that. During this whole period of sovereignty, as they say, the party was constantly dividing the people. By the way, their social policy, let us remind you, let us know those people who have not read it that after 1951 all pension funds have been nationalized. They went to the state budget, so the wealth of Bulgarian pensioners was eradicated, the Bulgarian communists and Bulgarian fighters against fascism ate it. Theirs, not the Bulgarians. [[Reply by National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] On January 14, 1948, see what law these people were pronouncing: Law on the deprivation of the right to pension of persons who had a fascist activity. The pensions of the missing more than 20,000 people have been suspended since the 9th September events. Convicted by the People's Court, the so-called People's Court. What would happen now if someone like me were to propose now, in connection with what the Patriot front offers to raise pensions, to offer to stop or have their pensions on the minimum pension of all their party paid activists and all the former State Security officers. What would happen? Can we do this thing? They did it. They did it! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u125	That means you're voting against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u126	Please do not call from the place and do not interrupt the speaker. Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u127	What was suggested yesterday that you see, during communism, we have experienced some sort of spiritual renaissance... Let me just start with the story of the novel On the turn of Dimitar Talev, a great Bulgarian writer. Because of three sentences in this novel, published in 1940, he was put into the Communist camps. Look at the sentences, look how insightful they were, how clever a man Dimitar Talev was. He says: "You know, Milke, the last rightful communist will die in Bulgaria and then, when there will be no rightful communists anywhere in the world, not even in Bolshevik Russia, here, in our country, there will still be someone. Ah, what kind of people are we, Milke? What kind of people are we?Because of these three sentences, Dimitar Talev goes to the death camps. Then the communist Rayko Alexiev, the editor-in-chief of Sturetz, killed by the communists, the non-Bulgarian communists. Word is Bokova's father was the one who committed the physical murder. For fascist activity as early as 23 November 1944 from the Union of Bulgarian Writers, hear who were expelled because they were fascists: Dimitar Talev, Kiril Krastev, Georgi Konstantinov, Yordan Stubel, Slavcho Krasenski, Nikolay Donchev, Petar Goryanski, Bogdan Filov, Yordan Badev, Boris Yotsev, Fanny Popova-Mutafova, unique Bulgarian writer, Chavdar Mutafov, Dimitar Shishmanov, Mikhail Arnaudov, Nikola Balabanov, Pavel Spasov and dozens of others. It is said that Bulgarian cinema was in Renaissance. Now I'll read you how much renaissance it was. It was in renaissance only if it correctly reflected the positive socialist hero. The Forbidden Films of Communism: Life runs quietly by Binka Zhelyazkova, a unique director, banned after a decision by the Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party July 1958; On the small island of Rangel Valchanov, according to the scenario of Valeri Petrov, announced after 30 years for the best feature film in the history of our cinema, also banned; After the ban on this film, Radoy Ralyn will write the following prophetic quad, to hear it very well: "This film will now stop not for mistakes, we stop it, we will release it in time, freedom to demonstrate. Binka Zhelyazkova's third film The unjoyful part of the films is held by Lada Boyadjieva and Janusz Vazov; the sky over Veleka. " 1968 by Edward Zahariev; the Prosecutor of Lyubomir Sharlandzhiev; the poems of Margarit Nikolov; the short sun is banned by Ludmil Kirkov; in 1980 the Selceto series of Ivan Georgiev was banned; a woman of 33 "Hristo Hristov" and Margarit and Margarita " 1988" by Nikolay Volev and many other films and documentaries. This is their spiritual upliftment that they are talking about. Finally, honourable Members, I believe that what we want is nothing more than that we want to implement the resolutions adopted in the Council of Europe a long time ago, namely the European Parliament resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism of 30 March 2009. Many of you were present on 19 November 2009 when this resolution was ratified in our Parliament as well. The main point of this resolution is that it puts equality between the two humanist builders of the communist and national socialist. This is the truth contained in this resolution. When we talk about history, it is shameful for us that 27 years after we have adopted the path of democracy to the European Union, we continue to ask ourselves who we are and cannot give an answer to our voters. As it is very important to know that we are not the only MPs to propose such amendments, I just want to tell you that this year in Romania on 27 July 2015. [[BSP LB]] Law has been voted, which prohibits Ceausescu from being praised as a great people's leader, to the cult of Ceausescu, bans the cult of Ceausescu, bans legionnaire symbols, because there was a fascist regime in Romania of Ion Antonescu. This was voted on 27 July 2015 in our neighbouring country Romania and then we wonder why Romania has blown us all the way to Europe. Since 2003, there has been lustration in Romania. Just a week ago, the International Court of Human Rights said that this lustration does not violate human rights in Romania. Isn't it a shame that in 2016, the Constitutional Court decided to judge, not on moral grounds, but on a wrong law, because, as you said here, Mr. Mestan, there can be no justice without morals. When justice is not moral, it must be changed because the head of the Constitutional Court cannot be the grandson of a member of the Central Committee of the Politburo of the BCP. It cannot be that half of the constitutional judges graduated from the School of Simeonovo and were former communists and voted on this Law. The chief prosecutor, who was a member of the party in the barracks, cannot propose that this thing be rejected. This is the strange country we live in. This Law has only one wish: to clear the story from the inventions of communism, to create a feeling that something happened in Bulgaria in these 27 years. As for the tossings that were made here, what we're going to do with the pentagram, see, the pentagram is an ancient symbol, it has nothing to do with the communists. They stole everything else. I can tell you that this thing, in the words of witnesses, is also covered in mysticism. Did you know that at the time, at the beginning, when the new communist state was established in the former Soviet Union, then there was the dispute about what our symbol would be, a five-way or a swastika. For a long time, Soviet soldiers had the same symbols on their hands. Do you know who invented it to be the pentagram? He stole it from the memory of humanity, Lev Trotsky, who is a famous mason. He spoke mystical all the time. The spell of the red demons of evolution requires that the star be introduced into the new emblem of the new state. Other leaders of the new communist state of Bucharin and Sverdlov had similar tortures at the time. The five-pointer is connected to Pythagoras, it's connected to Leonardo da Vinci. She's got a whole other mind, but they stole it. This is a Masonic symbol that they imposed on many peoples, imposed on Christian peoples, like us, like Russia and so on. [[Noise and lines.]] This symbol is deep and anti-Christian and it's not normal when one person... there are deceased people in my hometown of Perushtitsa there are some boys killed before 9 September, there are 28 other people who were killed after 9 September. It's not normal. We've kept it visible, people laughing, wondering at that mind. There can be no cross above Christians. There is no way over Bulgarians, no matter what they were, to have a Russian crest there is still the Russian crest, he stands, who wants to see it, he has it in many places in Bulgaria. We, if we are a nation, must show by this Law that we have realized our historic place and that we deserve it. I call on all of us to support this Law and not so much democrats and patriots and not so patriots. Between first and second readings, it can be supplemented and amended. Finally, I want to make an application so it doesn't look like it's an election. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB: "So far what is he doing?"]] Many people have some reason to talk about it. I will personally take it as an election if in this Parliament this Law does not pass at second reading. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u128	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. First line, Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! According to the historical argument of Mr. Metodi Andreev, I cannot say anything about the role of BCP in the history of Bulgaria after World War I until the 1950s, when indeed this party, put in service of foreign state interests, not of Russia, but of the Soviet Union, is ready even to spill the state of Bulgaria, putting its interests and future at stake in the name of the international ideal. Absolutely right, I might add. The so-called September uprising, when planned in Moscow, Vasil Kolarov timidly states: "Ama, if we make a communist uprising in Bulgaria, Serbia, Greece and Romania will occupy Bulgaria. Then I think it was Zinoviev or any of the other prominent Bulgarian theorists say: "This is exactly the goal, by occupying Bulgaria, will become a new Balkan war, hence the second revolutionary wave in Europe. It's all true. It is true for the guerrillas who are put at the service of a foreign country, because then Bulgaria is a united state and the national ideal is realized, all this is true. I ask myself the question: should we do what the Communists did after 9 September to destroy all the symbols of the king's time, to deny everything in this way? True, the argument is absolutely correct. I, as a historian, can tell you hundreds more facts about this thing. I ask myself, why do we have to divide the nation? Yeah, it's a fact. He's nostalgic. He's nostalgic in communism. Why? Gypsy domestic crime destroyed the Bulgarian settlements. People live miserable, young people run away, health services fail, education is low. Look at the Bulgarian film productions in the last 20 years for goons, mugs and prostitutes only. People get homesick. The guilt is not that people are homesick for a past time that we don't like, and the guilt is in our politics after the last 25 years, when we have allowed instead of building a more modern, more prosperous and prosperous society, to leave people with nostalgia. I'm torn. He's right, Mr. Metodi Andreyev, the fact is absolutely true. I will address only one sentence to my colleagues from the DPS and the other party who appeared. At the time, there was one phrase: It is best in communism to be an artist, athlete and Turkish-communist. Fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u130	Come on. It's not a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u131	Second line? I won't. Mr. Andreev, you have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u132	Mr. Karakachanov, always something that didn't happen in time can happen a little later. We cannot live in a society that does not tell the truth about its children. We can't live in a society that lies to its children. See in the advanced nations of the Czech Republic, see in Poland, see in Germany these people and these countries are prosperous because there they have a sense of responsibility for the present and a good assessment of the past, a true assessment of the past. Specifically on your grief. Mr. Karakachanov, you and I are co-conspirators because in 2000 we signed the Law declaring the communist regime criminal. I was seventh on the list, you were eight. Please don't be upset. You are primarily a patriotic organization, and always internationalism is the greatest enemy of patriotism. Today is the time to really see whether there are patriots in Bulgaria or there are internationalists. I call on you to support this bill. Between first and second reading each of you can, of course, improve the text. We're not saying that this text is the best.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u133	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. For a statement, I give the floor to Professor. Stanislav Stanilov the Parliamentary Group of Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u134	Then to cook Mr. Atanasov, then Mr. Bayraktarov. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I suggest that we put an end to the debate with the following motives: the first motive is the one that I spoke at the time when you discussed the Communism Declaration Act for a criminal regime, and I told you that you were just pulling out a dead dog's knife. Communism is gone, the page is closed, the assessments in history are given by other people and otherwise. We can only emotionally give speeches from the stands, whom communism liked, whom not, whether he was just or not fair. The assessments in history require distance, distance and time when a French journalist asked Chinese leader Dunn Xiaopin what he would say about the Great French Revolution, he said to him: it is early, it takes at least 100 years to pass and we will appreciate it properly. All these facts that my colleague Metodi Andreev listed here were very interesting, not because they are unknown, they are very well known, but against them are many other facts that do not disprove them, but contradict them as an approach to history. History is appreciated only in academic circles and this is all that remains of the writing. Communism cannot be appreciated now. Now all we can do is emotionally bounce against him and split it into one and the other. The adoption of this Law will not end communism, which, by the way, is only alive in the heads of those who offer it. Communism is gone. He's dead, you're voting a law against a dead man, and that's not very nice. Thank you for your attention. I remain with your proposal, Mr. Chairman, to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u136	I take it only as a wish, as there are others enrolled, and at first reading there is no way to end the debate. - What's the line? There aren't any. Mr. Atanasov of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I will support this Bill at first reading, although I have notes on the text, but this is work between first and second reading. I would like to start with something very important and please note this fact. The most important value in democracy is human life, and I personally would always support any position concerning the deliberate forced deprivation of life of anyone. I have nothing against having close people, relatives, or people close by ideology erect a monument to a man who has been deliberately and violently deprived of life. I don't mind that. Once again, the most important value in democracy is human life. But this is about other things. Let's not pervert the debate. Today, everyone who had a theme here put it to the bank. One was dealing with the revival process, and the others went somewhere else in history. We have a concrete proposal to amend a law in force. When there is talk about the division of Bulgarian society, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen on the left: who in the last century has divided the Bulgarian society most? Who divided the Bulgarian society into a class-party principle? Should I state all those facts and circumstances of the 45-year government of the Bulgarian Communist Party, which support the thesis that it was during this period of Bulgarian history and Bulgarian society that was divided, and for repressive purposes? Methods Andreev outlined a part of these circumstances and I do not want to repeat them. Be humble, acknowledge these mistakes, and this will be appreciated, including by your constituents. Do this because not only admission to universities and schools and all other things, but the people with the red books had an advantage in that society. Isn't that right? Mr. Stoilov, the Law on the property of citizens only acted in relation to one part of the Bulgarian society. A hundred and twenty square feet of housing was acceptable. Yeah, but it wasn't like that for the nomenclature. Do you want me to give you a table of examples?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u138	Well, give it to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u139	Yes, they were built in the center of Sofia residential buildings with 300 squared apartments in violation of the Law on the property of citizens. Did anyone take responsibility for this? Who were those people who were getting this? And so on and so forth. Let us not list all these details, but the division of Bulgarian society was the strongest during communism. That's the truth after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u140	Oh, yeah? That's not true anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u141	By the way, because this is where the social element was also concerned, the pensions, yes, today the Bulgarian state is the poorest in the European Union, the low social payments, social security contributions, but let's see all these public workers, as you called them, in the district, district, municipal and I do not know what committees of the party, the employees in the State Security and the repressive apparatus of the communist regime what pensions it is receiving today? Check it out and match it with the lowest threshold. [[Private applause from GERB.]] That's what's dishonest. Here were mentioned facts about how after 9 September people were deprived of the rights they received because of their work. And something else I want to say in the end, because, again, I say, and I am opposed to destroying monuments in settlements of people who have been deprived of life brutally, who have been shot for having some ideology behind which they stood for. I'm against it. However, let's see which are the most monuments located throughout the country - for example of your ideologist Dimitar Blagoev - there is a town in Bulgaria that bears his name. I'm going to remind you of a speech he gave here in this hall in 1919, and you're proud of this man?! As a MP from the Gornojumai region, from this tribune, he states: "I am not a Bulgarian, I am a Macedonian Slav, and I insist that the Bulgarian state recognizes this minority! " This man is practically an ideologist of the comintern theory of the Macedonian nation, which is a bloody wound for the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state. And this man has monuments, in his name is named an entire district city!? Do you realize what this is about? These things are plastered, and they need to be known and we need to have the same attitude towards all those who have allowed themselves to denigrate the Bulgarian interest, regardless of when they lived and what they acted with. Look, I would always go to Geo Milev's monument to plant flowers because he's the victim of white terror. That's true. Hristo Yassenov, I don't want to name all these people. But let's split things up, not put everything in the same hole. And, sorry, you always take advantage of this topic to raise, figuratively speaking, the temperature in your electoral corps. You blame the right-wing or the right-wingers here, those who have submitted the bill, that this bill is looking for any dividends. No, you're the ones who actually take dividends from these debates here because you don't humble yourself. That's why. Because you have admitted some mistakes about this period and governance, others, however, you do not want to admit. And this whole thing is about your inextricable relationship with the Soviet Union regime. It's all about that. Say something about 1925, somewhere there must be a monument to any of those who planted the explosive substance, and the color of the Bulgarian nation, all those statesmen and Bulgarian princes who were killed as a result of this terrorist act, is there somewhere a monument that was placed on them because they were brutally and deliberately deprived of life? Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Next is the speech of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov. There are four more requests after him. I don't want to drop the temperature in the room, but I have to tell you, there are a lot of people on the subject. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief, because there are a few important things to say. History is about learning and not repeating mistakes. When someone takes power, they start writing history. In fact, it is clear today that political trust is extremely low and that is not how we can lift it. However, I would like to reassure the citizens of Velingrad that Velingrad's name will not be changed on the monument of Nikolai Gjaurov will not write a symbol of communism. That's what I'm saying from this tribune, and that needs to be known. Any other controversy is absolutely pointless. I see young people here who look completely like those ardent remsists, no matter what party beauty they're wearing. That's what's scary. The façade of the National Assembly says: "The Unity makes the power." So that's where the disunity begins. Come to your senses, because nothing good is going to do us this way. The general is right, he pointed out many examples of the pensions of the functionaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u144	Are you talking about Atanasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u145	Yes, for General. Atanasov. But that still doesn't solve the problem of the current pensioners. Perhaps he should have said that the entire Reformation bloc supported the proposal for 300 BGN, and now certain individuals say that we were populists. At the same time, on the left, they were silent when it was time to raise pensions. So far, I will stop, because any other historical and non-historical facts and without facts today have no meaning at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? There aren't any. The next speech is Mr. Stanislav Anastasov of the DPS Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would like to say a few words as a young man. My position as depessar is clear, it won't be any different from Mr. Kazak's. There is really one good thing about this Law, and that is: the crimes of totalitarian regimes, we believe that in our bill it is better written, to study at school. Colleagues, as a young man and a liberal, I want to have a debate and I believe deep down that debate is one of the greatest achievements of democracy. I want to lead that debate, colleagues who are thematic, not personalized. I want to debate with Mr. Georgiev from the Democratic Party GERB also a young man. I want to debate with Mr. Popov from the Democratic Party BSP on these issues. But I don't want to have a debate with their fathers and grandfathers because, as young people, I believe that each of us has eyes and ears to see things for himself and to judge for himself. [[Replications between the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov and the MPs from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u148	Please be quiet in the hall! I'm sorry. Mr. Bayraktarov, please, the speaker is hard to hear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u149	As for the particular bill, colleagues, it is hard to imagine how in a democratic society debate and ban can go together. I can't imagine how bans will help us better look at history. I have no claim, and in my opinion, no young person can claim to be the bearer of historical memory. We, as policy makers, are interested in totalitarian regimes, but not labelling. Not by the labelling of the regimes, but by the technology of the totalitarian regime. That's what I'm most interested in, colleagues. Not whether in this one, the previous one or any one, it doesn't matter what the sign is, it's what happened, it's exactly what happened. Because, colleagues, even today, even in the edition of this Parliament, the same elements of these totalitarian regimes creep in. It is these elements that we want to know as young people so that we do not allow them to happen again. Again, no etiquette, no prejudice. Young people are tired of opposition and banning in this society. On the contrary, we want to talk, we want to be free and see the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u150	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Volen Siderov the parliamentary group of the Party Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to speak briefly, as we have to leave for a meeting with Mr. President in a moment. Apropo, speaking of communism and anticommunism, I remember that he was an active Komsomol from a communist family, now an anti-communist. That's life. Now I would like to say a few words to you as a man who was involved in anti-communist movements. Here, I looked at the importers, and I don't remember any of them being a member of a dissident association. Not one! I'm sorry! I was the founder of Sofia's organization before Todor Zhivkov fell. I participated in the Human Rights Society before this period. Then it was risky, then you bet on some things, including health, because you could get arrested, you could disappear. I say this because I would agree with people who have really fought against communism and are now going out somehow to crown their struggle with such a law. But these aren't these people, so I don't trust them. I don't believe in the controversy of these people, who here are passionately speaking against the communist regime, which was a criminal and not talking about the capitalist regime, which is also a criminal, half my life passed in communism, the other half runs in capitalism. By the way, I want to tell you, as a paradox, perhaps that we have introduced into the Law of Law, which declares neoliberalism a criminal regime. Neoliberalism is criminal because it brought the Bulgarians to genocide. It is not true that there was not such a division as in communism a moment ago one of the speakers said. No, now division is what people in communism never thought they could have. So let's be reasonable. I cannot understand why right now representatives in the face of its most extreme part are helping the representatives of the left by hardening their vote. Currently, BSP and their sympathizers are rising up and will receive a bigger vote than they would have without this Law and without this controversy today. I don't know what you're in, but you guys are playing together. In the same way as GERB and BSP are currently playing some kind of game together to introduce a electoral system with which to conveniently clean up other parties. It's not good, it's not good, because they always turn on you like that. I'm telling you this as a pathetic man. What do I suggest? If this Law is passed, then the Law declaring neoliberalism or capitalism in today's form as we know it is criminal because many people died in it. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u152	Don't tell me, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u153	Bulgarians ran out on economic pressure, died without drugs old people and so on... not to repeat things that are known. Then there'll be a balance. The most important thing is to have balance, to have balance in a system of political, social, natural, as well as to look. Since this is obviously not possible and will not happen, I propose that we work together with the importers of this Law and with its opponents to work out the Law for reconciliation of the Bulgarian nation, in which it can clearly be said that what it was was was. If we don't learn from it, we're fools if we're wiser and move forward. Because tomorrow there may not be a Bulgarian nation and then the ban on communist symbols will simply be a joke, a mockery, if Bulgaria disappears or if the dreams of our neighbouring leaders are fulfilled, their heartfelt urges to take part in Bulgaria. So let's think about the current problems, think about what's in front of us now. Let's leave the controversy on communism and anticommunism, because they can't improve things in the nation. To now declare part of your life a criminal, it is as if I can think of a fellow student of mine in junior high, Stoycho, who was tearing up the page with the couples from the notebook and thinking that this was how he became an excellent student. It's like tearing up a page of history, half of history, from 1944 to 1989, and saying there was no such story. There was, ladies and gentlemen, and it was with the support of many people.. not only Todor Zhivkov. Todor Zhivkov was supported by many Bulgarians. I must tell you that 1989 found us with over one million members of the Bulgarian Communist Party, right?! As I'm now told, two and a half million voted for this referendum, then more than one million were communist members. What should we do? Should we kill them, kill them, or ban them? That was the way it was. People supported socialism or communism for real. Perhaps they were not well informed, as now are not well informed those who voted for the referendum. However, they supported this system. Yes, there were dissatisfied, but I have to tell you that there were very few of them and I joined them in the last years of socialism, because I was a free intellectual, I wanted more freedom. Well, freedom came, but with it came problems that I never thought would come. So let's do the math. Since one of the speakers here said of humility, yes, humility is necessary, but humility by law is not necessary. Humility is a matter of rethinking what we've been doing. My proposal to importers is: download this Law and let's sit down and work for a new law for reconciliation of the Bulgarian nation. If we achieve it, the people will tell us Bravo. If we do not achieve it in the elections will continue these battles, which are not really battles, but are, how can I say, snooping and hooking from the back parts there is a Spanish saying. It is not useful, so withdraw the Law and work on something constructive and useful for the people. Thank you. [[Applause from the Party of Ataka.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u154	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Metodi Andreev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u155	We have no intention of withdrawing the law for at least the following reason: in order to have reconciliation, there must be repentance; in order for there to be repentance, history must be known. Because a people who don't know their history is in danger of repeating it again. This Law has a very serious text, which is exactly what this is about. Since 27 C.E. This talk has been constantly presented to us, never in these 27 years there was a clear will that the truth about totalitarian regimes in the history of Bulgaria should be learned and be part of the program in school. That's why we have this degradation of the young generation right now. As for the hint that those who spoke before the changes were not dissidents before 10 November, I must tell you that in Bulgaria there is only one known at least to me a true dissident, God forgive him. Everything else, at a later time it was shown that it was a fake, a special development to create a feeling that in Bulgaria there are initiatives. There was also one God willing to forgive him, a writer who took Radoy Ralyn, who was also... [[Reply, shouts: "Search, time!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u156	Please graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u157	I wasn't a dissident because I came from a family that was hopeless. But even before November 10th, I haven't been sued for an expensive 1,000 leva camera. And they didn't interrupt my case at the time. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u158	Please finish your speech. Second line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Siderov, just one fragment of your speech. [[Reply: He's gone.]] I'm sorry. It's about having a very big emigration to date. Many enterprising young people have left Bulgaria and this is not good. But why did this happen? I don't want to think long and wide here. I would like to ask you a question: can you imagine before 1989, if Bulgarian citizens could travel freely around the world, how long would they have stayed here? Can you imagine that? I'll remind you of an anecdote. Sorry, we're in plenary, but I think it's up to date.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u160	It's important not to be cynical.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u161	A man, a medium nomenclature, was once sent somewhere on a Western business trip. When he returned, his neighbors asked him: "Ah, what did you see there? " He said: "I didn't have much time, but to tell you, in a hurry when I walked through the streets, all their shops are korecomos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u162	Is that the dream?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u163	Then who could travel, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u164	Mr. Atanasov, please, if you must, go to Mr. Ermenkov, quietly. Third line? I won't. A hole? Physically, there is no way to make Mr. Siderov absent. The next speech is from the MP Milen Mihov. The parliamentary group of the Patriotic Front. After him is recorded Mr. Velizar Enchev. [[Shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I express myself in a personal capacity and express my opinion. We have already discussed this Bill once, and I will be very brief on the political appropriateness of this Bill today. The political benefit of debate brings assets to both the left and the right. His connection to the real situation is obvious. I'll stop here. However, I am obliged to say a few words about the honour of Bulgarian historical science and the level of Bulgarian historical science and the level of Bulgarian history as a person who comes from the academic circles and who has been professionally involved for more than 30 years. I do not accept the thesis that this period is unknown or taboo for Bulgarian scientists. I do not accept the thesis that it is not studied in Bulgarian universities or in Bulgarian schools. Even before 1989 at the major Bulgarian universities in Sofia and Veliko Tarnovo University was taught this discipline and this discipline was not ideological but historical. What colleagues here read and quote is proof of the achievements and knowledge of Bulgarian historical science for this period. I can tell much scarier and much better things about this period than those that were exported. But this has nothing to do with discussing this bill. I would dwell on this brief bill to motivate why I would refrain from supporting it. Because there's a lot of bankruptcy in it. Paragraph 1 of § 1 shows us that all symbols, slogans, photos and inscriptions, signs, etc. must be removed. [[Reply.]] I hadn't thought of that. Thank you. [[Radio.]] As MP from Veliko Tarnovo, I ask myself the question: should we break the windows in Veliko Tarnovo Municipality? Should we break the mosaics in the district management of Veliko Tarnovo? Should we change the facade of Veliko Tarnovo Municipality? The other question: the Museum of Socialism. And isn't the Museum of Socialism an apotheosis of socialism? Isn't the Pravets Museum an apotheosis of this? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Please extend the time if possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u166	You can't. Finish the sentence as your time is extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u167	The last sentence is about the very relevant text.. False recreation of the period from 9 September to 10 November. Who says what is true and what is not true if not Bulgarian historical science!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u168	Thanks for the speech. - What's the line? There aren't any. People's representative Velizar Enchev for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u169	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Mr. Metodi Andreev and the importers of this Law obviously do not know international law. And he who knows international law knows very well that what happened in Bulgaria 9 September 1944 and when discussing the period 1941-1944. The time of anti-fascist resistance, in terms of international law Metodi Andreev is trying to reject the decisions of the conferences in Tehran, Yalta and Potsdam, who decide to sue the war criminals, those who dragged the world into World War II, first of all, the leaders of Hitlerist Germany, Italy of Mussolini and Imperial Japan, and the allies of these three countries, including the Kingdom of Bulgaria, then ruled by the regime of King Boris III. Mr. Metodi Andreev and those who will support his Law must realize that they will try to criminalise the actions of the Bulgarian anti-fascists recognized as co-authoring power at these three conferences. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]] And whoever from you pushes this green button in support of Metodi Andreyev, he declares himself against the anti-hitler coalition, on whose side the Bulgarian anti-fascist resistance is at war. I would like to say from this tribune that anyone who touches the memory of the Bulgarian anti-fascists, the guerrillas, the guerrillas, is actually hitting the memory of all the dead anti-fascists around the world. On this tribune is obviously now shameful to talk about the Bulgarian partisans, but they are the ones who washed the disgrace from the face of Bulgaria with their participation in World War II during the first and second stages of the Homeland War. Would you, fellow Members, agree to criminalize the actions, the struggle of Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov; will you remove the plaque in front of his house and his apartment; will you remove the plaques in memory of Vladimir Zaimov, a Bulgarian hero who worked for Bulgaria?! [[Replices, cheers by GERB.]] It doesn't matter which intelligence he was working for! And Victor Valkov's father is a national hero because he worked for British intelligence, and Britain is an ally against the Hitlerist coalition. General Vladimir Zaimov is a national hero. If you accept this Law, you will criminalise the actions of Leon Tajer, a worthy Bulgarian who is not a member of the Communist Party, but ignites in Ruse rail transport filled with gasoline for the Eastern Front. Is he a traitor? Is he a criminal? A particularly important issue the British Embassy will surely respond to. Mr. Metodi Andreev, who is obviously defending fascisoid ideas, is an honest fascisoid, and I want to tell him he's going to hit Major Frank Thompson's memory. Major Frank Thompson, who died at the hand of the Bulgarian gendarmerie, a criminal organization which, according to the criteria of the Nuremberg Process and by the criteria of the People's Court, must be criminalized and criminalized. Is Major Frank Thompson a criminal, Mr. Metodi Andreev? Stand on this tribune, Andreev, and state that Major Frank Thompson, instructor of British intelligence in the Balkans, is fighting on the side of the anti-hitler coalition on Bulgarian territory, is a war criminal, communist or otherwise according to your criteria. Each of you who supported this bill essentially supports Nazism, Hitlerism, struck during World War II. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u170	We understand you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? Mr. Andreev, you can explain yourself. You don't want to. Any further comments? There aren't any. My fellow Members, I'm closing the debate. [[BSP LB.]] I announce that the exhibition of Mother Bulgaria will be opened at the Club of the People's Representative and will be opened by the artist Danail Ignatov. The exhibition represents 38 paintings of landscapes and genre paintings. Over the years Danail Ignatov has become a lyric of Bulgarian nature. His paintings are in art galleries in Russia, USA, France, Germany. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. I'm calling a break until 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u171	Honourable Members, we are continuing the plenary session. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? [[Noise and lines.]] The debate is over. Let's move on to the vote. Procedure for the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In connection with the forthcoming vote, I would like a name check on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u173	Please give me the list. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - absent Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - here Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - here Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bancheva - here Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - absent Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - absent Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - absent Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - here Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Christian Radev Mitev - absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hassan Hafuzov - here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - absent Chetin Hussein Kazak - here Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Ianko Alexandrov Jankov - here There's a quorum, we can move on. Additionally recorded: Aidoan Ali, Altimir Adamov, Atanas Zafirov, Georgi Kadiev, Valentin Pavlov, Georgi Anastasov, Georgi Kuchukov, Atanas Merdjanov, Georgi Svilenski, Dora Yankova, Grozdan Karadzhov, Ruschen Riza and Hristian Mitev. The Quorum is increasing! I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law declaring the communist regime in Bulgaria criminal. Please vote, honourable Members. Vote 153 MPs: 104 against 46 abstentions 3. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] For a negative vote please, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will start my negative vote with one quote: I believe in the uniform common power of the frontal family of the globe to do good! And in a united communist order of society.. the savior of all peoples for centuries weighed and tormented through brotherly labor, freedom and equality! I confess a united communism, a reformer of the handicaps of society! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I am waiting for the awakening of the nations and the future communist formation of the whole world! Galac, April 20, 1871. Signature: Hristo Botyov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u175	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u176	Dear MPs, in your attempt to emerge from nothingness... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u177	Please order in the court! I'm sorry, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In your attempt to emerge from the political nothingness you have declared enemies alive and dead! You declared Hristo Botev a criminal because of his ideas! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] With the risk of sanctions our parliamentary group, I, as well as millions of Bulgarians will continue to tachim Botev and sincere, not hypocritical, like you, to offer wreaths and flowers to his monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Alexandrov, come in for a negative vote on number two. The word has the popular representative Nikolay Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! I was unable to take the floor during the speeches. Maybe it was more like that. I voted against it for one simple reason. In today's day, I think the debate wasn't really about the point at all. There was more debate on everything else than basically. I do not believe that what we have seen today from this parliamentary tribune, what the media have seen, shows the prestige of this National Assembly in one way or another. I believe, although I have not lived in these times, but my first memories are the consequences of these times, that we must continue to live for the future without criticising and judging the past, because those who are judging now are destined to be condemned in the future, colleagues. I do not think that what we saw as debates was a dignified behavior for Bulgarian politics, at least for the Bulgarian Parliament. I'm sorry, today, in no way did I feel that this National Assembly should continue its life in any way and that this National Assembly should have any rating greater than zero! [[Noise and lines.]] That's it. For this reason, I voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u181	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Is there a third negative vote? I won't. For the procedure please, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to propose a change in the agenda, which is tomorrow. 1 to become t. 7 of this agenda, namely the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Settlement of the Rights of Owners of Multi-annual Housing Savings Deposits. I'll give myself a reason why. If we follow this agenda, this item will not be able to enter this week for first reading, but on 30 November 2016, Wednesday, expires under the current Law the period within which multiannual housing savers can claim their claims for compensation. In this sense, I propose that tomorrow at first reading we examine this bill and, next week, on Wednesday, possibly, consider it at second reading, so that we do not allow such a situation. I repeat that 30 November 2016 is the last period within which those citizens holding residential savings deposits may claim their claims for compensation. If we don't look at this bill, we get into a much more complicated situation. The issue concerns, or concerns, somewhere around 55,000 families who have such interest flows and have not yet declared their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Lilkov. A reverse opinion? "The People's Representative Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Lilkov! I express my disagreement as we have foreseen this. 1 be the Armed Forces Act with extremely serious changes to it, which have a direct bearing on the powers of the armed forces, first of all, on border guards. If we are talking about 55 thousand people in this case, then in the other case we are talking about 6 million. $800,000. Souls. I'm not against the point being considered, but let's be t. 2, if importers do not object, and if necessary, do not enter Parliamentary control until these two points are exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u185	In both cases, it will be the same... whether it will be the first or the second point is the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u186	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u187	Either way, you have a reverse opinion. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Vili Lilkov, as presented to you by the parliamentary platform. They voted 83 MPs: 63, against 7, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. We continue with today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ROAD MOVEMENT LAW. The report on the second vote of the Committee on Transport, Information and Communications will introduce you to the Chairman of the Committee, National Representative Nassimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, I want a procedure for admission to the Hall of Philip Gounev (Deputy Minister of Interior), Boyko Ranovski (Department of the Road Police), Tihomir Todorov (Inspector in the Department of the Road Police) and Krasimir Kalajdzhiev (CEO) of the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u189	We are voting for admission in this House, honourable Members. Vote 79 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Invite, please, the relevant persons. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission considers that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 78, para. 2 of the Council of Ministers on the basis of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic, No 554-01-162, submitted by Krasimir Velchev and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 8 October 2015, and the Law on Supplement to the Law on Road Traffic, No 554-01-161, submitted by the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and Antony Trenchev on 8 October 2015. The Law on Road Traffic is amended and supplemented by the Law on Road Traffic. (Obn., D.V., No. ...) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u191	Statements? I can't see. We vote on the name of the law. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u192	Proposal by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the N.S.P. Ivan Valkov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. Colleagues, as you know, we have changed the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In the version until 4 November 2016 it is published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 80, para. 4 t. The following information is available in the Official After that date, he's heard. 80, para. 5, t. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following 1. In para. 2 is created t. 4. "4." do not perform maneuvers expressing themselves in successively sudden passage into the lanes of motion. 2. In para. 3, p. 1 the words "alcohols, drugs or other narcotics' are replaced by "alcohols and/or narcotics or their analogues'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u193	Statements? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal to create a new § 1. Vote 67 MPs: for 67, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u194	Proposal by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 1 after the words..such as....to bypass the road vehicle.................... and comma............................................................................ is
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u195	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 2 on the Commission report. Vote 66 MPs: for 66, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u196	Proposal by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: In the event of an circumvention manoeuvre, the driver shall provide sufficient lateral distance between his or her road vehicle around him or her. (3) The driver of a motor vehicle shall be prohibited for no reason to perform maneuvers expressing itself in a sharp change of direction and successive sudden passage into the lanes of motion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u197	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 1 of the importer's report. Vote 69 MPs: 68, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 1 shall be rejected on a proposal from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u198	Proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." move or stop in the forced stop bar, except in the event of damage to the road vehicle, as well as in the case of health problems of the driver or passengers in the vehicle; 2. A t is created. 4. "4." move in the lane for oncoming traffic.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u199	Statements? I can't see. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 2, which becomes § 3. Commission proposal for § 3. Vote 65 MPs: 64, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u200	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by "3." move in the lane for oncoming traffic.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u201	Statements? I won't. We are voting in the version of § 4 on the Commission report. We are voting on a text on the Commission report. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The paragraph has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u202	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u203	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 5 on the Commission report. 70 MPs voted: 69 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u204	Proposal by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u205	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 6 on the Commission report. Vote 69 MPs: 68 against 1, no abstentions. The paragraph has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u206	Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Valkov according to the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 102 the words "alcohols, drugs or other drugs' are replaced by "alcohols and/or narcotics or their analogues'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u207	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 7. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u208	Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Claudia Gancheva. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 104b: Art. 104b. The driver of a motor vehicle shall be prohibited from: 1. oreganoes or participates in unregulated road races open to public use; 2. use the roads open for public use for other purposes than in accordance with their intended purpose for the transport of persons and goods.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u209	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 8. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The paragraph has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u210	Proposal by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 6, paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: 1 prior to the word..................................................................................................................... is added...................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 9. [[Reply from MP Petar Slavov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u211	He's withdrawing Mr. Slavov. Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Any other speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the creation of § 9..................................................................................................... Vote 68 MPs: for 68, against and abstention there is no. The unanimous paragraph has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u212	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: During the dark part of the day, drivers of animal-powered vehicles carry retro-reflective loads.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u213	Statements? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, the Commission's proposal for § 10. Vote 67 MPs: for 67, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 10 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u214	Proposal by the National Representative Tsvetomir Mihov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Valkov according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 11, § 12 and § 13: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123, para. 1, t. 3 points (b) (i) and (ii) shall be added after the words...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... § 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 124, p. 2 is finally a comma and is added if there are people affected in the accident. § 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 125 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Point 4 is repealed. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 words of alcohol, of another tranquilizer, shall be replaced by alcohol and/or narcotics or their analogues. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 the words "one of the motor vehicles is unable to move on its own due to the damage caused by the accident' are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u215	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission proposal to create new paragraphs 11, 12 and 13. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously, the three paragraphs have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u216	Proposal by Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. ................................................................................... In Article It's six. be careful and cautious to ensure safe carriage of passengers. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 8, which becomes § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 132 t. 2 is amended as "2." before departure and during driving, ensure all the conditions for their safe transport;
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u217	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission proposal for § 14. Vote 74 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 14 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u218	Proposal by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 9 be rejected: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced 132a. The driver of a motor vehicle shall be prohibited from leaving before he is satisfied that all measures have been taken pursuant to Section XXV of Chapter II.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u219	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal § 9 to be rejected. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's motion to reject § 9 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u220	Proposal from the MPs Teodora Georgieva and Ivan Valkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 137d. 1 is amended as follows: All seated passengers in motor vehicles of categories M2 and M3 when in motion shall use the restraint systems with which the motor vehicles are equipped. Child restraint systems under 12 years of age and less than 150 cm tall shall be approved in accordance with art. 137d, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u221	Statements? I can't see. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 15. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 15 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u222	Proposal by Petar Slavov and a group of MPs: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139 para. 1 is created t. 4. "4." with tyres intended for winter conditions during the period from 1 November to 1 April. Excuse me, the proposal of Petar Slavov and a group of MPs is: § 10 is deleted - what is not supported by the Commission. Proposal by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u223	A withdrawn proposal from Mr. Ananiev. Mr. Slavov, do you withdraw yours so we don't vote on it? [[Reply from MP Petar Slavov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u224	Proposal by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Dimitar Bajraktarov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal, which is: In § 10, under Article 10 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union shall apply the provisions of the Treaty "4." the depth of the tread pattern of the tyres of the cars during the period from 1 December to 31 March is not less than 4 mm. Proposal by the National Representative Ivan Valkov according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139 para. 1 is created t. 4. "4." in the case of snow or ice on the road with tyres intended for winter or chained tyres.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u225	Speeches, honourable colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, this is the text concerning the use of winter tyres in snow or ice as recorded. I suggest we reject this text. First of all, he's unclear because I'm giving you an immediate example. The condition is snow and ice, tires for winter conditions or tires with chains. You go from Sandanski, where it's 15 degrees, you go to Pernik, where it's minus one and there's ice. And I'm asking you, when you're out of control, what do you explain? [[Heckling]] The text thus formulated allows for abuse by the control bodies. It's definite, so please very much. Apart from that, I'll give you a reference to see that we're trying to do something that's not anywhere in the world. What is the situation in Europe? In France, winter tyres are not mandatory, in Denmark they are not mandatory, in Poland they are not mandatory, in Switzerland they are not mandatory, in Italy they are not mandatory, in Spain they are not mandatory, in the UK they are not mandatory, in Ireland they are not mandatory. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Sorry, first of all, look geographically. A large part of those countries that are pó to the north of us and where there are much worse weather conditions are not mandatory tires, and we are going to introduce an obligation here. It is very important to comply. Apart from that, a very important argument. Excuse me, but we want that segment of the Bulgarian population, which lives at the sanitary minimum, which drive cars, the value of which is between 300 and 500 BGN, to oblige them now to buy four tires that cost more than the cars themselves. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] You realize that, don't you?! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u227	Take it easy, guys, you're entitled to lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u228	Thirdly, I want to tell you something extremely important. There are no statistics in our country what percentage of the serious accidents are the result of the non-use of winter tyres. However, at the same time there are statistics that show that the worst accidents with victims on the road are during the summer period when there is no winter, there are no summer tires. Therefore, the causes of severe accidents are not the absence of winter tyres. I'll take the liberty of saying something. I do not know why this Bill was not assigned to the Internal Commission, which is relevant to these texts, because it is mainly about road control by the Department of Interior. And the third, which is, let's see if there's a lobbying element in this whole story about car tire importers. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u229	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. The first line asked Mr. Ananiev, the second line Mr. Mihov, the third line Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u230	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Atanasov! Let us read very clearly what is written in art. 139 para. 1 that road vehicles moving on the road must be on snow or ice on the road with tyres intended for winter conditions. This means that we assign the driver's responsibility to comply with the winter conditions, not in Vidin or Sandanski, if the temperature is different, so the time period has been cut. If we had a deadline, that means that at this time of the year, it's mandatory. Now we've done so that the driver must comply with the conditions and this is the most normal thing. You can't get on Pamporovo with summer tires. There are thousands of cases like this that ski, and we see them every year. So it's very important to me. You say people can't afford to change their tires. Well, don't drive a car then! We can't afford to increase the dead and the crashes because someone can't comply with weather conditions. When there's snow, you have to wear winter tires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u231	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Second line Mr. Mihov, third line Mr. Krasimir Velchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u232	Mr President, it was clear that there would be many debates at this point, which is why we have seen this text in the Commission for several months. Mr. Atanasov, I will address you with one request. You have read countries where there are no such obligations, but read the other seventeen where there are to be correct. You read ten where there are no obligations, but you don't read the other seventeen where there are. So far the practice has shown that in the remaining seventeen were righter than the ten that you have read and in which there is no such obligation. And the other argument that you said the price was like that. I wouldn't agree. By this logic, let's cut back and not have any civil liability, no courses, no exams, and so on. There's a basic rule in road traffic. Besides the responsibility you carry for yourself, for your life, for the people you ride, you also have the responsibility for the other road users, for all the others you meet, you get ahead of, you wait and so on. Because there were arguments that, you see, each has his own responsibility. When you are responsible for yourself, yes, I agree, but when you are also responsible for other actors in the movement, then I do not agree not to require and not to have such criteria. The only thing I agree with you, with your statement, is that it is very subjective when introduced on snow or on ice, because this will be rebutted in every single vessel, but if the snow melted, if it was ice, if it was frozen, if it was frozen? Traveling, if there's snow somewhere, we need to stop, change tires, and then when it's dry, we need to put our summer ones back on. This is a very subjective criterion, and I continue to hold, albeit already reduced, as we have suggested with my colleague in the Commission, to be an example from 15 November or 1 December to 1 March to reduce the deadline, but not subjective to snow, ice, rain, fog or other weather conditions and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u233	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Third line please, dear Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u234	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Atanasov! I start with this, you read the countries in Europe. In all countries, there is also a depth of the tread, and here is the exact opposite of the one-sixth order, which, believe me, I was in the center, watching what a 1.6-griff tire means, it's measured in the middle. That means it's on the side, as they say in slang, it's Galosh. You read, however, did not say that Bulgaria was first in death and auto-accidents. So we're gonna have to take some action. And the other thing you say about lobbying. It's funny you should say that, and I'll tell you why. Because when a person buys, for example, some summer tires, they can go 50 thousand kilometers, if he buys summer and winter, all four will go 100 thousand kilometers, so the importers will not import any more tires. It's a complete delusion you want to make. Lobism may be there, however, in another direction. I don't want to blame certain groups of people who are involved in transport, who is lobbying. I don't want to say that. So the fact that there is no one, as you said, and in our group there was such a statement, for example, bye-bye Pesho from a village with a violin, where to buy tires? Should this byi Pesho kill us in the streets or do I have to be calm when I move that some guy in one car is going to come up against me and he won't be able to take the turn because he doesn't have a tread, and everyone's saying that I've been listening lately to this thing that the winter tire has one grip at low temperatures, and the summer has quite another grip. There's no way we can bear the blame or the responsibility. Like my colleague before me said, for example, they get into Pamporovo and they go there with summer tires, not to mention that the tread is 1.5 millimeter, and there are no chains. Let's make sure that families and children don't freeze on the roads because of two or three cars that are blocking the road and can't get through, and they can't go home or move on. So think not on behalf of lobbying. And I think we should all think like road users and what to do is not see how to save the money of those who don't, but how to make it safer on roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u235	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Duplica, General Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, none of you with your line convinced me otherwise. Let's see the text because we are debating a specific text. The way the text is formulated makes it possible for the control authorities to abuse it. And I'm giving you an example again. There may be no snow at all, enough temperatures to drop below zero, the puddles to freeze and the control bodies can sanction you. Look, you're gonna be fined with a ticket and you can't appeal to him on top of that. You can't defend yourself in a court of law. So the text in the way it is proposed does not fulfil this function that you want. Otherwise I am for this, but this issue here is not regulated. I'm about to determine the larger size of the tread 4 mm as it is in France, let's say or near-where you are. But this issue is not being dealt with here. Apart from that, do not underestimate the social problem, honourable Members. I hate to break it to you at this bank, but we in this payroom we get, we can buy four pairs of winter tires of the year, right? For the vast majority of the Bulgarian population, this is a mistake in the pocket. Thirdly, I would like to return you to the fact that there are no statistics in Bulgaria on how many of the accidents, especially those with victims, are the result of such technical malfunctions. I repeat, look at the statistics that exist as a time period and you will see that the most accidents with road victims are in August, which are due to quite other reasons. So this is no reason at all to introduce this type of obligation. By finishing, I return you to what I told you at the beginning. The text is not correct at all. After so much thinking, after so much discussion, there is a leaky text here, where the subjective element will be present both by the driver and by the control body. And the subjective element must not play when it comes to obligations and sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u237	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. For a statement they have signed up by order, Delyan Dobrev, Vladimir Toshev, Petar Kadiev and Tsvetomir Mihov. [[GERB lines.]] You filed for a reply, agree in the group of GERB. Here you are, Mr. Dobrev. He was the first to respond to Mr. Ananiev's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u238	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I and at a meeting in the Parliamentary Group of GERB expressed my concerns about the adoption of such a type of text. Here I would like to present two arguments for my position to you. The first is that if we look at the geographical location of countries where there is and where there is no requirement for winter tyres, we will notice that there is no such obligation anywhere in the countries of southern Europe. It is quite normal in Scandinavian countries, where there is a long winter, heavy weather conditions, to have an obligation for winter tyres. There is no such obligation even in France you know, North France geographically is pò to the north rather than Bulgaria, in the UK and in Ireland, and suddenly we in Bulgaria, a southern country where there are no particularly severe winters, introduce such a requirement. And it introduces this requirement purely voluntarily. We do not even have a European Union directive which obliges us to do something like this and to load the Bulgarian taxpayer with additional costs for buying winter tyres. The situation is somewhat similar, of course, not on the same scale, to photovoltaics in 2007, without anyone driving us, the poorest country in the European Union, decided and gave the biggest incentives, and even then with the Photovoltaics Act for 3 years we achieved the goal of 2020 and suddenly we realized that it was very expensive. We don't even have an obligation here, we don't have a directive to oblige us. At the same time, we decide because a car could be stuck on the road to Pamporovo, as if so many years ago this car hadn't been stuck and we hadn't waited for all of us, if something like this happened, we suddenly decided to load millions of Bulgarian households with the obligation to buy winter tires. My second argument is with regard to the text itself. This text is so subjective that I feel that even in August they can fine us. Is there snow, is there snow, is there ice, is there no ice, is there no ice, is it what the temperature is, plus 2 is, minus 2 is, how are we going to prove this temperature? You can imagine what racketeering can be placed on all drivers of motor vehicles in Bulgaria if such a subjective text is adopted, which sounds like a wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u239	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. A line to Mr. Dobrev's statement? Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u240	Dear colleagues! Mr. Dobrev, you obviously didn't hear what I just said, or you weren't in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u241	I was here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u242	We don't burden anyone. We don't burden anyone! Well, should I explain that when you have both winter and summer, you're going to go 100,000. A mile in those tires? And if you only have one, you'll pass 50 grand. What kind of load are we talking about? This, one. Secondly, you're using, I don't know why, some statistics. And I'll tell you, it's a very wrong statistic. You mention again several countries in Europe that do not have these norms. That is why I say I think my colleague has just said that the other 16 countries do not mention them, which have obligations. I'll tell you why there is no one in these countries, because everyone here is silent, who I don't know why they're protecting some other thesis. Because those countries that you said there was no law, did you know that insurance companies, if you're wearing a different tire, or if you're not wearing seasonal tires, don't pay you anything. Thus they regulate the use of belts, which is the same. There the DMV doesn't fine you for a belt, but if you crash and you don't have a belt, they don't pay you any insurance. Unfortunately, neither the insurance company has taken measures, nor we here, because we sit here and keep our mouths shut. There's a bad conscience, let's force them to become like everyone else. Because those who are conscientious, I do not believe that someone who cares about his family, about his children, about his grandchildren, will let them go by car. Pretty soon, a month ago, there was a case where, because you said there were no statistics, an old man with his grandchild, beat up his grandchild. It was on TV, too. I say it if you don't watch TV. And he hit the top of his head in a truck. Then I asked myself the question, and if another car came across the street with another family with children, how many people would be killed because he didn't have tires!? You're right about that. I am also for winter tyres from 1 December to 1 March, three months, which are heavy in Bulgaria. Because otherwise, as Mr. Atanasov says, it can really happen to be abused by the authorities of the DMV. Because we're always yelling at each other now, it's snowing, it's not snowing, it's fined. With a fixed date and these are the hard months in Bulgaria, for 3 months we can oblige them. But the tread, the depth, if we don't take these measures, I don't know what we're meeting for and what committee we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u243	Second line, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u244	Mr. Chairman, I missed telling my colleague earlier that he left the room when he read statistics in how many countries was allowed and how many were forbidden. And did you know that Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union in which it is allowed to import and put tires in second-hand, for example? The only one, there's no other one! This thing is being punished everywhere. We are clearly not going to come to such extreme measures. After all, we appreciate people's social condition that they can't cope with being poorer and so on. But, understand, the responsibility to drive is commitment and responsibility, both to yourself, to the people you drive, and to all those involved in the movement. You can't put the lives and health of all participants at risk because you didn't bother or something to drive the car with the right tires for the winter. I still don't see it as an argument. I think Mr. Velchev has been thorough, and here in no way can it be lobbying, because if someone has sold 1,000 summers by now, he will now sell 500 winters and 500 summers. Do you understand? The number will be the same. And if the mileage of one pair of tires is three years of normal driving or five, in this case, you'll be driving 10 two pairs. So in no way will each participant's budget, each car owner, be loaded. On the contrary, with this decision, which I did not support in the Commission for the introduction of possible chains and so on, I strongly voted against, because that is where you will load the budget. You're gonna buy some chains that you use, not her. It is very vague the text, as Mr. Atanasov said, what does it mean with the chains to be placed, to be in the trunk, to be placed only in the front or only in the back, or only on one wheel?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u245	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Third line, Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Dobrev, honourable colleagues! In a nutshell, I would like to share my opinion as well. Firstly, there is absolutely no need to have a European Union directive in order to adopt a sensible decision. Secondly, there is no one in this room, I am convinced, who drives, not to be convinced of the stability of the winter tire car. And it's ridiculous to think otherwise! Thirdly, I believe that this version of the Law is one of the most appropriate because in snow and ice the situation may require winter tyres both October and May. I was on Belmeken in May and I had trouble on the way. Everyone's a judge. And the driver is obliged to decide what the weather situation will be in the coming days and when Sandanski leaves for Northern Bulgaria, he is obliged to put his winter tires on. I've put them on in early November and I'll take them down March, April according to my schedule and travels. But we must oblige the stability of cars and drivers in winter. That's what happens with the winter tires. I'm convinced of this thing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u247	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Delyan Dobrev has the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u248	My fellow Members, you have not been able to convince me of the correctness of your arguments. I still believe that my position is the right one. If you really want to convince me that this thing needs to be done exactly in Bulgaria, you need to show some research: Bulgaria has a year-long average snow, a day-long ice, a lot more than in France for example; France has half, so there are no obligations for winter tyres; it rains a lot more snow; there is a much bigger snow cover than in Ireland all winter in Bulgaria; our snow cleaning companies and highway contracts, by cities and so on are not implemented, there is a week of snow, there is a real problem that we are really trying to solve. Keep in mind that there are many people in Bulgaria who drive cars during the winter very rarely. They can pull out their car twice during the winter period..Twice during the winter period can pull out their car. We will now oblige them for these two outings with the car.. can be very short distance away, to buy a set of winter tires. A set of winter tires, even if we get them from the cheapest, must cost 200 leva. There was a lobbying toss. I don't see where the bigger lobbying is in forcing someone to buy one or two million sets of winter tires for 200 levs. the kit, and not to overburden the Bulgarian household if that is not necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u249	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. For a statement there is the popular representative Vladimir Toshev. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, you're on record. I will inform you in a row "Vladimir Toshev, Petar Kadiev, Tsvetomir Mihov, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Nastimir Ananiev and Ivan Valkov. In this order you are recorded here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would like to start because there is talk of conflict of interest and so on, lobbying... First of all, I don't have a tire iron, and I don't have any friends and relatives who have rubber tires. Secondly, personally, I am firm about the winter tires and the summer tires. I'll try to argue now. I think it's a very powerful populism to say that we burden households. I'll tell you why. First of all, I want to say something: there are no all-season tires. There's no such thing, even though there are tires that are labeled as all-seasons. There can't be such a miracle. If any of you show me shoes that wear them both in summer and winter, and are equally suitable, I will agree with him that there are such tires. Secondly, summer tyres harden below seven-eight degrees and down and wear out much faster than winter tyres, which are generally soft and are therefore used at lower temperatures. Separately the treads, the tire pattern and so on. The other thing I want to say is that when the tire hardens, it wears out twice, three times more, which means that we burden households to buy more often summer tires, and separately it's a fact that those here are crying about with crocodile tears, that they have no money to buy winter tires, well, they don't drive, people. They're Easter drivers who hang around two, three thousand kilometers a year. Their tires are depreciated by standing in the garages or under the sheds, not by driving. So let's not think about them, let's think about ourselves! I'll tell you one fact. Colleague Dobrev, I will tell you a fact that is statistics. During the Falkland War between England and Argentina, three and a half times more people died in England than in the war, in the war. So, here we are impressed when someone says that a plane has fallen and 300 people have died, God forbid, to happen, but about three thousand times more are killed on the ground than accidents, and more than 50% of those who die from accidents have malfunctioning braking systems and inadequate tires. Let us not think that we are doing good to someone by not introducing this norm. What about France, Italy, Switzerland, let us not compare ourselves to them! There the load on drivers such as insurance, taxes, insurance is several times higher than in Bulgaria. If we introduce these hidden mechanisms to force drivers to move one way or another, then they will become much bigger. Let's accept something that won't burden anyone but save our lives. I don't agree to drive with winter tires, drive carefully in a fixed car and have someone come out with no money to change their brakes, no money to change their liquid in the windshields, freeze the glass, no money to buy winter tires, and like a kamikaze gets stuck in me and kills me with my family. I don't agree with this because I'm asking you to accept this norm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u251	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. First line, Gen. Atanas Atanasov, 2nd [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Dobrev. Keep in mind it was a big fight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u252	Dear Mr. Toshev, I also drive with winter tires, I've always driven with winter tires. I didn't say it, and I didn't point out their advantages, like you did. There are many advantages to winter tires! I didn't say it so we wouldn't have to advertise the parliamentary tribune of the winter tires. But that's not what this is about. This is about the obligation of several million households in Bulgaria to buy tires in the next 15 days. In the next 15 days! And I told you, a million households, if they have to buy winter tires, let's say this is the part that doesn't have winter tires, a set of cheap ones costs 50 leva. The tire, i.e. the set is 200 leva. One million households at 200 leva. $200 million. BGN, which Bulgarian citizens must remove in the next 15 days if this text passes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u253	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Second line please, Mr. Atanasov. Mr. Nenkov, you or Peter Slavov? You guys work it out. A lot of activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague, it is absolutely incorrect to go out, MP, and from the stands of the National Assembly to say: Let us think about ourselves! Our job here is not to think about ourselves. [[Noise and lines.]] That's what you said you could see the transcript. Or maybe... [[Noise and lines.]] Oh, of course! Okay. Let people hear that we accept texts that we think of ourselves with. [[Noise and lines.]] You heard him, all of you! I checked in the meantime and I would like to tell you by statistics in Bulgaria what are the main causes of road accidents. First is the inappropriate speeding; second is non-compliance with an advantage; third is incorrect ahead. Somewhere at 7 o'clock is a technical malfunction. Do you realize that this is not at all a problem that wants this type of regulation?! In other words, winter, summer tires are not the problem of most accidents. It should be legal regulation and traffic control in the first place to look for mechanisms to limit these causes, rather than to deal with something that seems, at first glance, minor in terms of statistics. I can't figure out what that motivation is.! Apart from that, I'm going back to what I did, and Dobrev said it, and someone else. We can't be pó Catholics from the pope. Let's see how it is in the world. When I make reference to regulations in Europe, do you know what it is? That the mandatory winter tires exist in Scandinavian countries and in former socialist countries. In the former socialist countries! Nowhere in the West is this thing, nowhere! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u255	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Here you are, dear Mr. Nenkov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u256	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Toshev, I will use my right to a line because I could not make one for Mr. Dobrev to tell you something you forgot to mention in your speech in support of your words. The state or the municipality is obliged to provide you with transport, it is required to clean the streets, you pay taxes for this, it is required to provide you with equal access to school, to work, to be able to contribute to the state and to the municipality. But neither the state nor the municipality is obliged to buy you a car, nor is it obliged to ensure that it is absolutely correct, nor is it obliged to find you a parking space in this car...........................that is your duty and responsibility. Not because we have a higher reward and we look at our own interests, we are sent here to make important decisions. Important decisions are such that we are in one of the first places, if not in the first place, in the number of accidents and deaths on the roads and we have no right to back down. On the contrary, it has to be more restrictive in this direction in order to be able, although there are no accurate statistics on whether it will be from winter tyres, whether it will be speeding, whether it will be from any of the segments which have led to accidents and to victims, should be limited. It is not his right for any driver, it is not any luxury, and everyone who has a car must ensure that it is correct and not endanger other people's lives. There is no doubt that a winter tyre driven in summer and vice versa, this tire of the next season no longer has any qualities and it is not just about treads, but about the alloy of the tyre itself. Without being a specialist, but everyone knows it, everyone has felt it on their backs. Try getting on a summer tire, driving the winter to see what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u257	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Mr. Toshev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On my colleague Dobrev's account are very cheap tires. The average winter loss class is about 120 BGN. for the normal size 15 In three years to assume that it is exploited, which is minimal for the drivers you are talking about, they exploit it for ten years, but in three years, let's say, which is the normal operating period, there are about forty pennies a day. I'm sorry if someone thinks he's a driver and that he drives a car and doesn't have forty cents a day to invest in his health. To Mr. Atanasov, I must say, in my health, Mr. Atanasov. I said it to myself because I don't know what kind of cars you drive. I only move in my own car and wind up between six and ten thousand kilometers a month. I don't agree to constantly fear that there are murderers against me who are going to deal with me in some ugly way. With regard to regulation, unfortunately, this is one of the reasons that causes death in Bulgaria, murder on the road, because I say it is murder, which does not comply with this norm if we accept it. It is not regulated, otherwise we have regulation for headlights, we have regulation for speeds, we have for belts and everything else. In terms of the notorious West. They weren't in socialism and they didn't learn to lie, so they followed their rules without being written. [[Radio and applause by GERB.]] What do we do now?! We must discipline this nation until the likes of us adults are gone, where they have learned to cheat and lie to the superiors. [[Laughter and excitement.]] I'm sorry to say this thing, but it's true. Regarding another, check because you very much like to quote, but very electorally you quote these statistics. I don't know how much time I have left, I still have a little time. See what kind of insurance you are referring to in the countries you are quoting [[noise and lines]] , and those who are with us. They're immeasurable. If we set their rules, they won't let us out of parliament. [[Reply.]] It's got something to do with it, of course. Now we're regulating something that's not in the regulations. I'm sorry, too, but I'm glad to see that there are no parties here. There are people here who think of themselves, their loved ones, and everyone, and those who think populist because a summer tire... Colleagues who drive now with summer tires know he's wasting them three times faster and throwing his money away. Please change your winter tires. Thank you. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u259	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Mr. Dobrev, please come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u260	Mr. Chairman, I'm making you a remark in the manner of conduct. In my opinion, policies should be discussed here, not specific MPs who have proposed what. For the last forty cents a day I heard from Mr. Toshev, multiplied by 365 days, makes exactly BGN 146, Mr. Toshev. BGN 146. in your words every year you burden more Bulgarian households on those 100 BGN. for wine, on those 150 leva. for civil liability. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And don't for example give high insurance in Switzerland. Look at the income as a percentage of the insurance and compare it in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u261	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I accept the manner of conduct, although you in GERB cannot understand each other. You're all of different opinions, so I'm obliged to give you my word. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The word has the people's representative Petar Kadiev, followed by Tsvetomir Mihov, after him "Dimitar Bajraktarov."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I'll start with this, first it was explained that there are no winters, no summer tires. Well, yes, but manufacturers where tires are made to have grip in winter conditions have the appropriate sign. Besides, I don't agree that there's no all-season tires. There are. I did a lot of digging, and I even commented, and I'm not gonna say a company so I don't advertise, there are tires that have the right sign, and this sign resembles a mountain. All this was done by the manufacturer why? Because you have to create safety conditions on the road. What we are doing right now is exactly what we need to create such conditions so that no more accidents happen. I can give you many examples because I have been a driver for forty years, I live in the mountains and I have constantly had to travel in all kinds of conditions. My car is an SUV, and it's got a lot of extras, not to mention almost all the extras. I've had cases on business trips, I go back, snow falls into the mountains, and I can barely lower the slope of the Expanse, with thousands of conventions. If there was a car across the street from me, maybe I would have swept it away. This thing makes me be about change. So let's make sure that we really create conditions for the drivers, and especially the safety not only of us, but also of those who are against us. Because when that happens and the least responsibility is being sought, the fact that you can kill someone, you have to think about it a lot. I'm in for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u263	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. A line of speech? First line here, Mr. Slavov. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Replices, Mr. Mihov, you're not listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u264	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kadyev, I take the opportunity for this line and I want to ask you something, because you have told us some things quite expertly, including the way you travel on mountain roads during the winter season and so on. I want to ask you, here in the text it is written that it is about tires designed for winter conditions. You yourself mentioned the so-called Seasonal Tyres: do you think they are included in this text tomorrow, if people have bought the so-called Seasonal Tyres, will they be correct if this text is adopted, or will they not be? [[Reply: "Yes, yes. "]] That's one thing. The other thing I want to ask you. I see here a proposal of my colleague Bajraktarov, I think it was, which concerns the tread. If you accept the proposal for tires intended for winter conditions, but nothing is said about the size of the tread if a person drives with worn winter tyres and at the same time another one, for example, drives with seasonal, with a 4 mm tread, isn't the second one in practice that moves safer. So is it right to think about either one or the other, or should there be something added to the size of the tread that this tire should still have if we really aim for the safety of people rather than something else?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u265	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Second line, Delyan Dobrev. Is there anyone who wants a third line? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u266	Dear Mr. Kadyev, I don't argue with your thesis. I accept it completely. Winter tires are safer. We must try to convince the public that he is putting himself and others at great risk if he drives in winter with summer tires. However, what I am opposed to is us again with a decision of the National Assembly, not by conviction, but by law, to oblige all Bulgarian households to make such a significant expense. There are really people here who can afford it, and they can't afford it, we can owe them, but there are people who can't afford it. They hardly drive their cars in winter. If really one quality winter tire of the standard size for cars is 120 BGN, four tires are 480 BGN. One million households, if they don't have winter tires, is 480 million. lv. [[Heckling]] Here we are talking about the fact that we will load Bulgarian households with one huge cost and will load them with law and not with conviction. I agree to do as many campaigns as you want for us to highlight the advantages of winter tires and encourage people to buy winter tires when they can. If they can't buy winter tires, don't drive their cars in winter time to make us all feel safe on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u267	Thank you. Third line? I won't. The right to dodge, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll answer with just one thing. When this text came to the Commission, I was very interested in which part of the tyre it keeps and actually gives grip. A lot of people are fooling themselves right now that it's the big griffin. That's not true. The finer part, the finer tread, actually gives the grip of the wheel.. Whether it is in winter or in summer conditions. Yes, I agree that when it comes to a 1.4 or 1.6 protector, it already starts to be on the threshold, but in the end the manufacturer himself gives the corresponding parameters of this tyre. So anyone who puts on such a tire must know what parameter it will work with. And to conviction, it's not just a matter of conviction. Look, December 8th, I memorized it with something. On December 8th it always snows on Pamporovo and come see what happens from Chepelare to Pamporovo. Chaos, catastrophes and so on. And that's always, every year. Well, let's let whoever decided to be there, ski or celebrate, make an account and secure themselves, secure the surroundings and then leave. And actually then it's not about conviction anymore, it's about something different. We're talking about a human life here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u269	Thank you. The word for speech has the popular representative Tsvetomir Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll use it in the speech procedure to make an editorial amendment. This is for colleagues who still approach the Bill with mistrust and especially for this text to Mr. Dobrev, Mr. Atanasov and so on. This proposal was also made by my colleague Pavel Dimitrov in the Commission. Unfortunately, it was not supported enough to become part of the text we have at second reading. This text we're offering, I'm going to read it. Mr. Chairman, if you want, I'll give it to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u271	I think you'll give it to me in writing, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u272	The text would sound like this: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139 para. 1 is created t. 4. "4." with tyres designed for winter conditions or with tyres with tread depth not less than or equal to 4 mm for the period from 15 November to 1 March. This way, we give two options to all drivers. One option is that you want to put on your winter tyres with better grip, because when we talk about winter tyres, we don't talk about snow or ice or other adverse conditions along the way. We're talking mostly about temperatures because the winter conditions we all know we can have a whole winter without snow, but the temperatures are spinning around zero. All specialists say that a summer tire below 7 degrees of air temperature what gives the road as indicators are quite different, especially because of the property of the rubber, which behaves in one way in cold and behaves otherwise in a warmer way. That is why we are talking in winter conditions, and we are not talking in snow, ice or other hypotheses, which would be hypothetical, would give an opportunity to appeal to such slips and an opportunity for other interpretations. I think this is how we give the people who have decided either one or the other an opportunity. But let's really let those who have decided and don't want to buy new winter tyres or at least be winter tyres, give them the opportunity to drive with those who have available, but the depth of the tread to meet the minimum conditions that a car must have under winter conditions, not as it is currently recorded in the Road Traffic Regulations. Do you know what the requirement is right now? The requirement is 1.6 mm tread tread. Let's all imagine what 1.6 mm means in the middle of the tire. Everyone do that with their hands and imagine what 1.6 in the middle is, at the end we have probably 0.2. That's what's written in the traffic regulations. If we do not accept any text that will somehow change this thing, we will allow everyone who has decided in the winter conditions, or the adverse weather conditions during this period, to drive with tyres that are 1.6 mm in the middle. I ask you again, before you vote just do so with your hands and imagine what 1.6 mm is for winter. Then decide how you will vote and whether we all want in any way to change something or whether we are going along the line of populism, let us drive to the end of this National Assembly to do nothing and to do whatever is going to happen after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u273	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Hristov. [[Reply of Tsvetomir Mihov with MPs from GERB.]] Mr. Mihov, specify whether it's an editorial note, or if it's a whole text. I feel like this is a whole text, not an editorial note.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u274	No, the text of the importer is an editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u275	We'll put it to the vote. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u276	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Mihov, naturally, will support the proposal that we made together in committee and repeat now in the Chamber. But I would like to point out to you that you are missing some arguments that have been put out in committee, and it is important to say in the Chamber. With regard to winter tyres, a number of paintings of each of us were displayed on this committee, describing in winter times tens or hundreds of cheerful drivers of cars, headed in ice and snow with winter tires, causing traffic jams and dozens of accidents both on the long-distance roads and in cities. Of course, there's no statistics. There is no such statistic because there has never been such a requirement before. You forgot to mention one more thing, mate. Another proposal concerning the placing of chains under certain conditions shall be treated. But we fail to comment so helpfully that there are no criteria and requirements for the quality of these chains. There are different types of chains.. there are metal, there are textile, there are liquid, sprays, and all kinds of similar. But nowhere do we set minimum requirements for these chains to be safe. Not once or twice were the cases when improperly mounted or low quality chains caused accidents because they were torn, ripped out of them like shrapnels and created a number of other problems. Not to mention that their efficiency outside snow is zero. On ice and on asphalt these chains have absolutely no value, no effect, no help in grip or stability of the car. I would ask you, if you take the backrest, to further develop the mentioned ones, because they are important for the reasoned decision only in a few moments, whether to oblige each driver to drive safely during the winter period, using winter tyres, or to continue in the same way as to date, causing dozens or hundreds of accidents, sometimes with fatal consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u277	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Second line, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u278	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mihov proposed, in my opinion, a very reasonable version of the text, so I hope you will put it to the vote. Its editing, if I have understood well and please Mr. Mihov to confirm, if so, says that it is not necessary to drive with winter tyres...............................can be winter tires........................... In this case, all people with good summer tires will also be able to drive during winter time. I think I've dropped the arguments I've mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u279	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Is there a third line? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You understand exactly and correctly, Mr. Dobrev. That was my suggestion. I'm giving people the opportunity to choose two choices. One is to buy typical and specific winter tires or in areas of the country where we hypothetically decide that the winter period is lighter, winter is softer, they will be able to drive with their available summer tires or with those they bought, but not with a depth of the tread less than 4 mm. With that, I think we're fulfilling both conditions for everyone in this room. At the remark put by Paul Hristov, with him in the committee and now, before the speeches, we debated a lot of things about the specifics of one and the other tires. There's an opportunity to talk here for hours and days. After all, it's the hall that decides. I think that this proposal that I have just made, at least from the conversations that I have with my colleagues, would be supported to a much higher extent than what was discussed in committee and what was the importer's and other options. That is why I have made the editorial amendment, and I will really ask you, fellow Members, that we proceed to a vote. I think this is the most real and possible thing that we could do and would correspond to both of them and the other opinions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u281	Do you have a termination procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u282	Perhaps there are other colleagues who would like to speak. I don't do termination procedures. Let's each make a statement. I'm still saying that's the smartest thing to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u283	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. The next statement is by Dimitar Bayraktarov. Then entered Nastimir Ananiev and Ivan Valkov. Bear in mind that it is 2:00 p.m. without 15 minutes, we can go outside 2:00 p.m., which means we will not vote on Mr. Mihov's proposal and the wording of § 16 on the committee report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u284	Tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u285	Tomorrow is regulated today we have accepted any t. 1 a t. 2 is the military point, so it's off for next week. It's just a matter of judgment from the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u286	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the new item. 4 to para. 1 in art. 139 is extremely important, but I think the debate should be held in the right direction. Those who have made proposals under this article, including myself, have had quite serious conversations with different groups of experts so that we can really offer a text for the benefit of society, for the benefit of people's safety and at the same time not to their detriment and damage. Perhaps from this whole discussion the good thing is, and I am now saying that I will support the text that my colleague Mihov is proposing, as this is the right text. Why is it the right text? Because, honourable Members, I would first like to share with you the opinion of experts and experts in this area and to tell you that winter tyres do not exist, as strange as that sounds to you. The tires that we have accepted as winter, in fact from a professional point of view, are snow tyres. I'm telling you what the experts told me. That's why there's a snowflake on them, not because the snowflake is a symbol of winter, but because they're snow tires. Just as we were commenting on all these things, the other big problem came up. And it is that a huge part of the vehicles from motor vehicles I repeat because in art. 139 there is something that you probably didn't notice that there is a sign for road vehicles, and a road vehicle is also horsepower. What kind of tires would we put on it if we went into that depth? But I am abstracting these things and telling you things that are important. For one large part of the vehicles there is actually no and never has been production, conditionally I say, of winter tyres. These are the buses that have more than 40 people riding, these are the big trucks and so on. For them there is no production of winter tyres, i.e. these drivers, these owners of such vehicles, we are already supposed to turn them into intruders. The second motive for which I will support the compromise text of my colleague Mihov. For example, in the area of the city. Sandanski, Petrich and so on, believe me, there's hardly any snow there. It's hardly snowing there! Even in the worst colds we have here in Sofia, temperatures are in the range of 10 to 12 degrees. That is, we presumably oblige these people to use tyres that are not intended for the conditions under which they live and develop their activities and lives. That's why we're gonna do the wrong thing here again. Finally, to conclude with my speech, it is precisely for this reason that we stepped forward that the depth of the tread should be in this period not less than 4 mm. This is the proposal that I have made, and this requirement to apply for the period from 1 December 31 March, as we made and cross-referenced through the Meteorological Institute in what period of time it snows and there is a danger that you will be caught by a snowstorm and so on. Otherwise, by accepting only one text unambiguously, this means that we will actually damage large groups of citizens, others will turn them into intruders simply because they cannot implement and implement the Law. Therefore, the right proposal is.. and I will support it, the proposal of my colleague Mihov, as it is compromiseable and at the same time allows for flexibility, allows the Law to be implemented. Thank you and I appeal to support the compromise version of my colleague Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u287	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. A line? I won't. Mr. Ananiev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u288	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I would support my colleague Mihov's proposal. I would, of course, nail the deadline from 1 December to 1 March. In general, the two weeks are not fatal, but it is very important what signal we give as National Assembly. Last week, the signal we gave at the 60 kilometers, which is above the limit we rejected, wasn't good for me. We as National Assembly must say that road safety is important to us and this is the signal we are giving. Yes, there are shades. It's a very specific subject. Everyone said we were the first to die on the road. Yes, the first to share with Romania was 95 deaths per million inhabitants. And only one shade. Speed is the biggest killer. Someone said there's no statistics. In fact, speed is the biggest killer, because when you drive with summer tires in winter conditions, your stopping distance is increasing and in fact the crashes are driven at an inadequate speed, but they are, in fact, because you didn't comply with your speed and the braking path under the conditions under which you were driving. So let us adopt at least a text that transfers this responsibility to the drivers. Everyone can't do what they want. There must be such a responsibility, to take into account and thus to combat the black statistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u289	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. A line? I can't see. Mr. Valkov, come in. The word has the popular representative Ivan Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedure to extend the work of today's sitting until the adoption of the paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u291	A reverse opinion? I won't. Mr. Ivan Valkov's proposal is to extend the time until the adoption of this paragraph. Colleagues, please vote. Vote 69 MPs: 61, against 3, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u292	Mr. Chairman, I want you to give us a chance to re-vote, because there were people who couldn't vote. A colleague from the Reformation Bloc just walked in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u293	Yeah, I saw that move in the gym. If you please, re-vote mode. We are voting for an extension of the working hours of today's plenary day until the vote on the proposals for § 16 is completed in the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 72 against 3, abstention 3. The proposal to extend working hours has been accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Wolfe.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring clarity to the statistics that have been said here by this tribune, about these proposals that have been made in the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Road Traffic. Statistics were made by 39 countries of the European Union and three approaches were adopted mainly. One which is an imperative supplied movement of road vehicles and motor vehicles with tyres intended for winter conditions. These are five countries in Europe. Seventeen countries, including Britain, Spain, Italy, France and so on, have a recommended mode of movement of winter tyres. In seven countries including Ukraine, Belarus and Greece, there is no traffic regime with regard to tyres. I would like to make this clarification because, in the Commission, the debate that was being held was mainly about whether to be an imperative obligation or to make the approach that was taken as a recommendation. I think it was an extremely good discussion that was being held in this House, and the text that has been transmitted by our colleague Mr. Mihov is good, and I think we can change the deadline. I am a member of the European Parliament from 1 December to 1 March, as this deadline corresponds more precisely because we have different climate areas in the country. The point is that there is an obligation, and we have a deadline, which is very important for the fulfilment of this condition for tyres. The proposal that was made for the depth of the protector is extremely important 4 mm. It is not done by accident, as is currently done, not in the Rules of Application, but in a regulation of the Ministry of Interior, where the depth of the tread is 1.6 mm. I don't know what it's based on, but on all reports, all tyre manufacturers, the critical tyre values after which the tyre loses its properties are between 3 and 4 mm. Therefore, I believe that the 4 mm lodged by my colleague is extremely accurate and they are based on what tire manufacturers say. In this regard, I propose that the text of the colleague who was proposed here be adopted by proposing that there be only a change in the period from 1 December to 1 March. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u295	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u296	My fellow Members, I will try to be very brief. Firstly, the question of lobbying has been raised, and I think that in the future it is morally on our part when we get up here to say if there is a conflict of interest. That's why I'm saying that I don't have any taxi companies, no tyre importers, no producers, no persons related to me. About the winter tires. I keep insisting on the winter tire, and I'll tell you why. If it didn't make sense of the winter tyre, because it wasn't just for snow, there was a statement here that there was therefore a snowflake - snowflake is about something else: to determine that it was a winter tyre, but, I repeat: here were quoted producers and producers' opinions. Under 7 degrees, 5 degrees plus, below this temperature, the winter rubber and rubber have some properties for grip in the road and wear, and a completely different quality is the summer rubber. I want each and every one of you to ask yourself the question: if it's all the same, and not only the tread matters, what will producers produce winter tyres for? They will be much cheaper to produce one type of tire and make their business much lighter. So they're gonna make their own lives harder and make winter tires?! But that's another question. About corruption. Yes, the proposal not to allow corruption schemes is correct because there is a deadline. We can't say that the Road Police should stop you at the rest of the time and say: "Why are you wearing one or two tires, why aren't you wearing one? " - Although we need to think about one question, like October or November to stop you and say: "Why are you wearing winter tyres and not summer tires?" - We need to think about this because we might get racketeering in another direction. They'll say, "Why are you in winter tires?" [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u297	It's not forbidden.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u298	But it's said that you should be... Okay. We talked about expenses, there's no point in putting them on. That's not some social concern. I have to tell you, in the whole world, a car is not a necessity, it's a luxury. If you want to drive, buy and be safe on the road. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] Because by the same logic, sir, not to say the name so you don't want an explanation later, the same is if they stop you and you burn the light bulb on the lighthouse and say, "Wait, now I don't have money, you're gonna make me buy a light bulb!" It's a malfunctioning vehicle. Since you're not wearing those tires, you're in a faulty car. If we talk and we care so much about these ordinary people, bye-bye-who you are, who is with the violin, let's not forget that when we think about it, we miss all those companies that have cars and are obliged to have their cars with the winter tires or with the seasonal tires that they should be, and with the tread that they should have. Not accepting this thing under this pretext that you're saying means those who have money, and they can ride with galoshes. I don't understand it. Therefore, unfortunately, colleagues, if we have to end and be compromised, perhaps at this stage, I repeat, I am for the winter tires, but it is not as a proposal. The Commission does not have it in the Draft Law, we still have to accept what Mr. Mihov said. For the term, I don't think it matters that much. If it's two weeks longer, two weeks less, it doesn't matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-11-24.u299	A line to Mr. Velchev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Firstly, honourable Members, in the Commission report, we are voting on the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Petar Slavov, which the Commission does not support. Since it has been a very long time, the Commission report § 10 deletes this is the importer's proposal and in the Commission's report becomes § 16. We are voting on Petar Slavov's proposal, not supported by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: 2 against 14, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. Nastimir Ananiev's next offer has been withdrawn. The proposal of Ivan Valkov was withdrawn. Dimitar Bayraktarov withdraws the offer. Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. We still have to vote on Mr. Tsvetomir Mihov's proposal. This is § 16 in the Commission report. I'm reading Mr. Mihov's proposal: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139 para. 1 is created t. 4. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 4. with tyres designed for winter conditions or with tyres with tread depth not less than or equal to 4 mm during the period from 15 November to 1 March. Is the text correct? [[(Reply by MP Tsvetomir Mihov:]] From 15 November to 1 March is the proposal of Tsvetomir Mihov and Mr. Valkov's proposal is from 1 December. We are now voting on Mr. Tsvetomir Mihov's proposal: from 15 November to 1 March. Vote 79 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. In fact, this is § 16 in the Commission's report, changing the preliminary text that has been complicated. [[Noise and lines.]] The whole Paragraph 16 has just been voted on. Paragraph 16 has just been read. Nothing, colleagues, to be exact about the shorthand recording. I ask you to vote on § 16 in the Commission report, it is covered, but with the newly made editorial proposal. We vote on the Commission text for § 16, with the editorial proposal of Tsvetomir Mihov. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary control announcements for 25 November 2016, Friday, starting time 11.00: Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science in Retirement Meglena Kuneva will answer three questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov, Nikolay Alexandrov and Lyubomir Vladimirov. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova in resignation will answer four questions from the MPs Ivan Ibrishimov two questions, Dimitar Bajraktarov and Georgi Kadiev. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov in resignation will answer three questions from the MPs Slavi Binev 2 questions, Velizar Enchev and two questions from the MPs Georgi Kuchukov and Kristian Vigenin. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva in resignation will answer four questions from the MPs Yavor Haytov, Iskren Vesselinov, Mihail Mikov and Katya Popova. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, in resignation will answer 11 questions from the MPs Manol Genov, Martin Ivanov, Ivan Penkov Ivanov, Georgi Gyokov and Manol Genov, Georgi Kadiev, three questions, Hasan Ademov, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, Manol Genov and Dora Yankova, and one question from the MPs Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, Claudia Georgieva, Evgeni Stoev and Milen Mihov. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov in resignation will answer a question from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva, in resignation, will answer five questions from the MPs Boyka Marinska, Dora Yankova, two questions, Dimitar Delchev, Ivan Stankov and Petar Kadiev. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov in resignation will answer four questions from the MPs Nikola Hadzhiyski, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov two questions, and Georgi Tarnovalyski, Manol Genov and Stefan Danailov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova in resignation of a question by the MP Manol Genov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova resigned two questions with written answer from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Dragomir Stoinev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - two questions from the MP Borislav Iglev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works in Retirement Lilyana Pavlova and to the Minister of Tourism in Retirement Nikolina Angelkova; - two questions from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov to the Minister of Justice in Retirement Ekaterina Zaharieva. Due to prior international commitments made in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Health will not participate in the resignation of Petar Moskov. Due to previous commitments in the parliamentary control meeting, will not participate: Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for Home Affairs in Retirement Rumyana Bachvarova; Minister of Economy in Retirement Bozidar Lukarski and Minister of Energy in Retirement Temenuzhka Petkova. Due to a business trip in the parliamentary control meeting, MPs Atanas Zafirov and Dzhevdet Chakarov will not participate. I am closing today's regular plenary session. Tomorrow, 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
