ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good day to you all! Please register. There is a quorum [[Ringing]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear colleagues, I look forward to Minister Bachvarova any moment with regard to the request from yesterday from BSP left Bulgaria for information on her part in view of the conflict on the Black Sea coast. On our program, we now continue with: PROJECTS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS AND DELEGATION OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. There are two groups of projects for solutions: one with importers Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs, and the other with importers Valeri Simeonov and Krasimir Karakachanov. Previously on One Message: On 9 June 2016, the General Draft of the Draft Bills for amendment and supplement to the Water Act adopted at the first vote on 8 June 2016. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. The project is prepared by the Committee on Environment and Water on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. Procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u2	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I suggest that you put to the vote the procedure for reducing the deadline for submitting proposals on this bill between first and second readings of three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u3	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 122 MPs: 103, against 7, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. By letter No 6540-02-52 of 7 June 2016 a draft of ? RESPONSIBILITY? on a change in the composition of the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Chavdar Slavchev Peychev as a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. 2. He elected Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev as a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. By letter No 6540-02-53 of 7 June 2016 a draft of ? RESPONSIBILITY? on a change in the composition of the Committee on Foreign Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Kancho Yanev Filipov as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. 2. He elected Rumen Marinov Yonchev as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. By letter No 6540-02-54 of 7 June 2016, a draft of ? RESPONSIBILITY? on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Rumen Marinov Yonchev as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. 2. He elected Kancho Yanev Filipov as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. By letter No 6540-02-55 of 7 June 2016, a draft of ? RESPONSIBILITY? For a change in the composition of the Committee on Education and Science The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Stefan Georgiev Kenov as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. 2. He elected Chavdar Slavchev Peychev as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. These are the proposals from Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs. I will also report the proposals with importers Mr. Valeri Simeonov and Krasimir Karakachanov to hold a joint debate on this item on the agenda. Here I explain that everywhere in the Official Journal the MPs will be promulgated with their three names, as the draft decisions are with only two. Project ? RESPONSIBILITY? on a change in the composition (s) of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly for Black Sea and Economic Cooperation The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Polina Karastoyanova as a member and head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly for Black Sea and Economic Cooperation. 2. He elected Petar Petrov as a member of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly for Black Sea and Economic Cooperation. ............................................... Importers are Valeri Simeonov and Krasimir Karakachanov. I am explaining from the fact that Mrs Karastoyanova left the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, automatically under our Rules, she, gaining the quality of a MP who does not participate in a parliamentary group, loses her position in permanent and temporary committees if she is a member. However, this does not concern participation and leadership in parliamentary delegations, which is why the decision as a project is correct so that there are no questions as to why we are not releasing it from the committees but only from the delegations. With an I.V. letter. No 6540-02-57 of 8 June 2016 received the Project of ? RESPONSIBILITY? on a change in the composition of the Energy Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Slavcho Atanasov as a member of the Energy Commission. By letter No 6540-02-58 of 8 June 2016 a draft of ? RESPONSIBILITY? amending the composition of the Committee on Health The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Dimitar Bajraktarov as a member of the Committee on Health. By letter No 6540-02-59 of 8 June 2016 a draft of ? RESPONSIBILITY? on changes in the composition and management of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Polina Karastoyanova as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. 2. He elected Slavcho Atanasov as member and Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media. The last Project for a solution is with an I.D. No 654-02-60 of 8 June 2016: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on changes in the composition and management of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Polina Karastoyanova as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. 2. He elected Dimitar Bajraktarov as member and Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Colleagues, the debate is open, but now we will give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior in connection with the hearing requested by Mr. Merdjanov in yesterday's plenary session on the latest events happening with... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u4	Information about the Eastern Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u5	In this way, you can say the information, not a hearing in the procedure that is visible according to our.... by asking a question. What do you want, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u6	Access procedure for the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u7	Here you go. Who are we gonna let into this room?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u8	Deputy Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u9	There's no way he's gonna be here. This is a personal hearing of the Minister. There are no bills, there is no demand for his presence here, and there is no possibility in this procedure that he will take charge. Mr. Iankov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u10	Madam President, Madam Minister, colleagues! Regarding the possibility of the Rules, I am making a procedural proposal for broadcasting on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio at the hearing of Minister Bachvarova. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u11	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 138 MPs: 49, against 61, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and part-time applause by BSP LB.]] Mr. Merdjanov, re-vote. [[Reply.]] We're in debate mode, then we'll move on. The Minister won't wait for us to fix our internal organizational problems.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Yesterday we were waiting for the minister, so I'm doing a re-voting procedure. A colleague from my parliamentary group made a joke that we were waiting for information about the events on the Eastern Front, and it is very strange whether it is really a Mahlen quarrel, a domestic incident or something different from what is happening on our Black Sea coast. I think it is important for all citizens and summerers and resortists and all who visit the country to be convinced of the opportunities of the Bulgarian state to ensure the order and calmness for tourists and Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u13	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 132 MPs: 42, against 67, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. Mrs. Bachvarova, please provide information about the tragic incident that took place this week on our Black Sea coast.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the opportunity and the invitation to present the information we have. It cannot be, unfortunately, presented in all the details here, because an investigation is ongoing. This case has caused a strong public interest, and my biggest regret is that interpretations on this case go beyond the limits of truth and morality many times. I understand the political line, I respect the opposition's right to have a different opinion, but the truth is above all else. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] The incident on June 8 with Dimitar Zhelyazkov-Eyes occurs after the man who lives on a family basis with Zhelyazkov's daughter entered into an argument with the manager of a restaurant in the resort complex Sunny Beach. [[Relations and laughter from BSP LB. Noise and lines by GERB.]] There's been an altercation, and they've been switched... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u15	Please be quiet in the hall! You want to hear from the Home Secretary. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB and GERB.]] Please be quiet in this room, how else will you hear the information?! [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB and GERB.]] Please order in the court! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u16	Yeah, why do you need me to answer that? Why do I have to answer if you know everything? In addition, the concepts you use must be defined. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u17	Go on, dear Minister. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u18	Can we have a debate from the hall? If you have to reschedule the form of my presence here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u19	There's a procedure, you know. Listen if you want. If you don't...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u20	I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u21	How do you hear it? I didn't say anything while you were talking. I respect the opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u22	Here you are, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u23	There's been an altercation, and there's been an exchange between the owner and the person in question, a relative of the Eyes. The police have not been alerted about this case. Around 8:50 p.m., about 30 people near Zhelyazkov gathered outside the restaurant on June 8th, with a small part of them entering the restaurant. You can see this on one-two cameras, they weren't in a group, they weren't wearing bulletproof vests, and they weren't armed. There was a disagreement with the people from the establishment manager's surroundings. They've been exchanged, and then they've been manufactured...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u24	Come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u25	Mr. Jablyanov, please! If you know anything more, there are stands outside. Let's hear what the minister has to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u26	Why do I have to give information when the person who asks has it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u27	If any of you know anything different, there is a corresponding way to say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u28	I suggest you contact the D.A. and present all the information you have, as well as the way you acquired them. That'll be helpful. Shots were fired in which Alexander Alexiev was killed and three were injured, including Dimitar Zhelyazkov. They're all participants in the conflict, and they're the ones who got in. No civilians were hurt. In the course of the work on the case, it was found that only Zhelyazkov was wearing a bulletproof vest. The call for the accident was received in the District Department at 21.00 pm. Surrounding events were held immediately in the area of the incident. On the ground are identified and detained persons, including the likely perpetrator of the murder. The work with the detainees continues by clarifying their empathy for the case. This job is over right now. The persons were detained immediately after the shooting in the area at the scene due to the immediate reaction of police officers, the majority of whom were posted to the Nessebar Police Department of the RDVR of Plovdiv. I can say that it is a precedent in recent years with regard to the shooting of known figures from the criminal world to detain the perpetrators immediately after the shooting and at the site of the shooting. During only part of the receipt of the alert, on-site inspections were carried out, witnesses were questioned, persons could be involved in the crime committed. More than 30 persons have been reported as a local and general search. There's only one missing right now. Everyone else has been captured. Two firearms were seized from the scene, one of which with the license plate, a gas gun and a knife. Multiple items relevant to the case have been found, including about 30 shell casings. In connection with the incident in five districts in the country that night there were police actions. I'll let you know the results in a moment. There has been a pre-trial proceeding under art. 116 of the penal code for the murder of Alexander Alexiev and the attempted murder of Dimitar Zhelyazkov. The district attorney's office in Burgas is pressing charges for the murder of Alexiev during the shooting in Sunny Beach. These are the facts I can make public. Everyone else is treating the investigation in some way and can influence it. I can summarize that the conflict occurred spontaneously. There is no evidence that it has been prepared in advance or that there is a longer period in which countries have prepared to participate in such a conflict. The fact is the extremely rapid response of the police. Yesterday on my visit, she specialized as an organization that took place last night. She'll go on. Several specialized operations were planned in Burgas and on the Black Sea coast. My task yesterday was to bring them all together in a joint operation with a common organisation and to conduct it immediately. I would like to remind you that on 3 and 4 June a group of about 16 individuals involved in criminal activities was detained in Burgas. Colleagues in Burgas have worked on it continuously, as well as consistently on the individuals involved in this conflict. The controls on June 3 and 4 are only close to 100. 82 cars and 210 persons are included in the disco. It's only a few days before this conflict. The results from this night only in five districts are: checked persons.. 3194, checked persons who are interested.. 238, checked drinking facilities... 236 only for one night (from 10 a.m. to six o'clock yesterday), checked internet clubs..22, checked halls for gambling games.. 140, checked and other commercial facilities... 113, checked................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The reports that exist show that the Regional Directorate is constantly working on these individuals and the criminogenic situation in Burgas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Thank you for responding to the invitation and giving this information to us MPs about the actions of the Ministry of Interior officials. We understand that this is not only on the case, but also on pre-planned events. Colleagues, we are moving on to the debates on your reported decision projects. Are there any speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u30	In the world and in my house...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u31	Mr. Zablyanov, to invite you to inform us if this information is from around the world and in our country so that you can tell us the current one. [[Reply of the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Colleagues, are there any speeches on the proposed draft solutions? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Project of a decision to release Chavdar Slavchev Peychev as a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. 2. He elected Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev as a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. We vote. Vote 128 MPs: 113, none against, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Project of a solution. The National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Kancho Yanev Filipov as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. 2. He elected Rumen Marinov Yonchev as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee. We vote. They voted 121 MPs: 116, none, abstention 5. The decision's been made. Project of a decision to change the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. The National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Rumen Marinov Yonchev as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. 2. He elected Kancho Yanev Filipov as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. We vote. They voted 130 MPs: 122, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Draft Decision I'm sorry. I'm 1. He released Stefan Georgiev Kenov as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. 2. He elected Chavdar Slavchev Peychev as a member of the Committee on Education and Science. We vote. They voted 126 MPs: 118, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We are voting on a draft decision according to which the National Assembly: I'm sorry. I'm 1. Releases Polina Karastoyanova as a member and head of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation. 2. He elected Petar Petrov as a member of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation. We vote. They voted 123 MPs: 114, against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. The next draft decision the National Assembly: I'm sorry. I'm He released Slavcho Atanasov as a member of the Energy Commission. We vote. They voted 123 MPs: 116, against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. The next draft decision the National Assembly: I'm sorry. I'm 1. He released Dimitar Bajraktarov as a member of the Committee on Health and Health. We vote, fellow Members. [[Noise, lines and shouts.]] Guys, don't get excited. Just because it won't be a member doesn't mean it won't be a member. [[Applause. Noise, shout and lines.]] Vote 126 MPs: 111 against 9, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Would you like a re-vote, fellow Members? [[Radio.]] To improve the score, re-vote? There won't be. The next draft decision the National Assembly: I'm sorry. I'm 1. Releases Polina Karastoyanova as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. 2. He elected Slavcho Atanasov as member and Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media. We vote. They voted 113 MPs: 104, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The last draft decision the National Assembly: I'm sorry. I'm 1. Releases Polina Karastoyanova as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. 2. He elected Dimitar Bajraktarov as member and Vice-President of the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee. We vote. Vote 116 MPs: 109, against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have exhausted the legislative part of our Programme, it is ready for ministers to take part in the control at an earlier hour before 11:00 p.m. I propose to your attention to adopt a draft decision according to which the parliamentary control for this Friday will start instead of at 11:00 p.m. at 10:00 p.m. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal for parliamentary control to begin at 10:00. [[Heckling]] Regular time is up to the end, just by one hour in excess is parliamentary control by 2:00, plus time, if there are declarations within these hours. We vote. They voted 115 MPs: for 113, there are no abstentions 2. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we interrupt until 10:00, then we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u32	Honourable Members, we are continuing with what is scheduled for today: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. At the beginning of a message. New questions for the period from 3 to 9 June 2016: 1. A request was received from the National Representative Willi Lilkov to Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Environment and Water, about the management system, including the collection and spending of product fees and licensing fees for recycling of out-of-use motor vehicles in Bulgaria. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 17 June 2016. 2. A question was received from the National Representative Angel Naydenov to Nikolay Nenchev, Minister of Defence, on the policy of the Ministry of Defence to increase motivation and interest in service in the Bulgarian army. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 17 June 2016. Written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a request from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Hristo Gazhev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to two questions from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on a question from the National Representative Ayhan Etem; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the MPs Willi Lilkov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior of a question by the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on two questions from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. We begin with the parliamentary control scheduled for today. The first question is to Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister... [[The National Representative Volen Siderov wants the floor.]] On behalf of a group? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, my speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack" is related to a fundamental event. This is the speech of Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev on 8 June, delivered in Strasbourg to the European Parliament. This speech, as you know, if not to remind you, was made in English. Of course, it could have been done in Spanish, it could have been done in Portuguese, but Mr. Plevneliev chose the English language, likely to show his knowledge of English. But someone should remind him that the Bulgarian language is official in the European Parliament and that, so to speak, putting it before the English-speaking, is, in my opinion, a request for a future service in an English-speaking state. But I ask myself: How long will we produce through the Presidential post employees of American foundations, services, special services and any other lobbying organizations? Because Rosen Plevneliev's statement sounded just like the speech of an employee in American administration, in US administration, I mean the United States of America, or as an employee of the US State Department, but not as a proud pro-European president, as he himself declared in this statement. I would like to focus on a few moments from Mr. Plevneliev's speech because I think he made a request for what should not be the Bulgarian President and in this regard I should address the voters in Bulgaria because it is high time that the Bulgarian voters take responsibility for what they are doing. Usually, criticism is directed at politicians. Yes, we politicians are targets, we politicians are responsible, we are the target of the worst media and public attacks when something is wrong. But I ask: Who put Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev in office? A million and 600,000 Bulgarian citizens. Are there any of them now who regret it? If there is, to come out to say it, I even urge them to make a move: I voted for Rosen, I'm sorry! You can do it in English: Sorry! With this movement to come out here, all sorts of associations, companies appear, they all protest, they go out to the center of Sofia. People like that show up and show that they've finally come to their senses and they won't make that mistake again. Because this man, standing by them in the highest position in the Bulgarian state, stands before the European Parliament and talks about that we do not want a new war, but, unfortunately, there is a war in Europe today and it is in Ukraine. And he says, "For us Crimea is Ukraine, Ukraine is in Europe." I do not know the historical knowledge of Mr. Plevneliev what they are, but Crimea was never in Ukraine, Ukraine We don't want there to be a war, but, unfortunately, there is a war. Yes, unfortunately, there was a war going on in Ukraine. Mr. Plevneliev helpfully jumps over the factology who set this war on fire. Very clearly, that question was answered by the US Deputy Secretary of State Mrs Newland himself. She publicly admitted that the U.S. poured 5 billion in there. The dollar. Another thing she said because Mr. Plevneliev spoke in this speech about the fact that there are crises today and one of these crises is that Russia does not support in principle the international order of how it has been established that it is not clear that it is to stabilise the European Union. Such a statement from the mouth of a Head of State sounds not only as something that cannot be proved, but is something very dangerous, as one Head of State practically introduces hostile phraseology, a language of hate in his speech, to another State and to a very serious state. However, I would remind Mr. Plevneliev who actually destabilized the European Union. The same Mrs. Newland, about which he did not speak in his speech, which to the whole world said very clearly: "Fuck the EU" that is to say, "Fuck the European Union." So, who should stabilize the EU, Mr. Plevneliev, Russia or the United States? I leave the answer for the viewers and the people who are interested in our citizens who can think. I note something else that is very dangerous in Mr. Plevneliev's speech. This is his request that he supports the Transatlantic Agreement. He says so: "Transatlantic relations are strategically important in view of the growing challenges to our liberal democratic order. " - What does that mean? The Transatlantic Agreement, unfortunately, is a very rarely discussed topic in Bulgarian society, media space and here in the National Assembly, but it should be the opposite, because this Agreement carries great dangers not only for national countries in Europe, which will simply be erased as authority and opportunities, to preserve their economic interests, but for the whole of Europe as a continent. Europe will actually squat before US pressure, will be flooded with GMOs, which in the US are just waiting for this huge market and transnational corporations will have more power than any country, even the largest in Europe. All of this is quite schematic, but it could be much more discussed about the dangers of the Transatlantic Agreement. This is precisely the danger the Bulgarian President goes to defend in the European Parliament. There are also moments in Mr. Plevneliev's speech when he attacks nationalism and patriotism. Here I will not argue with him, as my views are long known, I have defended them with words, with deeds, with actions, with political moves and with everything possible, in my publicist and my entire biography. As he quoted in his speech Charles de Gaulle, who defended patriotism, but according to him was against nationalism, there is no difference between these concepts, but let's say it can be found by the more critical eye. I would like to remind Mr. Plevneliev that Charles de Gaulle left, that is, France left the NATO military political union in 1966. Just de Gaulle said: "We will not be in NATO. Yeah, that's patriotism, and I agree with that. Mr. Plevneliev does the opposite. He invites more, wants more NATO in our country, wants more American technology, wants us to become more and more the front country we are now, again in recognition of the US State Department. Mr. Plevneliev said that we do not want war, and at the same time he is doing everything he can here from our territory to give away weapons. I think everyone is already familiar with the fact that the Russian President said very clearly to Romania and Poland that they are already under target: "When you point a gun at someone, it is logical to expect them to point theirs at you. Rosen Plevneliev's policy has made sure that in Bulgaria we are now the target of a huge, very strong military state. If this is a fight for peace, I don't know what the opposite is. The whole management of Rosen Plevneliev was placed on the wrong position, was the behaviour of a person who, as I said, earned during his term of office in an American institution. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I turn again to all Bulgarian citizens, let us set our attitude correctly in these presidential elections and not allow any more of this position to stand a man who is there so that he can work in the Bilderbergs or in any other American institution or supranational semi-secret box. Let at this post, this time a Bulgarian patriot who will be able to say no when the Bulgarian interests are threatened, who will be able to protect projects when they are useful to Bulgaria, who will be able to protect us from the involvement of Bulgaria in war. We're in danger of that right now. This time Bulgarian citizens should choose such a president..... otherwise it can be late. For the next presidential elections Bulgaria may not exist. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the AG to the attack.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. The first question is to Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for Home Affairs, she will answer a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov concerning unoccupied figures from the State of the Ministry of Interior. Please, Mr. Yankov, ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Bachvarova, colleagues! According to official information from the Ministry of Interior, the state of the Ministry of Interior as of the end of 2015 was 49 752, employed 45 349, 4400 unoccupied by the State of the Ministry of Interior. My question has been challenged in connection with a statement by the Minister of Interior, after a meeting with the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria, what the media reflected is that measures to combat domestic crime did not work. In view of the recent events and in the context of the possibility of reaction, prevention, prevention and organized criminal groups, the question is clear: are there any unaccounted for figures in the State of the Ministry of Interior to date and what are the reasons why the composition of the various departments of the Ministry is not completed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Madam Vice-President and Minister of the Interior, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u37	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Yankov! Slightly different are the last numbers. For 50 070 state figures in the Ministry of Interior, the allocated state numbers in the structures are currently 49 782, while the vacant seats are 6518. In the last six years, there has been a trend of growth of the employees left over from those appointed. With the highest number of terminations, 2013 was, compared to the other years, to 4757 people and the appointments were 2082. There was not yet the requirement for a contest, with the state number being changed three times by a decree of the Council of Ministers and 55 120 state numbers falling to 54 913. Two thousand and fourteenth is the year in which the difference between the employees left and employed is most significant in favour of the unoccupied state, then 4428 was, and only 981 people were appointed. Within the framework of these 4428 people, 1181 were released at the initiative of the appointing authority, i.e. the Minister released them all in the first half of 2014, before changing the Law, including in art. 226. At the beginning of 2015, 1756 units were made redundant. Because I want to say something important, I'm skipping this statistic that's public and it's never been hidden. The measures we're taking right now. The problem is that the Ministry of Interior cannot respond to the rate at which the state numbers are developing, adequately fill in the missing figures. The conditions for admission to the Ministry of Interior are strict. I welcome them, but the capacity to conduct all possible competitions and to conduct the training of the approved employees requires a one-year delay and there are limits. Improving coordination and interaction between structures in planning and announcing competitions in order to accelerate competition procedures and conduct initial professional training. It's the narrowest place in the whole process. The Ministry of Interior Academy is currently preparing a reduction in the period for initial vocational training in international standards for police officers of junior executive and executive positions from nine to six months, with the exception of the training at the Directorate General of Border Police. We also provide for regulatory changes that will allow for recognition within a certain period of the positive results of the physical fitness study and psychological study when participating in another competition for appointment of the same type and functional direction, appointment of candidates from the reserve of a competition held at other holiday posts of the same type and functional direction of activity. Currently we have 52 competition procedures for 543 holiday posts under art. 142, at the Directorate General's Office of the Ministry of Education 157 holiday junior executive posts, orders for the appointment of the staff of 128 employees, of them 126 interns. In the Directorate-General for Fire Safety and for the Protection of the Population and 27 competitions for 250 holiday posts. At the moment, with my order, a Board of Education is being established, which will be attended by representatives of our Academy of the Ministry of Interior and representatives of higher education institutions, who turned out to be 15 who are preparing staff. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this direction, we want to align the training programmes, to introduce as an additional requirement the training for special police powers, so that we can compensate for this deficit over the next one or two years. This is one of the difficulties we face in combating domestic crime. I never said we failed. It's a media interpretation. I have said that the phenomenon has such deep social roots that in order to deal with it, we also need to engage the efforts of other institutions and the local authorities and all the state institutions that are related to education, social and who else. This is a task which is not explicitly within the authority of the Ministry of Interior, but I, as a minister, am committed to it. This includes the plan to combat domestic crime, so that we can, for example, people who relapse into such crimes and go free, along with the Social Ministry, create another opportunity for them to return to steal. This is the responsibility of the state as a whole. It is a problem that you are putting on the subject, but I can assure everyone that we are working most actively on this problem right now. I hope it will also help us to be able to appoint people who already have police powers to participate as supporters in other activities and mainly for security.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u38	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Dear Mr. Yankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u39	Thank you. Madam Minister, the Ministry of Interior has a resource, but the effectiveness of the Ministry of Interior is not at a satisfactory level, not at the expected level of citizens because of the way this resource is managed. It's not the legislation that's the problem. The problem is how the work of the Ministry of Interior is managed. And this is only a part, a drop of the problem that you as political leadership, and with the non-constant appointments to professional leadership, has been created. Four thousand and four hundred unoccupied in the Ministry of Interior and you explain to the Bulgarian citizens that the Ministry of Interior does not have the capacity to provide police presence of specialized police forces to respect this contingent on domestic crime! Now with the case in Sunny Beach it became clear that you are using information from the participants themselves, among whom they committed a crime to explain the motives for this crime! At least that's what Secretary General Georgi Kostov did. That's ridiculous! According to statistics coming out of the Ministry of Interior, one number of people employed in the Ministry of Interior is responsible for 159 Bulgarian citizens. It is not small, but the budget costs for solving a crime are BGN 4203, according to data for 2015. The problem with the effectiveness of the Ministry of Interior is the capacity of your professional and political leadership. You have advisors who I have personally proven to receive that the cost for them is half a million a year. Is that what they advise you to do?! To abdicate from work in terms of the biggest scourge of domestic crime! Now to create fear in Bulgarian citizens that you cannot cope with organized criminal groups. Two thousand sixty-six specialized shares in 2015! Now you explain to the National Assembly for emergency specialized shares within 24 hours. And what's the score?! What Bulgarian citizens see, what the criminal contingent sees, is that the Ministry of Interior is not doing well. And I am personally very worried that such cases as accidents and as brutal self-roaring in Sunny Beach are coming. Should there be four, five or fifty in Bulgarian resorts where special measures should be taken, because tourists from countries with special regime regarding threat also rest there?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Shall I remind you of the Burgas bombing?! Or now we'll rely on public stocks to divert attention. Deal with the problems you have in the security sector! I urge you to consider your overall concept and the changes to the Ministry of Interior Act that you are proposing. It disinfects the system, disinfects the officers! Because if you don't rethink them, you personally, the Prime Minister will only find and count corpses! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u40	You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u41	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Yankov and I will never be in the same position on these matters! This became clear from his previous speech here in the Chamber. Responsible behavior towards problems in the Ministry of Interior requires that we have historical memory. They've never been this low on crime rates, not even homicide levels. I can give you a reference. If from the entire list I did this work yesterday, you can see the 2005 murders, which have not been revealed at all, how many they were and where they were, I think your enthusiasm for holding such speeches will be very low. With regard to my advisors, I have two or three advisors in the Ministry of Interior. The reference you received is for my advisors as Deputy Prime Minister and all the portfolios I'm responsible for. I'm practically performing several functions. [[Reply of MP Krasimir Yankov.]] It's an official reference. You've written about all the advisors, but I'm telling you, I have two offices and I do a lot of work outside the Ministry of Interior. These are the counselors. If we are talking about a price, you can see in 2008 how many advisors were, how they received money, and what amounts they received then. The historical memory, Mr. Yankov! Historical memory is your party's problem, obviously you are a big problem too.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u42	Don't look back, look forward!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u43	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Let us also thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions to Zornitsa Rusinova, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The first question is from the MP Vili Lilkov on the distribution of 8.1 million. lv. From the Employment Agency of Funds under the scheme "Trainings and employment" "only one Visionary company has received approval for three jobs. Here you are, dear Mr. Lilkov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question was asked exactly two months ago. It refers to the Programme of Trainings and Employment and in exactly the way in which these 8.1 million are allocated. lv. between the different regions of the country. In determining by the Agency for Employment of Companies and the distribution of 8.1 million. lv. under the scheme "Trainings and employment" (only one Visionary company has received approval for the modest 3 jobs. At the same time, companies that work in other regions of the country have received permissions or access to hundreds of jobs. Only 3 jobs for such a region where unemployment is crushing, raising doubts and ambiguity about how it happened that in some regions hundreds of jobs are received and approved and in other places they reach three. In relation to the above, I ask you the following questions: 1. On what principle are 8,1 million distributed. lv. under the scheme "Trainings and employment" and why for the city. Vidin only one company has received support for three jobs? 2. Why is the adoption of documents in Vidin suspended on the second day of the launch of the Program? That's so weird! You can't do that for $8.1 million. distribution of funds, the program to work only two days!? 3. How many companies and jobs from Northwestern Bulgaria have received support and what value? And the question is, will you take action to achieve a fair allocation of funds by districts and regions, taking into account the economic situation of the area or region concerned? I stress that the question was asked about 2 months ago, there have probably been some changes during this time, but still the answers to my questions I would like to receive now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u45	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer. If I am not mistaken, this is your first participation in parliamentary control, so I would like to remind you that you have three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u46	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Lilkov, I really appreciate the clarification that this is a matter of two months ago, as the situation at the moment is quite different. The programme aims to help long-term unemployed people, people over 54 years of age, people with disabilities and people who are over 12 months of age, registered at the labour offices, to be integrated into the labour market. Initially, the program was released with a resource of 8 million. Unfortunately, in a very short period we received applications that exceed 15 times the budget of the Programme, originally planned under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and there was no way to ensure that the resource will be distributed fairly among all employers so that we can help the unemployed in Bulgaria have good integration in the labour market. A new resource of this Programme has been determined as we see that there is a great expectation of it from the business and from the long-term unemployed who are interested in finding their realization. 30 million are allocated on the basis of unemployment rates in each region, on the basis of applied jobs and on the basis of certain sectors related to processing, with sectors important for the economic development of the region, so for each area there is a separate quota of resources. The very distribution of employers' applications is prioritized and ranked by the district employment committees. Why is this done? Because they are members of employers, trade unions, municipality, district governor and they are the best acquainted with the needs of the region and can assess the priorities that we need to meet in order to be closest to the people. At present we have received just over 6000 requests for a total of 19,000 places across the country. By 16 June, regional employment committees are meeting and they will assess how to prioritize employers who will receive up to 6 jobs on the basis of whether they will pay higher wages than what we under the European Social Fund assume as minimum wage insurance thresholds, on the basis of whether they will hold longer employees in the enterprises in which they will be employed and how much the economic activity of the enterprise itself is a priority for the development region where the application is submitted. I believe that this is also a guarantee of a clearer allocation of the resource. But here it is important to mention that we will make a closer relationship between business and the unemployed person so that it is well integrated into the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u47	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Lilkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u48	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Your answer really pleases me, that is, justice will be done. On June 16th, or after that, we will follow the result of 30 million compared to BGN 8 million. is a very good number. However, you did not answer my questions: Why did this happen? Was the system manipulated that registered the companies? I wonder if the Ministry's internal research has shown... And has such a study ever taken place, why it came to this situation, how the next day, after the launch of the program, the acceptance of applications, for example, from the city of Vidin, has been suspended? Why has a Varna company on the sea, which is very relevant now, especially those companies that are now going out in the season, received 144 jobs that have been approved in one day, and only 3 jobs are approved for Vidin for the same day? I expect an answer to these questions: has the system been manipulated that is working internally on this programme? You're required to conduct a study on how this came about. Otherwise, what you said to me right now, I'm completely satisfied. We'll follow up on the outcome, and if there's anything we don't like, I promise you, Mrs. Rusinova, I'll ask you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u49	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Madam Minister, you have an opportunity for a duplicate, if you like. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Lilkov, of course, that the issue of transparency in the absorption of European funds is key to us. Of course, an analysis has been carried out and an examination of what are the reasons to come to this situation. Our analysis has shown that much of the subsidised employment measures are limited. We believe that they are expensive, ineffective and because it has brought so much interest to employers, we have also set the conditions to seek additional financial resources and co-financing from employers. With regard to the system, an external inspection has been carried out, which can clearly tell us that there is no problem in the system itself. The system itself cannot from all entry points from several hundred labor offices simultaneously process requests. This has also been improved in terms of system organisation at the moment. There is an internal inspection that with colleagues from the Afkos Directorate in the Ministry of Interior is carried out in respect of all received signals for specific companies and for specific cases. If necessary, we can provide information.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u51	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to Minister Rusinova is the MP Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov on the failure of a contract between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Federation for Social Security and, more precisely, the non-payment of Russian pensions to the Bulgarian citizens who worked in Comi-ASSR. Mr. Bayraktarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 3 December 1967 between the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of Bulgaria was signed an Agreement for the organization of joint logging in Comi, ASSR. According to the same Bulgaria is obliged to provide labour and administrative management staff and technical staff for construction, logging and maintenance of the created capacities and funds. Only until 1985 via Comi, ASSR more than 200,000 Bulgarian citizens pass to work. Thanks to their hard work in the Taiga of the region of Ugor, four cities were built: Usogorsk, Blagoevo, Intercechensk and Gorni Mesen. The Bulgarian builders were built over 15 thousand. km of forest roads in the taiga, as well as over 1000 km of first-class road network. Bulgarian workers also build over 300 thousand. kv. m residential area for nearly 50 thousand. our citizens and Soviet citizens; several districts, six general schools, seven kindergartens, two hospitals, numerous health centers and catering establishments. For maintenance and preservation of the equipment are built several repair plants and huge amount of warm garages. Thus, on the territory of Comi, the ASSR is built a powerful logging complex, which to date would cost several billion euros. I stress that, according to the signed Agreement for their business, Bulgarian enterprises are exempt from taxes and charges such as all built machines, equipment, technology lines, highways, residential buildings, factories and so on, remain in favor of the Soviet State, whose successor today is the Russian Federation. Since 20 March 2010, the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Social Security Federation has been in force, according to which hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens who worked in Comi and other former Soviet republics are entitled to receive their Russian pensions. Dear Minister, as a competent authority under the Treaty mentioned above, please answer why have the thousands of Bulgarian citizens not received their Russian pensions due for the sixth year? How and in what way will you protect their interests from the moment you are already Minister of Labour and Social Policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u53	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Madam Minister, please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Bayraktarov! An extremely important and extremely flexible question. We should certainly take into account the contributions of the workmen in Comi Bulgarians. From 1960 to 1 January 2005 the Agreement between the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the Union of Soviet Socialist Social Security Republics, which was denounced by law, was in force. By virtue of art. 10, para. 2 of this Agreement the social security of workers in undertakings of one country who are sent to temporary work in the territory of the other country was carried out under the legislation of that country where the management bodies of the undertaking are located. Most of the persons sent to Comi worked in a Bulgarian enterprise "Training and construction." On this basis until 31 December 2004, the Bulgarian citizens sent to work in Russia during the operation of the already denounced Agreement were fully subject to the Bulgarian legislation, i.e. these persons were provided only in Bulgaria. This fact is also confirmed by letters and decisions of the Pension Fund of the Russian Federation stating that no contributions to Russian legislation have been imported for the period of work on Comi's territory in today's Russia for these persons. In this sense are the provisions of the Bulgarian legislation which regulate the provision of Bulgarians working abroad. In accordance with art. 21 and 23 of the Ordinance on the conditions under which Bulgarian citizens can be sent to work abroad, since 1975 the monthly salary in leva in the People's Republic of Bulgaria is paid by the office, business or other organisation where the person sent abroad was at work before his departure, at the expense of the sending organisation, which recovers the sums paid by them. These persons are subject to state social security insurance under the current legal provisions of the Republic of Bulgaria. The regulation of these relations is similar after 1992, when the provisions of the Regulation on labor and social security relations of Bulgarian citizens are applied, sent abroad by Bulgarian employers and subsequently the Regulation on social security for self-employed persons, Bulgarian citizens to work abroad and seafarers. On the basis of the above, the time during which Bulgarian workers were sent to Comi is not respected for Russian insurance service and for this time Russian pension can not be granted, but it is respected in the insurance service under Bulgarian law and taken into account in determining the right and the amount of Bulgarian pensions of the persons. Since 20 March 2010, in bilateral relations between Bulgaria and the Russian Federation, the Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Russian Social Security Federation has already been applied. It provides for mutual respect for periods of insurance acquired under the legislation of both Parties, which shall be aggregated for the assessment of the right to compensation for species covered by the material scope, such as a retirement pension or age. The new treaty does not provide and does not allow for the respect of Russian insurance internship for persons who have been provided only under Bulgarian law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u55	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You'll have an opportunity for a doppelganger, if you like. Mr. Bayraktarov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I was hoping that you would be more responsible for this extremely important and serious matter. First, I would like to inform you that the information provided to you, which you provide to the Bulgarian citizens and the MPs, is extremely false! It's extraordinary. If you had come to know the Social Security Treaty, you would understand that there it is written that the right to a pension is granted to the citizens who have implemented a service experience. Here's an official document I'll give you, dear Minister. [[Shows document.]] Such official documents we have all citizens who have worked in Comi. It's a sample of payroll. According to this document and all the decrees described to it and published in the Official Journal of the European Union, this Bulgarian citizen received his remuneration from the Russian GMP. Therefore, the State-owned Union of Wood and Construction is only the undertaking which sends.I did not accidentally make a serious preface to my question in order to inform you, and there was a commitment to recruit a workforce and engineering and technical staff, and hence the remuneration and work were carried out in Russian enterprises, respectively the Gorska Industrial Enterprise of Mediurechensk, the Forest Industrial Enterprise of Blagovoevo and so on, and the salaries and wages were paid in rubles, which were transferred through the former Bulgarian Foreign Commercial Bank of Bulgaria. A fact which can be established at any time. From there on, every citizen under the signed Treaty, who has worked for more than two years, has the right to a Russian pension. It is no accident that I stressed and reiterated that Bulgarian enterprises were exempt from paying taxes and fees. The notions of an insurance service and a contribution in those years in the Soviet Union did not exist, as there were paid the so-called insurance fees. The Bulgarian citizen, the Bulgarian worker and the Bulgarian state have paid more than enough with the cost of everything built, which costs several billion euros to date. Here's this official document. Ask yourself why these documents are not kept in the Bulgarian archives, and under the Bulgarian law all paying payrolls must be kept for no less than 50 years?! Here you go. [[Passing documents to Minister Rusinova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u57	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Mrs. Minister, you have the opportunity for a dot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bayraktarov, thank you for the document you gave me. The answer that I have formulated to you is not based solely on individual workers' slips, but on all the documentation that is stored in all the state institutions responsible for this matter. There is no way as a magician for three weeks to be a minister and solve problems that have been layered from 20 years ago. We are working fully with the legal base, which has been up to date, i.e. the contract between the Bulgarian state and the Soviet Union, the way in which both remuneration and pension insurance are regulated. I'll check the paperwork one more time, but I assure you, the authenticity of the legal grounds presented is clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u59	Thank you, Madam Secretary. There is a question from the MP Mihail Raykov Mikov concerning measures in the field of social policy related to severe demographic processes. Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, at the end of July last year, parliament unanimously adopted a decision requiring the government to propose short-term and medium-term measures to combat the demographic crisis. In fact, Bulgaria is in a demographic disaster. This is clear to all Bulgarian citizens, but they do not see specific short-term measures by the government, involvement of financial resources to provide these measures to the Social Ministry. A resource to give another perspective for demographic development and situation in the country. To date, the birth rate difference in the register of the Ministry of Health: this year 1335 children were born less than last year and 2573 less than pό last year. There are 2501 children born less than 2014 compared with 2015. The deceased, according to statistics, were 110 thousand. Or if about 62-63-64 thousand children are born annually, 110 thousand Bulgarians die. Such a trend clearly outlines the size of the catastrophe in which Bulgaria is located. Migration within the European Union strengthens this process. Clearly, measures are needed. It is clear that these measures must, first of all, come from the Social Ministry. I hear that this year's aid for first-graders is still BGN 250, and II, III, IV, V class is like these students don't go to school. These are children from families of working poor, from families of unemployed. And that kills Bulgaria! Do you now have, at the beginning of the budgetary procedure, any vision of measures of the Social Ministry in the social sphere that can at least hold this process a little bit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u61	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer. We're in the asking procedure. I remind you that you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u62	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Mikov, the topic of demography is extremely important and extremely painful, but I would not say that we should look at it so badly, but to unite all efforts of both the state and local authorities and civil society, including parliament, to solve the demographic problems of Bulgaria. If demography were mathematics and just an additional resource that we can separate, then the whole of Europe would not have such a negative demographic trend and in no way would Western European countries that are rich enough and have a much more serious budget for redistribution to individual policies have the same problem. With regard to demographics, there are several measures that are in our Ministry's plan and concern joint work with all institutions, not only the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. They cover five strategic priorities: - promotion of birth rates by creating an environment favorable for raising and raising children; - improvement of reproductive health; - improving the general health of the population; - reduction of general, premature, infant and maternal mortality; - developing adequate migration and immigration policy; - decrease the number of emigrating young people in reproductive age; - the adoption of a complex cross-sectoral approach to active and productive life of the elderly in good health; - adaptation of social systems to demographic changes - ageing population, labour market, pension system, social assistance and care, health, education and culture, development of intergenerational solidarity, raising education level, qualification, skills and skills of the population of all age groups; - creating conditions for equal opportunities for full social and productive lives of all; - limiting the disproportions in the territorial distribution of the population; - depopulation of some regions. In other words, every topic of all the policies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has to do with demographic policy. Several data regarding the financial resource. There are several programmes which are in aid and contribute to demographic policy: - in the first place, the program "Helping families with children" under the Family Aid Act for children with a budget of just over 568 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the programme for providing funds under the Child Protection Act with a budget of just over 17 000 600; - the provision of maternity benefit under the Social Security Code of 453 million. lv. Thanks to Europe's solidarity, several schemes under the Human Resources Development Operational Programme contribute to demographic policy. In the first place is the scheme "Active inclusion" which has a resource of 6 000 600 and aims only to promote local level "in partnership between non-governmental organizations, municipalities, training organisations, other civil society structures to have active involvement of inactive persons and to help the most vulnerable part of the people who could participate in the labour market, measures for supported employment. Next, the schemes aimed at employers to improve working conditions in businesses, because these schemes allow young families to be held in businesses. There we will give priority to projects that finance measures to reconcile personal and family life; measures related to improving the climate in businesses; places for raising children and recreational places, because this is one of the prerequisites for having a higher birth rate, to stimulate young families for higher birth rates. Provision of services in the home through vouchers, a scheme that will encourage and enable the combination of family and private life. Last but not least, the topic that we are about to start in the coming days as a reform is the topic of children. Until now, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has taken care of and the focus has been on children in the most vulnerable position of the children at risk. From now on, as a minister, I believe that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy should view the issue of children as a horizontal topic to care for all children, not just those who are at risk and in a vulnerable situation. To combine our efforts at cross-sector level, efforts with local authorities, with civil society to have better protection and better treatment for children in Bulgaria because they are the key to Bulgaria's demographic problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u63	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Mikov, come in for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, listening to you and imagining what the Bulgarian citizens of this political rhesiology understand, as if we were at a seminar well paid with European funds to promote how concerned we are about social policy. But people ask themselves simple questions, and in the supplementary two questions, I'll ask them to you. I didn't hear any answer to my question: what specific measures? To hear the people. And I ask you: do you foresee this year an increase in childbirth and child rearing aid? How much? Is there an increase in aid for first graders? In fact, you answered that question a few days ago, saying that they would remain the same. Do you not think that it is necessary, as a government policy, to introduce aid to students from II, III, IV, V, at least up to the VII grade? Do you understand what a paradox is? Children decrease, birth rate decreases. The state saves on the number of children! He's saving up! If birth rates were growing, the cost of these policies would naturally be greater. Perhaps then you would have reduced the amount of payments. At the same time, the justification for the Social Ministry's budget as a residual figure leads to the formation of all policies. That's how the state dies! Business complains all the time that he didn't have any workers. And there will be no more workers at these levels of labor pay in Bulgaria! Moreover, do not count on them to help you. We saw the social engagement of the business. In recent years, we've seen her, and she's most clearly visible on Terminal 2. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] These are my two specific questions. That's what people want to hear. Otherwise, programs, seminars, concerns and other phraseology will not stop people from fleeing Bulgaria, because it is the largest stepmother to its citizens within the European Union. All countries have demographic problems, but see in other countries what social measures are. Even in neighbouring Romania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u65	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Madam Minister, please come in and answer the additional questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the supplementary questions. It's good when we're dealing with phraseology, to talk about demographic policy and specific things. The fact is that in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy there is an increase for social services by 10 million this year and we are predicting another 11 million for next year. Why is it so important to have an increased budget for social services and reform social services? Because they are the key, not the direct handout of aid to people. That would in no way solve the individual problem. For kids to be okay, they have to have working parents. The measures that we specifically take with employers are that working parents have higher incomes than work and not social benefits. This is the way and this is the way for children to be raised better, to have better domestic security and to have stronger motivation to be realized in Bulgaria, based on their own knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u67	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Mikov, you have the opportunity to express your attitude to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u68	I did not actually get an answer will there be any adjustments in these payments, so I will express that for me personally and for Bulgarian citizens it is clear that the Bulgarian state is the worst stepmother in Europe to its children. It is clear that from these conversations with employers last year you also took those 410 BGN. of the 10 per cent deferred tax of that 250 thousand. people working on a minimum wage. It's an obvious result. About £10. by their children! Otherwise, "care," seminars, interviews, media, PR. That's the way it is! This will continue to deepen the demographic crisis. And from your answer, or, in fact, from avoiding the answers to specific questions, it is clear that the government will continue to make it, as it has so far, actively contribute to the destruction of the Bulgarian people, to deepen the demographic catastrophe. And any excuses, comparisons, that there is a demographic problem in Europe... There is, but young Bulgarians solve Europe's demographic problem because the Bulgarian government does not solve their problems. And in the open labour market they go to solve the demographic problem there, in the countries where the pay is higher, and where the aid for a child is born exceeds many times what the Bulgarian state gives. Thus we will gradually depopulate ourselves and take our place in a deserted territory within the European Union, and the government will continue to hold seminars and write strategies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u69	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Next, a question from the MP Svetla Marinova Bachvarova about providing food packages for poor people under the operational programme. Mrs. Bachvarova, please come in and represent your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, my question is related to the implementation of the operational programme, which enables food packages to be provided for the poor. The second programming period in which we implement this programme is assigned to the Agency for Social Assistance to ensure the implementation of the programme and the absorption of the funds. The conclusion that can be done so far is that the implementation of the program is a complete failure. The reasons you will say them, but the facts are as follows: 2014 the program does not start at all; 2015 the reckoning is tragic because out of 21 products that were to be delivered respectively are delivered 6 or 7, but 14 are not delivered, 12 are yet to you to negotiate, for the simple reason that the classification, which was made, has been challenged accordingly, and before you is the heavy task to compensate respectively for a delay by one year for the delivery of these products. In any case, about 4.4 million were used out of a 19 million budget. In 2016, the programme started relatively early with a huge budget of 48 million, but again, as far as we can see, there are various fluctuations related to what are the selection criteria, respectively what are the products that will be included. The concern is that again you may have difficulty. My question to you is about what steps the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will take to secure food packages for 2015, if possible in their full size for the year. Have the errors made during the announcement of the contract and 2016 been reported, what is different, respectively what products will be included, the deadlines for their absorption? Do you undertake to make this happen within the year in order to help the socially weak in 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs. Bachvarova! Thank you very much for the question. Just to make it clear that this is not the second programming period for this programme, but is the first programming period for this programme, because this programme, thanks to the initiative of the European Commission, is financed by the European Social Fund for the first time for the period 2014 - 2020. This is why the managing authority is located in the Agency for Social Assistance and there is a clear link between the social assistance policy and the possibility of this programme, which gives not only food packages, but also provides a warm lunch for hundreds of people in the territory of all municipalities of the Republic of Bulgaria. Yes, the operational programme started with some delay in November 2015, but it is still one of the first programs to start in Bulgaria under the European Social Fund and is one of the first five programmes at European Union level that started. I would say that the level of absorption and management of this programme is highly appreciated by the European Commission. After the entry into force of the decision regarding the first public procurement for food supply, I stress that this programme is not only for the supply of food, but provides a warm lunch in more than 200 municipalities in Bulgaria for socially vulnerable people, so that they are supported not only with products of primary need but also with the possibility, especially in the winter months, to be taken care of. The reason we focus on this approach is to enable local authorities to combine this programme with the activities of social patronages, home patronages and all local activities related to improving social policy. At the beginning of 2016, contracts were concluded for the delivery of seven foodstuffs of flour, spaghetti, compote, jam, lentils, locum and nectar. The selected contractors for the supply of oil and sugar have refused to enter into a contract. This is the reason why the goods and services are not delivered. I believe that, to a large extent, after the entry into force of the new Public Procurement Act, problems which concern the award of such a complex type of procurement and procurement will be overcome. The amount of the contracts concluded so far and the funds used is around 7 million. lv. In addition, 19 food products are planned to be purchased for 2016, which are fully consistent with the estimated values in 19 positions of flour, rice, pasta, mashed potatoes, powder, chutney, tomato puree, compote, jam, i.e. a very wide range of first-need food products. The estimated value of the contract is just over 40 million. lv. The evaluation committee is currently in operation. We have a lot of offers on each of the separate positions. The procedure is extremely transparent and well organized. You know that any opening of offers is also public to the media, so I do not believe that we have a delay or a problem with this Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u73	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, after you have educated me that for the first time we have an operational programme, however, in the first programming period of the State Fund, the same programme was carried out not as an operational programme and I must say that, in my humble opinion, it was more successful in terms of the fact that food products were provided within at least the year. We're now providing for 2015. These are products that cannot compensate for the delay. Why was the contract announced before the new Public Procurement Act entered, if you say everything will be transparent? Why did you set requirements for participation in the order not under the new Law, but the old one? That's the first question. The second position. Even at the slightest glance, I can tell you that, for example, a position that is worth 5 million. lv. However, canned meat and fish cans, note that meat cans are made of beef, can only win one company. And she knows who she is under the conditions they're putting in. And that's why when you say you're going to execute this contract within the year, trust me, with the parameters so set, that you have 5 million and you're going to chase the amount, it's not going to happen. You have not set the most important parameter, i.e. what is the price at least, which should be minimal. You are chasing the amount, and that is why, as with the first procurement, it is obtained that companies bid large quantities and now that the real market situation sees what it is, they give up oil and sugar because they cannot fulfil them. Another point is that 48 million went into the commercial network mainly as oil and sugar. I can imagine what it is about in small and small retail outlets. If you answer these questions and note that there is a problem with this procurement not for the first year, it seems to me that you can congratulate yourself at the end of the year with success, which I really wish you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u75	Thank you. Mrs. Minister, the doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Bachvarova, really few further details. The reason why public procurement is announced at the beginning of the year is the way European funds are planned. The fact that it was not announced under the new Public Procurement Act is because it would delay the launch of the contract by another three months and therefore the delivery. Betting at a minimum price or minimum value of certain products would distort Bulgaria's market economy extremely, as it is about large volumes and would strongly suggest that certain suppliers are rather certain, so I believe only the way in which the contract is announced, with the lowest price on the basis of quantities and the possibility for consortiums of companies to participate, that it guarantees the clearest and transparent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u77	Thank you, Madam Secretary. And the last question to Minister Rusinova is from the MP Petar Vladislavov Slavov on successful practices for Roma integration and opportunities for transfer of the experience of the municipality of Kavarna 2003 at national level. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, dear Minister! My question really concerns the successful practices for Roma integration and the opportunities for transferring the experience of the municipality of Kavarna 2003 to the national level. Dear Minister, the difficulties with Roma integration are one of the major problems that remain unresolved in Bulgaria. Over the years tens and hundreds of millions of levs have been spent at national and regional level for integration programmes, for specific investment and public events and so on, but the problem remains unresolved. Moreover, the lack of solutions leads to a lasting social exclusion of these compact masses from people to unemployment, to getovization, to an increase in domestic crime and to inevitable tensions between these ghettoized communities and the rest of the country's citizens. The problem is characteristic not only for Bulgaria, but also for countries of the European Union with Roma communities. In recent years, however, there are also examples of good practices for integration and inclusion of Roma communities in the educational and production process, both at European and national level. Such an example at national level is undoubtedly the municipality of Kavarna and the programmes developed and implemented there in the period 2003-2015. This example was quoted even by the previous President of the European Commission, Mr Barroso, as an example of good practices that should be taken by other countries in the European Union. In the words of the then mayor Mr. Tsonko Tsonev, along with the persistence the most important for success is to include Roma themselves in solving their own problems. Thus, in the Roma neighborhood in Kavarna was built a sewerage, was gasified, there is the Internet, the municipality established the right to the construction of the unemployed Roma and so they built houses meeting the requirements of the law. The Roma school was modernized, the kindergarten was renovated, there is a clinic and so on. All this was, of course, realized with the support of European programmes. So, Dear Minister, please answer the following question: what are the possibilities for transferring the experience of the municipality of Kavarna 2003 to the integration of Roma into other municipalities at national level as a successful model for dealing with unemployment, social exclusion and crime in the ghettoized Roma neighborhoods in a number of cities of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u79	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u80	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Slavov, an extremely important and pressing issue, which is in the focus not only of the opportunities we have in terms of Europe's solidarity with operational programmes, but also of the focus of our policies. In short, I will answer: yes, of course, we will benefit from the experience of the municipality of Kavarna. What is coming in the coming months is a synchronized approach between the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to ensure several main directions that we believe would have an effect on Roma integration measures. What is based on previous experience and previous schemes, which are implemented by both national funds and European funds and we have considered, is that the best recipe for solving and with a long-lasting effect on the Roma population is early childhood development and integration, and all measures related to access to health care, access to social services, access to quality education services, access to employment, qualification and re-qualification and solving problems in housing policy. In the Operational Program there are allocated funds for the municipalities who are willing to prepare projects for social housing, together with the Operational Program "Human Resources Development." As of September, 80 million remained. lv. under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" to be opened to the Bulgarian municipalities 30 million of them are for municipalities that will build social housing so that we can ensure the integrity of the whole family, i.e. the opportunity for social housing, the opportunity to find work, improve access to education, access to social inclusion and the possibility of access to education of children. The remaining 50 million are aimed at all other municipalities in the territory of Bulgaria, which, under different other financial sources, including the Rural Development Programme, have the opportunity to contribute to this complex approach to solving serious problems in the municipalities related to Roma integration. I really believe that Kavarna's success could be an example. But not only Kavarna, there are many municipalities in the territory of Bulgaria that have shown that with their joint efforts of the local authorities, of all institutions, of civil society, can solve the problems of Roma inclusion and in a long-lasting effect to have a result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u81	Thank you. Mr. Slavov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, thank you for the serious commitment you expressed to the problem. Indeed, as I have heard from your reply, there are quite serious means to be used to implement such projects. It is very clear to everyone that without taking such decisive measures to integrate these communities, the lasting problems with unemployment, hence with their criminal activities, with getovisation, with domestic crime, and so on in these areas very difficult to solve, not to say I chose the example of the municipality of Kavarna for a reason, perhaps because it is also visible with the naked eye. You don't have to be an expert on the subject. It is enough that he was in Kavarna, whether in the annual rock festivals or for another reason during the summer season, to see the huge difference between what was happening there 12 years ago, and the way the city looks at the moment, including the Roma quarter, he is literally unrecognizable, so the example for me is one of the best and best known to the audience. I liked what you said that you were thinking of bringing together the efforts of all institutions and the non-governmental sector to solve the problem. There is certainly a need for efforts from all stakeholders, but I will allow myself once again to focus on what the then Mayor Tsonko Tsonev paid special attention to, that in addition to perseverance it is very important for Roma themselves to be involved in the process of solving their problems. That is to say, it is not for us, as a society, to give huge public funds, to build social buildings and so on, to provide them with different groups of the Roma population and to treat them as something foreign, to something that should not be guarded, and to see them as something that will serve them for many years, which they must keep and develop on the third month. I think that this should also be taken into account here, and thank you once again for your express commitment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u83	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? You don't think it's necessary. I thank Minister Rusinova for participating in today's parliamentary control. The following questions and questions are addressed to Minister Petar Moskov, Minister of Health. Before that, Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! The rulers react painfully to any attempt to bring the truth to light about the success of their policies. As a classic populist government the cabinet Borisov 2 throws a generous resource of figures and promises whose sole purpose is for society to feel how the train flies while it only shakes. But every populism has a saturation threshold, and then it gets scary. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev reacted quite emotionally two weeks ago to the revelations we made, accused us of lack of expertise. In all our data we correctly used his expertise. It is true, it is not pleasant to be Deputy Prime Minister for EU funds absorption and opposition to tell you that the absorption of EU funds is critical and the rescue options push the budget and the taxpayer. Someone has to end management therapy to society whose sole purpose is to show what dizzying success the government has with European funds. A quarter of a century ago, if you recall, the people believed Kashpirovski's sessions were treating him through the TV. Now the power of GERB wants people to believe that the government is sowing prosperity with European money.. again through the TV. It's been a long time since I've given people your management enthusiasm. It came to the confusion at the entrance of a newly opened museum to attach a memorable sign of how it was discovered with the assistance of the prime minister. Someone was supposed to resent Todor Zhivkov's time!? Here is the totalitarian cult in action and the deliberate irradiation of society! The informed Bulgarian citizens are increasingly determined to emerge from the suggestion of the successfully used funds when GERB manages. The myth cracks. The numbers, percentages, assessments of Europe, audits and reactions of performers come out. The truth is clear: the large spending is from the pocket of the state and its budget, then comes the recovery from the European Commission. After how long, how much and with what financial corrections he probably knows only the Chief over the Prime Minister. It is definitely that this way our country is forced to be entangled in a debt spiral. During this time, we are looking at the relentless truth of tens and hundreds of poorly implemented projects and their compromise. We from BSP left Bulgaria will not be your accomplices in hiding the truth. The public has the right to know that the funds declared as "indemnified" 99% of the Program period 2007 - 2013 are actually at the expense of every Bulgarian's pocket. Because according to the confessions of the Deputy Prime Minister, a valedictorian, unfortunately not a mathematician, the deficit in absorption at the end of last year, as is known, was 406 million. lv. Until it comes to the final recovery, unknown what spending should take over the budget and the pocket of every Bulgarian taxpayer. Power is probably hoping that this will not be understood. From information to the Commission on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds, it is clear that the alarming forecast of how the budgets for the euro programmes for the period 2014 - 2020 are actually reduced by about 15%. The reason is in unfinished projects from the previous programming period. This is a finding provided by the Deputy Prime Minister himself. One of the practices that have been imposed to overcome the problem of unfinished projects is the so-called "fascing." The effect is to reduce the resources for the new operational programmes, especially sensitive are the transport and environment programmes. The public already understands that we are facing an almost zero year in terms of the absorption of funds from the new programming period. The statistics are a ruthless success rate below 5%. If someone hasn't figured it out yet, he's probably among the government, but business, citizens, municipalities and society already know it. You do not need to be an economic analyst, but just a curious high school student to understand that the government's policy of absorption of European funds anchors Bulgaria to the bottom of all Euroclasses. Once again, we will be thrown by the evaluation annual European reports and audits. The prospect of most Bulgarian municipalities is also disastrous. Many of them suffered from the lack of administrative capacity of the government. Bad coordination between different control units and the existence of, to put it mildly, bad practices have led to irresistible financial corrections. This will stop the investment process for a long time, especially in small municipalities, where the bleeding is almost complete. And to top it off, the legislative risk mechanisms of recent amendments to the Public Finance Act have come upon the municipalities. That is where the powers of the finance minister to determine the budgetary fate of local self-government have been given previously unknown in European practice. And from now on it is clear that it will play double archin, because political appropriateness will probably roll up sleeves to defeat economic and financial intelligence. It is obvious that our country is facing another nearly zero year in terms of the use of funds under the Operational Programme. The statistics at the end of the year will be fierce. You'll still be surprised. Generously promoted procedures for over 700 million. lv. in the environment and the waters have the meaning of attractive street flyers. Nothing more! The same hundreds of millions are supposed to be invested in the infrastructure to improve the quality of water services and waste water treatment compared to our set European standards. The truth is that reform in the water sector is the already ordered victim of this government. By mid-2016 all contracts must be signed between water and water operators in the territory of all 29 separate territories in the country, but the so-called three pillars of reform have not yet been built. The sector's stabilisation figures indicate a need of 11 billion. BGN and European funding is likely to give us 3 billion. lv. The state can pour about 1-1.5 billion more. lv. When will the country's governance be startled, because at the moment it has no idea how to secure and pour another 6-7 billion. lv. to bring the sector into line with the requirements we have set before us?! The European Commission launched early the money under the new Operational Programme "Environment" before Bulgaria completed the water reform, but under the condition that it be completed by the end of 2016. In return the Bulgarian authorities agreed the funds to go to the water operators of the network. We had 51 regional plans for the sector, which were launched in 2012, 2013 were a fact 2014 but only a year and a half after that they are useless because they do not cover the need of the 28 districts. The need to find more millions is unlocked in order to complete the already completed general plans under the new.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And then, and now, the same regional minister in the face of Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, fascinated the audience how what was put into these 51 plans has not gone in vain. There is no clarity on the double appreciation of the new pre-investment regional studies, at which their price is around 38 million. lv. The rulers are silent with the unwavering alibi of how Brooksell wants these documents. The absolute inadequacy of governance in the sector "Waters" categorically condemns the water reform of drowning. Dear rulers, the curtain behind your back is not a barricade to hide behind. Realize in time that the responsibility is to be a European country, adequate in time to protect and absorb hundreds of millions of European funds in order to live the citizens of this country as Europeans. Find your pre-election control platforms and either follow them or admit that you are unable to perform them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u85	Thank you, Mr. Genov. We move on to responses from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov. The first question is from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov on the State-sponsored payments to the Fund for the Treatment of Children. Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u86	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I have asked you a written question, which I am extremely dissatisfied with and worried about about the new organisation of dispensation of patients in outpatient care, because it makes the quality of their services worse. But that's another topic. My question today is related to the Children's Treatment Fund. I asked you this question last November, but it turns out it's still up to date. I'll tell you why. Because in view of the situation surrounding the Fund for the Treatment of Children linked after the spectacular release of the previous management of the Fund because of a corruption charge, tensions continue to exist because the protests are still ongoing. I mean the June 1st protest at the Ministry. The accusations are that there is again a delay in decision-making procedures for conducting treatment of our Bulgarian children. I will briefly recall a case of 17 November last year, when sharp lines were exchanged between two state institutions, the Ministry of Health and the Fund for the Treatment of Children, in view of the delays and partial payments. Other disputes arose, which, unfortunately, were mainly conducted through the media. I hope that we will receive an answer that you do not share, and that we can see your position whether it is appropriate for two state institutions to conduct dialogue through the media and in such a form. Another dispute arose, which I would not like to dwell on in detail because the public is not familiar with the signing of the S2 form. To remind you in a nutshell...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u87	Form the question, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u88	This form is signed when treating our children in Member States of the European Union. It's a purely administrative act that could be resolved. The other questions I have presented to you in writing. Mr. Chairman, let me make this very brief...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u89	Just the question! Time's up!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u90	I will make the questions very briefly: are there late payments? What are the reasons for this delay? Is there a delay in treating children? Is there a delayed treatment for children abroad? Is there any debt to clinics abroad, which is why treatment cannot be carried out? Have the Ministry of the Fund carried out any checks? What are the results? Let's be familiar. What do you foresee to solve the administrative problem of signing the S2 form? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u91	Thank you. Please all stick to the time as there are many questions. Minister, you have three minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u92	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, I will try to be as brief as possible. All the additional information you need, Dr. Chakarov, I have a commitment to provide it in writing so we can get into the procedures. Once again, an apology for delaying the question in the part that depends on me. I will try to answer the picture to ask the question at the end of November 2015 and give a certain refresh in relation to the current situation. The first question for late payments. In 2015, 12 million were approved for treatment of children. lv. By September, payments to the Fund for the Treatment of Children were 8.5 million. lv. On the basis of a media event in November, as you call it, related to a statement by the Fund that the Ministry does not finance child treatment, I will say that the Ministry has translated and continues to translate any amount after a protocol of a decision of the Public Council, as it is under the Rules of the Fund and the regulations of the State. For the money that, on the date of the media event, which I agree should not be media, and administratively, such protocols were not received at the Ministry. To the question of why the protocols were not given, the answer was that there was an error in the administration of the Fund. The minutes were given the next day and literally then, which is evident from the documents, all the money needed for the approved protocols was translated. With regard to the second question, I would not have been able to answer the question at the time of asking the question so strongly yes, there is, or no, there is not. I can say that at present there is not a single child whose documentation has not been examined during a meeting of the Public Council. What is the reason why the Public Council and the Operational Management are now presenting requests from parents or doctors who have directed parents to the Fund in November, this is perhaps part of the reason why all the changes to the Fund have taken place. At the moment, we are building a functioning legal system in the Fund. That is to say, when your question has come up, there is an incoming, outgoing number and so on, it is clear when it was received that the speed and adequacy of the actions of the respective administration, which is currently being formed, can be measured. Some of the stuff was received on a mailbox, at an address in the mail as letters. The organization of this process has not been good enough. We are currently in the process of reconstruction and clear reporting with an electronic system in which parents can monitor the movement of their child's file. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There's a lot more to answer. Just one more sentence. From the point of view of the money, a total of 12.5 million with 5 million additional restructuring of the Ministry's budget, because there was so much need for the Fund's decisions. To say that in 2014 the Fund's budget was 6 million. Now it's doubled, and I hope that this is a good common goal, and we will achieve it together. I have something else to say about it, but maybe in the duplicate procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u93	Thank you. Mr. Chakarov, within two minutes you can make a reply to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, it is obvious, indeed, that the subject is of very high public sensitivity and it is perfectly understandable why it is so. Knowing the situation that I would not like to repeat around the Fund for the Treatment of Children Abroad, it is evident that really the dialogue between the two institutions has not been at the necessary heights. It is not right for it to take place through the media, naturally, the media must be corrective and have a civil position. After all that has occurred in the Fund for the Treatment of Children and the situation around it, it is evident that there is tension and tension. It is evident that there are many steps, as you have pointed out, Mr. Minister, that they must be implemented. I cannot accept and am not convinced, and given that I was also a minister, that there is no legal system in the Fund for the Treatment of Children and that it is not intended to process the documentation and all of this to function in an accelerated manner so that adequate and effective treatment can be carried out in the end for children who need this treatment. It's obvious there's tension. The protest on 1 June, which I have already pointed out, states that there is again a delay in the examination of the procedures, you say otherwise. We need to know what the truth is. Is there a speeding up really, have the shapes been found? I would also like to have an answer to other questions, and one of them is that there is an idea that the Fund will be closed and that its functions will be assumed by the Ministry of Health. My question is: is there such an option? If there is, what are the reasons for this? My second additional question relates to the insistence of representatives of the Fund's Public Council last year on the funding of medical devices to be transferred to the National Health Insurance Fund, arguing that this treatment of children should be on clinical pathways, to be provided here in view of specific needs? How do you plan to determine the competences for the signing of the so-called "Formuljar S2"? Indeed, this should not be any obstacle. The aim of all of us is to have adequate and effective treatment for Bulgarian children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. There are further questions. You have the opportunity, Mr. Minister, to make a duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u96	Mr. Chairman, Dr. Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Quick, so I can answer anything so you don't get the impression that I'm not. Did anyone have an idea, Dr. Chakarov, about closing the Fund? It's very possible. Different people, different ideas. This was never my idea, I never had such an idea, and I never will! Regarding the transfer to the Cashier, I do not believe that this is a good option. I will try in two sentences to summarize what the role of the Fund should be. Regarding the procedures, once again, I say: at the moment, who claims and who has what ideas at the moment, until the establishment of a legal system that is also publicly traceable based on an identification code which, if my or your child needs, we can track how our file is moving. On a daily basis of the establishment of the organisation of the Director of the Fund, any request and the course of examination of the file shall be reported. It sounds primitive, but until the establishment of the legal system such is the personalized human control mechanism. About the S2 forms, let me say the following two sentences, if I have time, Mr. Chairman. Probably in the minds of some people the Fund is something other than what it is or should be. If it's just a philosophical gap, it's understandable. If it is about different financial interests, it is not so understandable. We have the system of national health insurance through the Casa, possibly additional and voluntary funds, funds of the state, social funds through which Bulgarian citizens, especially children, have clear mechanisms to heal. The S2 form and the treatment of the Bulgarian child abroad, in the European Union, which the state cannot provide in Bulgaria, this is our constitutional right. There is no reason to have an activity of the Fund to consider whether it can suspend such a constitutional right as the Casa to pay. That is, against the backdrop of these pillars, which the state, society and each of us, when we had the opportunity, improved. The Fund is a safety net, the Fund is a network below which, if there is something the State has not foreseen, the Cashier does not pay, additional logistics costs are needed, there is a new kind of treatment that is not included at this stage in some of these basic funds, the Fund must pay it so that no child can remain untreated. The Fund didn't have a job and it was never a job to duplicate the work of the Cashier, the work of the state. The mechanisms for issuing procedures, for uniformising the expertise of these institutions are currently under way. If there's another option, I'll answer more. Once again, there is not a single child whose case file is delayed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u97	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are going to ask the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev about the application of the bans and restrictions on smoking introduced by the Health Act. You can develop your question in three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u98	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members! My question relates to the bans and restrictions on smoking introduced by the Health Act. I made a similar request to Minister Moskov last year for the period 1 January "1 December 2014. My question is now for the same period " 11 months from 2015. Personally, on my observations, this ban continues to be ignored. Last year, when I asked this question, Minister Moskov said, I quote: "There is an urgent need to refine some of the texts in the Law with a view to achieving a higher efficiency of the control carried out and a higher degree of protection of public health. Unfortunately, in one year I did not see any legal changes and initiatives coming from the Ministry. We need to think, if there is a need for those as requested, to be inserted. If the Ministry itself cannot, any MP can make these changes. Also, in addition to this part of legal changes, the other issues I have included in the questioning are: what additional control measures for compliance with the ban and smoking restriction have been introduced at the moment for the past year? How many fines have been imposed on natural persons in connection with the same ban for the period 1 January 2015? How many fines have been imposed on legal persons in connection with the same ban for the period 1 January 2015? How many signals of violation of the ban have been received on the phone? You know that there is a phone for this purpose where they can be signaled? Last year, the information that was released for 184,000 signals, it occurred to me that if we split 184,000 signals into 365 days, let's say that every day it was checked, it turns out that there are 505 checks every day, of course, in the 28 directorates, which I really hope is the case. We also discussed last year about inspectors and the number of inspectors involved in this work. Is there any change in that direction, is there more inspectors checking? I expect to hear the Minister's answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u99	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for an answer to your question within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u100	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Ananiev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, thank you for keeping the topic of public attention through periodic questions, because it is clear that compliance with the rules and improving the parameters of public health and control over it is one of the important topics of the nation. From the point of view of taking action to amend the Law, let me say that a working group has been established for several months. It is inter-agency, it is also related to hearing the positions of different associations, of business people. Perhaps the work is not going well at the pace that we all would like, but indeed the imposition of an additional one, let's call it, a repressive, aggravating regime or other measures, it is also associated with serious social consequences. Rather, what she has tried in the meantime, while trying to achieve some public consensus, is the ministry's work, its control bodies, to focus on ensuring the implementation of the current legislation, where there are relatively undisputed texts to be observed. With regard to the data you have requested, I inform you that the Ministry receives weekly information from the regional health inspections on the health control carried out in the country on compliance with the requirements of the Health Act on restrictions. Between 1 January 2015 and 1 January 2015 A total of 175 792 inspections, daily and nocturnal, of 172 395 sites, were carried out in the 28 regional health inspections in the country. 225 prescriptions were issued, 652 acts were issued for detected violations and 553 penal decrees were issued for a total of BGN 477 500, nearly half a million. The information received also contains details of the persons subject to fines and property penalties under the Law. Accordingly, from 1 January 2015 to 4 December 2015, 518 infringement acts were issued and 406 criminal decrees were issued to natural persons. To legal persons, including sole traders, 132 acts for detected violations were drawn up and 136 penal decrees were issued. For the above period in the regional health inspections in the country 1307 signals were received on the phone for violation of the ban on driving are quite many, you are right. 2712 inspections were carried out at 2538 sites. For the infringements found, 221 acts of administrative infringement were drawn up, of which 179 "of natural persons' and 49 "of legal persons, including sole traders'. 242 penal decrees were issued to individuals and 21 to legal persons, including sole traders, for a total of 100 300 BGN. According to regional health inspections, a higher number of alerts are received electronically through the electronic mails announced on the websites of each inspection. In conclusion, I assure you that the Ministry will continue to follow the principle of a consistent policy for the protection of health through compliance and compliance with the health requirements laid down by law regarding the restriction of smoking in public places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ananiev, come in. So far, we're talking about annual statistics and perhaps more interesting questions are: is there a reduction in cigarette consumption, a reduction in certain diseases, which is actually talking about some kind of policy? You're welcome to formulate your further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u102	Thank you for your information, Minister, although in its second part it coincides 100% with the one from 2014. Perhaps you should check whether there is any duplication of the figures, as they are one to one which seems statistically impossible to me to match entirely. Unfortunately, there is some reduction in the controls themselves, but perhaps that is what we should concentrate on, and not increase the number of checks. Obviously, they do not lead to any change, but to a change of legislation. I have lived for 11 years in Ireland and 2004 there was introduced the smoking ban. In the beginning, the first three, four, five months had resistance, of course, from owners and so on, but after very strict rules were introduced, including the withdrawal of a license to carry out commercial activity and other perhaps serious dragon measures, perhaps in a month everyone began to comply with this ban. I do not know what is the direction of the working group that is formed, what type of legal initiatives they are preparing. Here I want, if you can tell me, what is the direction of legal initiatives? It is about more dragonic sanctioning measures or some other health policy-related measures, because we have always said that when there is a ban and it is not respected, it makes precedents, and it also shows mostly to young people that we can not comply with the bans, because of them there will be no consequences, and this contributes to building a thinking that I do not think is good for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. You're welcome to answer the additional question, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u104	Mr. President, Mr. Ananiev, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of those who received and based on your inquiry the previous time, and on the basis of the public discussions that we are following in the Ministry on the matter, and received proposals and reasons for the inability of regional health inspections to carry out checks, probably in the volume and with the consequences that we are all asked for, this is the topic of the work of the working group, in what way to improve the activity in order to have additional weapons, more clearly defined legally in their hands health inspections. Otherwise, I fully share your thesis - it would be foolish not to do so - that, in fact, the possibility of being a legal society is largely dependent on whether for all of us there is the same penalty, given that we do not comply with the rules? This is the criterion of whether or not we are a legal society. We aim for that, I hope, all of us. On the other hand, I take occasion from Mr. Chairman's line. We've put in some action. Apparently, there's no smoking in a serious area. Perhaps there are exceptions, perhaps there should be more systematic checks. This should lead to some type of reduction in smoking and a reduction in the purchase of tobacco products, which is somewhat objective statistics somehow and is not with a delay. We can simply say within the month whether consumption has decreased. It's not! I mean, I think we have had this conversation in a previous discussion on the issue that, outside the sentencing regime, what needs to be done by the state is linked to an aggressive modern-day education policy, talking policy and prevention in schools, promoting and promoting a different healthy lifestyle, which also includes quitting smoking. In this regard, there is a comprehensive government program that may be a little difficult, but is trying to trigger.. in connection with physical activity, in relation to harmful habits, drugs and so on. That is to say, for me, outside the law's flexion in its Sanctuary, in its repressive part, the effect will lead to another, really modern, not protocol, not a clerical type of informational policy about harm and advertising a different way of life that we all have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u105	Thank you. Would you like to express an attitude?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u106	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u107	Thank you. We move on to the next question by the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov concerning problems with the supply of consumables for carrying out research of cancer patients with the PET scanner in the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u108	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Moskov, I ask this question because in November last year I received a signal from a patient who suffered severe cancer surgery. Then she informed me that once again there were problems with the delivery of radioactive isotopes to the Clinic of Nuclear Medicine at the University Hospital of Alexandrovska, needed to conduct research with the PET scanner at the relevant clinic center. According to the patient, a study with the PET scanner was postponed on 26 November 2015 and several times after that dates were scheduled, both for her and for many more patients. In the first case for 14 patients, with the administration of the Clinic indicated as a reason that there is no supply of the necessary ones, as I have indicated, isotopes that were delivered from Romania. The patient informed me that I could provide you with this information that in 2014 she had encountered similar problems with delaying the study of the PET scanner. It is hardly necessary that we, as doctors, and the whole public knows how important it is for such patients to be examined in a timely manner, because this means not only treatment, it also means a great deal of chance for them. In this regard, my questions to you are: - What are the causes of the problems with the supply of radioactive isotopes for the Nuclear Medicine Clinic at the University Hospital of Alexandrovska and is there still such problems at the moment? - Does the Ministry of Health get information when there are such problems? - Is the Cyclotron complex at the University Hospital already fully operational, opened on 23 October 2015? - Is there a lasting solution to the problem of the irregular supply of radioactive isotopes of the Clinic of Nuclear Medicine at the University Hospital of Alexandrovska? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I ask this question with the desire to help both the University Hospital and the doctors who work there so that they can carry out their duties professionally, establish diagnostically the condition of the sick and speed up their treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u109	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Dr. Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, you will get the full version of the issue with specific things, but in order to save time, I will not move on this because I am following the topic. Let me say that at the date of asking the question there was a problem over about a week with the delivery of the relevant isotope, which is actually 18F, for the needs of the Nuclear Medicine Clinic. This was linked to a manufacturing defect in the place where the relevant isotope was then supplied, namely from Romania. You know that over time Bulgaria first supplied from Hungary at a price of about 3000, then from Romania at a price just below 2000. Then it was overcome within a week, indeed in a week there really was a delay in research on these people. Currently, there is no delay at the Aleksandrovska Hospital and at the other places where such positronic and emission Tomographs operate in the country, there is no delay at all, there are rhythmic deliveries at the Alexandrovska Hospital in particular. At the moment, the entire waiting list has been cleared, there is a record at the moment. I checked just before I left, in relation to your question, in order to be fully up-to-date, there are patients recorded for two weeks ahead, which is the normal period for carrying out these tests. With the purchase in Bulgarian hospitals of such modern equipment and with the creation of an opportunity, we have improved, we do not say decided finally, there is much more to be done, the possibility of modern, quality, fast, timely treatment of patients with such a severe disease. From the perspective of the work of the own cyclotron of the Aleksandrovska hospital, because at the moment, I say again, we delivered years ago from Hungary to 3000 BGN, then delivered from Romania to 2000 BGN, now the delivery is made by one unit to Sofia, which formulated this isotope, the price is below 1000 BGN. With the active, final working of the cyclotron at the Alexandrovska Hospital, the use of the isotope will be within about 300 BGN. The reason for the delay in this thing, as you yourself said, it was formal with all the permissions of the institutions "The Nuclear Regulatory Agency and others given at the end of last year is that after the authorisation was issued, the Nuclear Regulatory Agency subsequently changed its opinion and requested additional tests beyond those which it conducted to issue this permit. I have the assurances, based on formal correspondence with the Nuclear Regulatory Agency and with the management of the hospital, that it is a matter of ten days in which this is finally resolved, i.e. once again there is no hospital waiting list, beyond the reasonable, from the point of view of patients entering and the problem is solved. I hope that with the new, even lower cost of the isotope, this will lead to an opportunity for the hospital to work better.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u111	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have rarely achieved a reduction in prices for certain products.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u112	No, no, we do that a lot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u113	I am talking in general in the overall economic environment that there are nevertheless some areas of significant reduction. Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, from what you've said, you've obviously not been given correct information. The delay is not just a week. From what the cancer patient has provided me with information, it is about a month and a half delay. I believe that this is not right for such patients, with such a profile, to have such a delay, and I am convinced that you will take and rather assure us that this should no longer be allowed. It is obvious that the topic is very sensitive, as for the previous case, which we discussed and discussed here from the high tribune of the National Assembly. In this case, it is important to hear from you: Have you received information and, as it is right for the state to take its position to assist the hospitals and colleagues concerned, and the aim is one, according to the latest achievements in science and technology, to help the sick to receive modern treatment and to do so even if possible in our country? With the Cyclotron complex, I am convinced that you will do what is necessary and it would be good to hear once again that it will walk this time, all the more so that there is a serious donation from Canada to this complex, it will function. Once again, the context of what I just said, not to repeat myself to those who are suffering from a really modern diagnosis and treatment. This is the goal of all of us, where it is necessary for the institutions to do their jobs, there is no delay, because we already have very serious problems in this area, they need to be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u115	Thank you. During the time frame, there were differences. Will you take the floor? Here you go, Mr. Moskov, use your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Dr. Chakarov, ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, I really appreciate these are important topics and should be public, because sometimes publicity takes off the masks of bad practices from the past, which we hope with joint efforts that we are overcoming. It is possible that the specific signal that is to you as a Member of the National Assembly, possibly in your host, the patient in question was under the impression that due to the accumulation of patients, this would have resulted in a delay in its treatment of more than a month. I assure you that from the point of view of real documents, how much real time due to the absence of an isotope the cyclotron did not work, this is within a week, maybe eight days, but that's that much. If you want, I'll give you the specific protocol. If the accumulation of patients from this period has led to a month delay in the treatment of the patient in question, this leads her to tell you that the cyclotron has not worked for more than a month, this is unacceptable and bad, of course, but I say again, at the moment, such a problem is neither in..Alexandrovska, nor in any of the other centers that have this really modern apparatus exists. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u117	Thank you. We are moving on to a question again from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev about the spread of glisofate in the bodies of Bulgarian citizens and an assessment of its impact on human health. Here you are, Mr. Ananiev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u118	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I asked this question about the globe and the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Environment and Water, and, of course, given that you as Minister of Health and who cares about health, it was reasonable to ask it to you, as it is worrying in general, at the moment in the last week there is a very large debate in the European Union, it is related to the renewal license of this herbicide which expires on 1 July 2016 and the vote that happened to extend this license. In fact, this vote has not passed since Germany, France, Italy, Greece, Austria, Portugal abstained and Malta voted against. Unfortunately, at least unfortunately, Bulgaria has supported the extension of this license. The International Cancer Research Agency has a report "This Agency is at the World Health Organization, which shows, of course, that there is real evidence of a link between exposure to gliphosate and the development of cancers, particularly non-Hodjikin's lymphoma and lung cancer. So I raised the topic itself because the study that was done in Europe says that 10% of Bulgarians have this herbicide in their body, which means that it must somehow reach them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My specific three questions are: have studies carried out by the Ministry of Health on the effect of herbicide on citizens' health? Has it been investigated for distribution and availability in the bodies of Bulgarian citizens? Has the Ministry taken measures to prevent and protect the health of Bulgarian citizens from the effects of the herbicide gliphosate?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u119	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u120	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ananiev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course, there is a specific, prepared by the relevant expertise of the Ministry, an answer to you, which again I think is on a question relating to a previous topic, I do not know whether yours or any other Member of the National Assembly. The issue is entirely and solely from the competence of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Until now, the Ministry of Health has not received any signals from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency or other government and non-governmental organisations for harmful effects on human health, as a result of exposure to plant protection products containing glaucoma, with a view to conducting an epidemiological study and taking risk management measures. That is, if you, as a national representative or the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, which, if it reaches these things, enters this thing into the Ministry, there are appropriate procedures to proceed to. What I know for sure is that as a result of the discussion on this issue in the Food Agency, the Minister of Agriculture has imposed a monitoring procedure for those accumulations you are talking about, tracking the effect and everything else. Otherwise, you're right. During the past week, because the license of a particular product expires, there is probably a desire to replace it with another product, which will probably also not be composed of violets. There is such a discussion in the European Union. What I know from my conversation with the Minister of Agriculture Mrs. Taneva is that next week there is arbitration at the level of the European Commission and Bulgaria will accordingly comply with any decision of this arbitration. But once again, what the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is doing is currently a monitoring procedure. On your question: is the state taking any action? If from this monitoring, according to the protocols of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, relevant reports and conclusions are produced, the Ministry will take all measures required under the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u121	Thank you. Mr. Ananiev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u122	I thank the Minister for the answer he gave, but I always wish there was a chance for self-serving. If a European study has found 10% presence in the bodies of the Bulgarians of this herbicide, perhaps it should be some self-seizing by the Ministry of Health itself. I actually know that this is an agricultural product and from agriculture should come, so to speak, the red flag to happen, since the subject is quite large for Europe and we are talking about three of the largest countries that are France, Germany and Italy, which are abstaining because this herbicide also gives them some problems. With arbitration, of course, we'll see what happens. There are policies of the European Union and so on, but we are talking about the health of the Bulgarian citizen and whether this product actually harms or not. I know it's being done, or I'm preparing to do, such a monitoring of agriculture. I was a little surprised that from the Environment and Water Minister Vasileva said that she was not on their list for water inspection, which I think should happen, but I do not know what the procedure is. Maybe the Ministry of Health should get on this list of checks. I think there are, so to speak, such red flags that say that something needs to be done in this direction, and not wait for the European Union, for example, to ban it and start following it and then follow what will happen there and things here to happen post-factum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u123	We can move on to the next question from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov on the intention of the Ministry of Health for the development of hospital care in the territory of Shumen region. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop and raise the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! First of all, before I raise my question, I would like to point out that he entered on 2 February 2016, which to a certain extent calls into question his relevance, but it is still nice, Mr Minister, to hear your treatment of the problem. My question is on the following subject: in the territory of Shumen district there are already only one hospital entirely municipal property of capital. On this date there were two in the town of Veliki Preslav and the town of Novi Pazar, and one with a majority government share in the town of Shumen. My question is: what has the Ministry of Health provided for the closure and merger of hospitals in the area? My request is to hear what are the motives of the Ministry for this activity which is already taking place? Why is it necessary to close hospitals? Is there an analysis done by the Ministry on the part of the Health Insurance Fund? What has led to this thing, because it is already a fact that the work is stopped as an independent hospital of the hospital in Novi Pazar and the transfer of activities to the city of Shumen? People are worried. I've had dozens of meetings in the area, but let's still hear your answer, so that I can share later on in the duplicate what happened, and what concerns people share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Moskov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u126	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Of course I will answer your question specifically, but in front of parentheses. I very politely, precisely and in detail answer every question that is clearly and correctly asked. In this case, if you continue, Mr. Ivanov, to maintain the thesis that the policy of the Ministry is for the closure of hospitals in Shumen, I will be forced in my duplicate to answer you harshly enough. So please, let's stick to the facts. The introduction of the hospital in Novi Pazar to the hospital is actually due to the decision of both municipal councils. The reason for this is that the hospital in Novi Pazar essentially had to decide otherwise the municipal council as emptied of content, by personnel with a severe debt crisis to cease to exist. That is to say, the decision to unite, for the delivery of the new market hospital in Shumen Hospital, is in fact the rescue and provision of the people of Novi Pazar, that there will be a hospital there, and from the point of view of the policy of the Ministry and the expansion of the opportunities of these people with the personnel and equipment capabilities of Shumen Hospital, i.e. this is a process of preserving this hospital. The idea was because for me it really continues to be the better option, and the hospital in Veliki Preslav to join this thing in one way or another there are different opportunities in the Law so that the levels of treatment in Shumen district can really be clear enough for people to have an echelonization so that the large hospital in the area can take on really heavy cases, and smaller hospitals such as the one in Veliki Preslav and the one in Novi Pazar can serve a more daily pathology, according to the level of competence it has there. I mean, I say again, it's an act, I congratulate the two municipal councils. From my point of view, you should support the state's decision that we have preserved in this way, thanks to the interaction between the local and central authorities, the Novi Pazar hospital and the people there will continue to have a hospital. I hope that Veliki Preslav will also go his way of joining this union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u127	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u128	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Yes, you are right that this happened after a decision of the Municipal Council, but my request is that you at least do a check to see what is happening there and what is the personnel security at the moment regarding this medical facility in Novi Pazar, which has passed within the Shumen Hospital, that is, at least its activity has passed. Because at my meeting with voters, it was shared that there was already a lack of personnel there, not enough patients were served, and they were forced to travel to Shumen. Indeed, to check the consequences of this thing because in the end we are talking here about the service of the sick in the territory not only of the municipality Novi Pazar, but also of the municipality of Kaspichan and the municipality of Nikola Koslevo and to make an analysis really of the consequences of this decision, which is jointly, of course, both of the state and of the Municipal Council of the city of Shumen and of the city of Novi Pazar. I don't understand, and I'm really going to ask for some more detailed analysis of why this has to happen in the town of Veliki Preslav, when there is no problem at least in financial terms? I have carefully followed and read your reports in this regard, as well as the data provided by the Ministry of Health. There needs to be some motive that can actually convince the municipal councillors and the citizens of Veliki Preslav that there will not happen the same thing that is happening in Novi Pazar. I mean, the lack of footage. You yourself said that this thing had it at the beginning and it forced the municipality to do this, of course, was the easy way for the municipality to proceed to this step, but still some motivation must also be made for Veliki Preslav. Moreover, I would ask you to analyse why this situation has come to this situation at Novi Pazar Hospital. One of the personnel decisions you made was to transfer the leadership of the Novomarket Hospital to the city of Shumen. I suppose you trust those people who run the hospital in Novi Pazar City. Understand me very well, we are talking about the treatment of patients within three municipalities and let us look for the best solution in this direction, that is, not deprived of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question of hospital care in the three municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u130	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank you for actually sharing the general conclusion that the hospital in Novi Pazar has actually been saved and has not been liquidated. Otherwise, I take the commitment within one week, i.e. next Friday, to provide you with a written message................................................................................................ to invite you to my office and to my office, with data about what it was personnel before the.the.the...the merger situation before the merger of the merger of the mergering between the merger of the merger of the two medical facilitiesing between the two medical facilitiesing between the two medical facilities of the two medical facilities of the two medical institutionsaming of the two medical facilities of the two medical facilities of the two medical facilities of the two medical facilities of the two medical facilities, whether the two medical facilities, whether the two medical facilities, whether the two medical facilities, whether they have continued. For me, the philosophy in which citizens of a less populated place like Veliki Preslav, or like Novi Pazar, or any of the smaller municipalities you spoke about, has an echelonized, coordinated medical approach available is better for them. But I'll invite you next week with the results of this analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u131	Thank you. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Philip Popov about measures with the so-called virus "Zika" carried by mosquitoes. Mr. Popov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u132	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! My question was asked a long time ago, I don't know if anything can be done about the fight against this virus anymore. In Bulgaria the spread of the mosquito carrier of the virus has been officially confirmed for several years in Burgas region, but by the end of 2016 there is already evidence of its presence in other areas: Blagoevgrad, Vratsa, Montana, Plovdiv and Stara Zagora. Of course, distribution is also not excluded in other settlements in the Danube plain. My question to you is: what measures will the Ministry represented by you take to address this threat and prevent the spread of the virus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u133	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u134	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Popov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, once again, because many people are looking at us to clarify, and I hope you will agree that we are talking about the following: in Bulgaria there is neither proven nor potentially In Bulgaria there are species of mosquitoes that are a potential carrier of this virus and such a real danger for the Bulgarian population at the moment. I'm asking you in your line to confirm it so people don't get the wrong impression. Otherwise, what the Ministry has undertaken is linked to a clear prescription to regional health inspection. On our page and on the Foreign Ministry's website there are clear detailed instructions for people entering or exiting regions with increased risk of spreading this virus, what are the procedures, what are the possible symptoms and what actions should be taken. It is actually good because when there is more than one threat and it is possible to work together, we combined the procedure, including the procedure for this, together with Romania, to talk about how we eliminate the potential danger, i.e. not to have this type of tiger mosquito on the territory of Bulgaria. Together, the public procurement is currently under way for the suburban municipalities, whose contractor will be the Ministry of Agriculture, along with the relevant Romanian authorities, with which we will coordinate this because it makes sense on both sides to do...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u135	Aren't they too late from agriculture?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u136	No, it's not about being late, it's about procedures that are running. The municipalities have also conducted their procedures and the information that comes into the public health departments is that in part of the municipalities around Maritsa, such a spray process has already been made, as well as in part of the municipalities of the sea. And the other is related to a joint, really beyond what the municipalities of obligation make an additional effort of the state, which we hope to copy jointly, firstly, the possibility of developing a population of such mosquitoes that are a potential carrier of this virus, and, secondly, dealing with modular dermatitis, and the substances with which this thing should be eradicated are the same. That is, this process is in procedure and we hope to do this as quickly as possible. Again, this is a building effort of the state over what municipalities should do anyway under their municipal plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u137	Thank you. Mr. Popov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yes, this is really about prevention, about the possible prevention of this virus through these carriers. However, my doubts and concerns about what you mentioned about the Ministry of Agriculture is that this reaction will already be too late because the population of this species of mosquitoes itself is no longer subject to treatment. So they're already spreading, and that's creating a danger to the virus itself. In this regard, no treatment has yet been carried out in the border regions of the Danube and by the State, these municipalities have received no means to treat, to spray, figuratively speaking, against any species of mosquitoes, including this tiger mosquito, which is the carrier of this virus. In this regard, I hope and urge you, as Minister of Health, to take the necessary urgent measures in coordination with the Ministry of Agriculture for one really, if it is still possible, timely treatment in relation to the sub-Dunav municipalities against the distributor of this type of disease, the Zika virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Minister Moskov, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Popov! I absolutely share the concerns you have. Sometimes the desire to coordinate, including internationally defined actions, slow down certain procedures. I hope and I'll keep you posted. I make this commitment to the maximum speed of these, even somewhere perhaps late, procedures. I take this opportunity to say once again that there is another such question from your colleague Mr. Antonov, if you have to unite something, say so.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u141	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the People's President Vasil Antonov on specific measures ensuring the effectiveness of the dissecting and de-scarification events in the municipalities along the Danube River. You have the floor, dear Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! To some extent, my question is covered by the question of the MP before me, Mr. Popov. Still, I find mine more comprehensive, so I'm going to ask it. Dear Minister, at the beginning of February 2016, the Association of Danube Municipalities strongly reminded of the need for urgent measures in municipalities along the Danube River, aimed at preventing Zika virus from spreading through mosquito bites. For effective management of mosquito problems, it is essential that both ground and aviation spray be carried out in an appropriate period and simultaneously sprayed on both sides of the Danube River. Often, however, there is no coordination between the Bulgarian and Romanian institutions. Almost every year until now, disinsecting and dezacarisation events have been delayed due to public procurement appeals, lack of coordination, delays in public procurement, funds and so on. At this stage, there is no clarity as to what targeted funds the municipalities will have. I would like to remind you here that I asked the question on 2 March, and the issue of funds has not been resolved so far. My question to you is: what specific measures have been taken by the Ministry of Health and personally by you to ensure effective disinsecting and dezacarisation measures in municipalities along the Danube River? Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u143	Thank you. Minister Moskov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u144	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Antonov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just once again, I ask you to be correct with the people who are listening to us, because there are accumulation of questions in this direction. Let us say that the questions, regardless of their correctness, accuracy and need for answers, were asked and concerned accordingly a few months ago when there was more emphasis on this on the basis of referral by the World Health Organisation. I cannot say that while there is no official confirmation of this, it must be reduced or reduced vigilance towards this thing, but time does not confirm, as may be in other cases, that a high alert danger will actually lead to severe consequences. As you can see, in the coming months, it seems that both the reports on the matter have been reduced and the measures that the WHO and the world health authorities have invited countries to carry out. Once again, let us reassure the viewers and listeners that there is no direct danger to the territory of Bulgaria related to this virus. Regarding the specific measures in relation to the sub-Dunav municipalities. If I repeat myself with the answer to Mr. Popov, I would ask you to excuse me. Prescriptions are prepared to the mayors of all municipalities with administrative districts: Vidin, Montana, Vratsa, Pleven, Veliko Tarnovo, Silistra and Ruse for the timely organization and conduct of disinsecting treatments against mosquitoes and de-caring events against ticks and to limit their occurrence, development and spread on the territory of the country of the Asian Tiger Mosquito, of anofeli mosquitos, carryers of malaria. In letters to those mayors, further instructions are provided for the conduct of disinsecting events against mosquito larvae during the spring-summer period this year to start earlier in order to reduce the number of larvae and interrupt the cycle of reproduction of flying mosquitoes. It is explained to the mayors that three larvae are recommended during spring-summer season and three treatments against the imaginal forms of mosquitoes during the summer period. I'm sorry to talk in terminology. The relevant hospitals in these territories have been sent letters to establish an organisation for the preparation of medical networks for conduct and therapeutic behaviour in suspicious cases and information about the causes, clinical picture and ways to prevent the disease. Accordingly, on 12 February this year, the Ministry of Health made to the Ministry of Health of Romania a proposal to form an expert group to develop an organisation for joint coordinated treatments. You know there have been frequent political changes in Romania during the period. The decision we have reached perhaps a little later, but it will be effective, believe me, is related to the procedures that are currently under way to upgrade the events in the municipalities. Here the claims of municipalities to the state are, how can I say, controversial because they are obliged to do so according to their statutory duties. For what value, for what public contracts and so on, this should not be a particular commitment of the state. Excuse me, but the state builds on these sprays that I said, the procedures that municipalities are legally required to do, or assist them, if you prefer that type of response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u145	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Antonov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, what you're saying is very good. Zika hasn't been found at the moment. Whether there is such a danger, you better know. Somehow it gets the impression that everything is the result of not being at our geographical location. The measures you have notified and taken are, unfortunately, due to the results that have occurred. And the results are that there's a large population of mosquitoes. During a certain period they reproduce in geometric progression. And this year there is nothing different from previous years, unfortunately, I say, because the result is mournful for the Danube municipalities, and not just for them, because this year is very wet. Even recently, a day ago, we were there with fellow MP Dr. Raynov and the findings are the same as I am telling you. The measures are very behind. The rich countries can allow themselves to cyclically spray against mosquitoes and the cycles to be very small, but in the case of poorer countries, as we define ourselves, we need an iron organisation to be carried out early in the spring and accordingly move on to this method of work, as well as coordination. Part of your function is to coordinate these processes. It is true that things have been delayed and there are no funds in all municipalities, but this is where we see your role. This year we must try to make an effort and the municipalities, of course, to save the situation. Next year, we must definitely do this task more in time and organised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Minister Moskov, the coat? You won't take advantage. We are moving on to the next question by the National Representative Emil Raynov concerning problems in providing fuel for ambulances of emergency medical care serving the population of the municipalities of Sofia region. Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! At the time of the adoption of PMS No 243 of 4 September last year for the transformation of the Emergency Medical Center, Sofia District, through a merger with the Emergency Medical Center, Sofia District, have you considered the problem of providing fuel for ambulances that serve the 22 municipalities of Sofia Region? What kind of decision did you have in mind? What are the reasons why the Emergency Medical Center in Sofia at the time of asking the question, and it is 23 March this year, has found no way to provide the fuel to ambulances for emergency assistance in Sofia district municipalities? Thank you in advance, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Raynov. Minister Moskov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Dr. Raynov, it is always an honor to answer your specific questions. In relation to this question, I will say the following. There is no reason why the merger of the two centers in a common center Sofia and Sofia district leads to a problem with fuel supply, there is no formal reason. I would like to say that CSM, Sofia City had achieved good conditions, if you like, I will show you the specific parameters, but they are part of a trade contract, with a limited number of gas stations, but too beneficial for the respective CSM prices. Let me say this one more time. As a result, the two centers merged under the cap of the Sofia CSM, no damage occurred in terms of additional fuel consumption, depreciation of cars, petrol stations locations. You know, like me, no matter what we claim from the stands, that the huge percentage of the movement of ambulances in Sofia area is actually related to the transfer of patients from the territory of the area to the major hospitals in the city. It is also known as "Pyrogov" and "Pyrogov" and "Pyrogov" and "Pyrogov" and "Pyrogov" and "Pyrogov" and "Pyrogov" and "Pyrogov" and "Pyrogov" and "Pyrogov" and "Pyrogov." Coming to these ambulances in the city and accordingly charging them with fuel is part of the standard process. Nevertheless, in order that there is no doubt about how public money is spent, including in the case of fuel, once again the damage to the budget of the Emergency Medical Centre and the poor ability of the CSM teams to provide adequate assistance for the sake of distance and there has been none. But in order for there to be no concern in both you and me, and in society, is there a problem with the way the money is spent, is there a scheme for this thing, first, I initiated a procedure in which everyone, I repeat, not only the CSM, all the secondary officers with the budget funds of the Ministry of Health, more than 130 in number, enter and at this time the fuel data is collected, in the centralised public procedure at the Ministry of Finance. A framework price is reached, which is public, clear, as low as possible, based on volume and this happens. Until now, until this procedure is completed, I have requested and first imposed administrative punishment on the director of Sofia-City, after which by his order, he already has the relevant cards in each of the ambulances of Sofia-City and Sofia-district, a public contract for fuel supply through a stock exchange was opened on the basis of art. 90, para. 1, t. 11 of the Public Procurement Act. For the contractor of the public procurement company so-and-so. The same company has concluded contracts with the following gas stations: "Lukoil", "Gszprom", "Rompetrol", "ECO" and "OMV." The public procurement thus carried out shall ensure the security of fuel charging. I mean, a massive amount of gas stations, there's probably others, but that's it for now. Following the implementation of the centralised fuel procurement, I hope that better financial results will be achieved for the structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u151	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Raynov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'm glad to hear you've solved the problem, but the problem before the last decision was there. I merely recall that the provision of fuel for ambulances in Sofia area was through a contract with a contract for four years...................... with a contract for four years......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... According to media publications, then ambulances from Pirdop, Elin Pelin, Svoge and so on make courses to Sofia, sometimes to bring patients to St. Anna's, another time to fuel with tubes in the ambulances themselves. I don't agree with the fact that there was no violation or damage. If you look at the cost, ambulance courses, you will find that the real cost of charging ambulances is significantly increased. This decision is clearly ineffective, Minister. Inefficiently proven. Before you invite me to the office to explain to me, explain here to the people: do you continue to claim that it is effective or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Raynov. Minister Moskov, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Raynov, at the risk of insulting you, I'm not inviting you to my office.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u155	Because the other colleagues were invited.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u156	I probably see a reason for that. It's nothing personal. In this regard, there really is not, because the necessary estimates have been made, and without inviting you into my office, I will find a way to inform you of them. Let's just say that the previous contract of the former CSMP is concluded with a certain company. At what prices, what amounts of fuel is spent there.. this is the subject of another conversation. But the number and location of the petrol stations, with which the former CSM Sofia-district has concluded this contract, are one fifth of the locations where the branches of the CSM are based Sofia-district. In other words, there are branches on one side of Sofia from Sofia's collar, which, if they have to perform under the contract of CSM Sofia-district, have to go all over Sofia or tour it to go where there is a chain. In other words, decisions have been made over time that may not have been adequate enough. I hope that the answer, my report on the current situation, satisfies you as an approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u157	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev on the number of procedures financed by the Fund. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u158	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is related to the Assisted Reproduction Fund, the so-called "Fond in vitro." I have been informed that this year's procedures are reduced compared to last year. I tried to get some information from the website of the Fund itself there it is only for the first half of 2015. I don't know why it hasn't been updated, it hasn't been refreshed with figures that are currently covered. Actually, I asked you four questions: What is the number of procedures implemented which are financed by the Fund for the year 2015? What is the number of procedures implemented that have been financed by the Fund since the beginning of 2016? Is the information true that there is a decline in the number of procedures carried out compared to the same period of the previous year and, if it is true, why is it so? Given that the budget of the Ministry of Health contains 12 million leva for couples with reproductive problems, why is there such a decline when there is funding that has been implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Minister Moskov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u160	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ananiev! It's not that stand I can afford, Mr. Ananiev "Dr. Raynov" can joke about later, but if you want, I could explain to you exactly what kind of business, not patient interest, is behind a message that someone has been reducing, that someone has been doing a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-and-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-and-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-and-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-and-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-way-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-way-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a But to quote the facts to get you out of your worries or to specify what could be the causes of our common concern if there is a problem. The number of assisted reproduction procedures carried out in 2015 was 3232. The number of procedures launched for the first quarter of 2016 is 750. From the beginning of the year until 31 March, 746 of these starting 750 were paid, and this is not because the other 4 would not be.. simply not the time, to a total of 2 million. 699 thousand. Ninety-eight leva. In the event of payment of 1 million. 737 thousand. BGN 867. for the same period of 2015. That is, obviously, a higher number of procedures with better funding reported during the 2016 comparative period, which is what there is, as one MP used to say, a reasonable assumption from someone that someone had reduced payment. In the first quarter of this year 1083 applications were adopted, which is 100 more than the same period of 2015. By the end of April 2016, orders for financial and organizational support were received by the applicants with input numbers 29 100 to reach the register, with more than 3000 approved by the Centre in the relevant procedure. At present, payments continue and comply with the commitment under the time limit to pay for assisted reproduction activities carried out. Let's say that for 2014, the Centre planned a budget of 10 million. In view of the increased needs, the budget is 12 million in 2015. They remained 308 from December 2015. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the For 2016, expenditure is set at 12 million, ensuring the financing of around 3000 assisted reproduction procedures. In relation to the reported increase in the number of respondents, I repeat, by about 100 more for the same three-month period last year, from the budget of the Ministry of Health in relation to the restructuring of other items to the Fund will be further translated 2 million for assisted reproduction activities, with which the Centre will have another 14 million, or an increase compared to the previous year by 16.6%, or 40% compared to 2014. By providing more funds for the Center for Assisted Reproduction, we hope that a step will be taken to overcome the financing of some delay in approved pairs with reproductive problems. At the same time, beyond that, a measure of whether the state, the public, is doing a good job, is it only good that we have given 2 or 5 million more than we did last year? We all, as MPs, as an administration, should focus rather on what the effects are, what the real effect of this given money is, as a conversation about the Assisted Reproduction Fund, so a conversation about the Children's Fund and so on, because that we have given 5 million more may not mean anything or could mean anything. Together with the guild of obstetrician gynecologists who deal with this specific branch of medical science, we are in good working order of conversations on clearly constructed additional criteria at the end of the year to be much more precise and clear where, based on which specialists, what equipment, what protocol of work and so on, has the better results. Visible, clearly and accordingly, to direct this apparently increasing money from public finances to assisted reproduction funds, so that the chances of people who apply and go through such procedures are clearly increased, not to go to the fact that everywhere and everyone can reveal something like this with a dubious effect. Because if the Financial Ministry has a questionable effect from a financial point of view, for the people who went there once, this is another type of drama that we all understand what it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u161	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ananiev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u162	Dear Minister, thank you for the data you gave, as I really couldn't find them. The information and the question I asked was because I spoke to people who are subject to these procedures, and they themselves have signaled to me that this year are doing 200 procedures, I think less than last year, which are limited financially, and this is what people are seeing who are trying to have children who want to have children, and after we have provided these 12 million in the budget, as I guess you remember that we at the Reformist Block have asked that this amount be for 24 million because, yes, it is very important to do an analysis of the effect. I think the Fund itself is doing it because in the data it has for the first half of the year it says: seven procedures,371 pregnant, which is 26%, and 450 babies born. So I think that an analysis of the effect is seeing that it has an effect So we also asked for more money because there is really an increase in the number of people who want to have children, but they have some difficulty being made in a normal way, and they come to this fund to help them. For me, it is important to know that the money that has been made available, the 12 million, will be directed towards such procedures, because at the end of the year, when the statistics came out, I mean your comparison with last year, you said: more than 100 applications. There will be more requests, we know there will be more. The question is how many procedures are being done and whether the procedures from last year are compared to that, whether there is a reduction in procedures and at some point it will prove that even these 12 million will not be able to spend it because less procedures are being made. I hope we can also increase the money in this direction because... Before you, the Social Minister was here. The subject of the demographic problem was raised. It's very long and deep, there's no point in getting into it, but it's a problem. And in this way, we can try, however, for the government to have some policy to solve this problem by directing the funds. Of course, with an analysis of the effect, but when, so to speak, there are babies, then there is an effect.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u163	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Here's your coat, Mr. Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u164	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ananiev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I fully share your empathy on this subject. Let me say once again: given that this year, compared to last year, we are financing nearly 17% more, each of these levs goes into such procedures. Otherwise, I am talking therefore about a precision of efficiency, because 2,000 or 3,000 newborns following such a procedure does not mean 2,000 or 3,000 successful procedures. Usually this is a multiple pregnancy, there are more than one child. May all these children be safe and sound! It's a good process. Our school in this regard is good. I ask both you and the audience to support the need for a really clear one for people with such a problem themselves, where, more clearly verifiable statistical way, is the greatest success of the clinic, the relevant specialists, with the appropriate approach, so that people can make an informed choice, and the money that you voted for to really go for a real result.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u165	Thank you, dear Minister. The last question to you is from the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov on birth rates and measures related to it. Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers! Minister Moskov, my question to you is related to the so-called "free birth" and, in particular, I was able to face many significant problems in this area, and I believe that it is extremely important in terms of birth rates as a whole in the country and the fight against the demographic crisis. My question is this: many mothers and their families during the births and stay of the mother in the hospital are urged, obliged to make certain donations. I have encountered several cases, including cases where a child is told: Did you choose a team? Well, I didn't. " You are not yet due for birth. " - I believe that this is a major problem. I also met with the following case: a doctor in a hospital that is registered has a contract with the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), announces that he does not work under the NHIF, and the hospital itself provides two prices. And in one case it is asked how, if a health insurance person goes therefore to a doctor who works in a place that has a contract with the cashier and says: "I do not work with the cashier, what price will he pay for the cashier, or one that is not in the register, respectively, after the doctor himself says that he does not work with the cashier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u167	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Minister Moskov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u168	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Alexandrov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, in the structure of the answers that I am going to give, I have been guided by the assumption that the social security status cited in your question concerns, in fact, health insurance. Yeah. The health law regulates public treatment related to the protection of health. There is a special law in the Health Section dedicated to reproductive health. It established that in providing risk-free maternity, every woman has the right to access health activities aimed at ensuring optimal health of the woman and the fetus from the onset of pregnancy to the age of 42 days of the child. This is recorded. The necessary health activities and complications in the case of mothers threatening the health and life of the mother and the foetus, explicitly included in the scope of medical care in emergency situations organised and financed by the State, are listed in detail. Under the Health Insurance Act in the scope of medical care are health insured persons with included medical care in pregnancy, childbirth and maternity. Pregnant people use free medical services from the NHIF, they have the right to choose follow-up from an obstetrician, and when establishing a risk mandatory by an obstetrician. The parent is entitled to a free choice of hospital for childbirth by directing hospitalization, without limit, and also when they have sought medical attention themselves. The scope and order of Obstetrics aid granted to uninsured women in hospitals was laid down in Ordinance No 26 of 14 June 2007 on the provision of Obstetrics assistance to uninsured women to carry out research in the area of health insurance for persons and pregnant women, and the funding was by transfer of funds from the Ministry of Health and they scrupully paid to hospitals who did this thing. A profile examination is provided and the studies necessary for the follow-up of the pregnancy, as well as obstetrical assistance, regardless of the way of genealogy. Any doctor can direct mothers for midwife care, and the regulation determines that uninsured pregnant women are entitled to free choice in the territory of the whole country of a hospital. The Regulation on the exercise of the right of access, which has been in force for one month now in its new version................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is certain that health institutions that have concluded a contract with the NHIF cannot set prices and demand and accept payments, payments from patients for their medical assistance provided by the package of activities guaranteed by the NHIF budget, and that patients and their relatives cannot make donations to hospitals and hospital-related persons one month before the day of hospitalization and during treatment until the last check-up. This is written by the Council of Ministers, respectively in the regulation, which has been in force for one month. Accordingly, health insured persons are entitled to additional requested services related to the provision of medical assistance. There are detailed lists of these services that hospitals can offer for payment. In particular, the choice of a doctor or team can be stated only after the patient is familiar with his designated doctor, and, respectively, medical professionals. In the same regulation it is written that no choice of doctor is allowed, a team that treats and monitors the patient throughout his stay, that is to say, his appointed doctor. In addition, bans on payment of chaperones to persons up to 7 years of age, as an escort to persons up to 18 years of age, have been declared. In this respect, for the quoted amounts of BGN 1500. And 3,000 leva. It should be noted that the Regulation for the implementation of the right of access sets the maximum thresholds for the choice of a doctor and a team, and the price for the choice of a doctor may not exceed BGN 500 and the price for the selection of a team may not exceed BGN 900. Additional services are stated only in writing by the patient after providing full information about their type and the right to additional services is a right, but not a duty of the patient. The patient is entitled to this right and can only express the right to a valid will to exercise it. In relation to art. 4, para. 2 of the Law on Hospitals the right of choice does not depend on the property of the hospital in which the patient is hospitalized and this can be exercised in both state and municipal and hospital hospitals with mixed or private participation. In conclusion, the legal and regulatory framework in force in Bulgaria regulates priority care for children, pregnant women and mothers respectively, guarantee the right to free access to obstetrics in hospital care facilities for birthers. Any claim for payment and additional payment of these guaranteed services shall be a breach of those guaranteed rights. In this sense, please, if you are aware of specific facts and circumstances proving such violations, be granted to the Ministry of Health immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u169	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Alexandrov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Moskov, thank you very much for taking such measures and for one month there is a new regulation because my question is two months old. I hope you've worked on it before and not caused my question. At any time when I have obtained such information or have been brought to my attention such information after the new ordinance that you have put in place, I will be so kind as to inform you, and I hope, and you will be so kind as to take appropriate measures. But understand that there is considerable concern in people who are waiting for children in view of the fact that most of all, there is one such communication with mothers that is out of the mouth and that there are extremely scary things to hear. It will take time for them to be able to overcome them, as there, understand that a mother is to be left and returned twice by a hospital with contractions and with the question: Did you choose a team? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u171	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Minister Moskov, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u172	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Alexandrov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Until the presentation of specific facts and data about hospital, time, place and specific person, for which respectively the control bodies of the state and the Ministry guarantee anonymity, another thing should not be spoken in this way from the stands of the National Assembly. The possibility that a pregnant woman with a beginning of birth will be returned twice from a hospital until the control authorities do not demonstrate through objective data this is more in the field of folklore. I've worked 20 years of heavy real intensive medicine. There is no situation in a Bulgarian hospital in which an emergency situation, regardless of the moods of society towards guilds or provoked by individual members who have really rotten apples, there are also doctors in the room, there is no Bulgarian doctor to bring back a woman with a beginning of birth. I assure you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u173	Thank you, dear Minister. That concludes the questions to you. Let us thank you for today's participation and move on to a question to Nikolay Nenchev, Minister of Defence, who will answer a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov about the prospects for restoring the Higher Air School in Lower Metropolitan. Here you are, Mr. Antonov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the current model for preparing aviation personnel does not satisfy the growing needs and requirements of modern conditions. In the National Program "Bulgaria 2020" it is written: There is a need for realization of the opportunities for acquiring competence in education and in the Air Force and civil aviation. Such realization could be achieved by restoring the Higher Air School in Lower Metropolis. The conditions necessary for a higher education institution, including military, to exist, are three: first, it is necessary to have a base, second, to have willing students and third, to have sufficient habilitated persons. To these three indicators, the Air Force School in Lower Metropolis meets, including today, these requirements. Dear Minister, the funds that are being set aside at the moment and those that would be separated if the Military School was restored and not organised again would not be greater and different from those who are now being spent. The funding provided for the Military School and the Military Faculty of Lower Metropolis passes through the University of Veliko Tarnovo and they are a secondary and third-stage officer. At the same time, by restoring the Higher Military School, the model of training personnel for the needs of the Air Force will be improved in order to respond to the real need to achieve greater efficiency. In this regard, it is also my question: will you take action on your part towards restoring the Higher Air School in Lower Metropolitan? Thank you. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u175	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Minister Nenchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u176	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, the very fact that this is yet another question relating to the Military School to which I have to answer is quite indicative. These questions come from all parliamentary groups, regardless of whether they are part of the ruling coalition or not, which makes me particularly careful and concerned about them. You are probably referring in your question to the Armed Forces Defense Development Programme, and under this Programme, a number of activities should be carried out that affect aviation education. The professional training and training of civil aviation personnel for the needs and objectives of the European Union and certification of the Faculty of Aviation at the National Military University of Vasil Levski is envisaged as an organisation for training and testing of maintenance personnel. We have provided for certification of flight crew training and air traffic management specialists only for the defence needs, as you rightly mention in your question, but also for the aviation industry and for businesses under the standards of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, the European Aviation Safety Agency, the European Defence Agency and, of course, NATO. There will be a promotion of the training of aviation personnel at the Faculty of Aviation and the National Military University of Vasil Levski and will proceed to the conclusion of contracts and memorandums of cooperation. After the implementation of these activities and validation of the Faculty of Aviation of the National Military University Vasil Levski. As a national centre for the preparation of aviation and technical specialists, the Ministry of Defence will also carry out the analysis in question about the possibilities of the Faculty. If the assessment proves that conditions have been created to change the structure of the military education system, such, I strongly assure you, will be carried out according to your expectations. All senior military schools as basic elements of the military education system are accredited and evaluated by the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency. They have active quality management systems and meet national and European requirements for training specialists in this area. For these reasons, the establishment of a higher military school based on the Faculty of Aviation of the National Military University of Vasil Levski. It is not possible to implement it immediately without covering the educational requirements and to prove financially the economic appropriateness of such a solution. However, I assure you that the government's policy in the field of military education is based on the legislation in force and the strategic documents undertaken, and the assessments of its structure are strictly scientific models to which we will approach extremely objectively. I guess I'll be able to answer that one more time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u177	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Antonov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I have no doubt that you respond well and your desire is in this direction to improve the work with regard to the air force. However, I also want you to believe that the question I am asking you is neither of chauvinistic importance nor of local importance, but is of great importance to the country's air force. Believe that in this way of work, I don't even know if it reaches you, but our candidate students, who are accepted in Tarnovo, I am talking about ours from a Lower Metropolitan perspective in the Air Force, see a trainer at the end of the second year. At this dynamic time, believe that there is no young person who will sign up to become a pilot or a serviceman or anything else that is in this field when he knows that at the end of the second year he will be able to see the trainer and get acquainted at a place with an airport, by parachute, by educating people and so on. We have done accounts in this direction many times and have held meetings with regard to this issue. The funds are no different. A change is needed in one paragraph in the Law on the Armed Forces and perhaps in the Law on Higher Education corresponding to it, everything else has it as a base and it is played out as opportunities. Now we have recently talked about the need to buy new aircraft or second-hand. A large part of the companies that will supply us with these, especially if they are new, aircraft, up to 25 percent of their funds are allocated to trainers, training and so on. Here is another opportunity to increase the Air Force's training resources. This is a real opportunity we're gonna miss if we don't have military school. We have both the practice and the comparison, which is with the Naval School, we just have to apply this moment the model we have with them. I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. I can see I'm running out of time. The very way of recruiting students, including foreign students in this direction, and you will be relieved with them, because the interest of the Air Force is very serious and very great. This military school, along with medicine, that there was also Minister Moskov here just now, are the two higher schools that do not produce unemployed. Everyone who has graduated from medicine and air school starts work before they're finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Minister Nenchev, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u180	Dear Mr. Antonov, thank you for your findings. I share your concern and have done very little in this direction. It is no accident that I mentioned that this project and this idea has the support of almost all the parliamentary groups, something that makes me think and take the necessary steps. On the other hand, the assessment of the Air Force in this sense is positive. However, there is a need to travel a certain path. The Defence Development Program you mentioned clearly regulates that this process cannot happen before 2018. However, we have already held a number of talks, consultations, including scientific conferences, which have very clearly and categorically spoken on this issue. You are well aware that first of all, this Project must be agreed with the Ministry of Education and Science, after which it must be submitted for a decision to the Council of Ministers, of course, the Accreditation Commission, after which it must enter the National Assembly to be approved. It's a long procedure. I assure you, we will do whatever it takes to make this happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u181	Thank you, dear Minister, for your reply and for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to Bozhidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, who will answer first a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova about the activities of the Ministry of Economy for the preparation and implementation of the Targeted Investment Programme in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha-Sakar, the border, mountain and semi-mountain regions. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u182	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! My question is about the activities of your Ministry for the preparation and future realization of the expected investment program in support of the development of Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha-Sakar, border, mountain and semi-mountain regions. We know the program, with a lot of expertise, is ready. In parallel, it is clear in the public domain that the Minister of Finance has not yet given its sanction for its financial security and that it is expected to enter the Council of Ministers. But along with this, here in Parliament, there are many times even from this tribune money being spent on this Programme, and people are waiting. This is good European practice, I welcome this Programme. Here, in the Programme itself, and in the previous session of Parliament's parliamentary control, it became clear that in the different sectors, there is an extremely large amount of preparation also in terms of sub-normative and legislative initiatives, and looking at this whole problem in relation to the backwardness of these regions. It is clear from the expertise that has been described for my constituency for the sub-programme "Rodopi" that it has very strong regional inequalities, that there are no attractive investment fields. We know that since 1989, especially equipment in the economic sector has become obsolete, technology also, markets are shrinking, in parallel with this weak research and development. The results of this are low and uncertain incomes, high unemployment and the high risk of poverty. Therefore, Minister, I believe that in order to avoid these threats and the Rhodope region becoming more remote, to minimize the damage associated with the longer and negative impact of the financial and economic crisis, along with external competitive pressure, it is undoubtedly necessary in this Programme a role is given to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , but also you to stand in the center of the implementation of Strategic Objective One. Therefore, I expect your answer: what does the Ministry in charge of this area do?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Your answer, Minister Lukarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u184	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, the main objective of the Targeted Investment Programme is overcoming economic backwardness, attracting investment and increasing employment. It is through synergy of the various programmes that long-term results and qualitative changes are expected to be achieved to reduce deep intra-regional differences and to create conditions for accelerated growth of districts for targeted impact. The measures provided for in the Programme require a significant financial resource and some of them will be financed by the state budget. The funding opportunities of the various operational programmes and the attraction of private investments are taken into account. As you have mentioned, it should be borne in mind that the Programme has not yet been approved by the Council of Ministers due to coordination of financial parameters. Strategic objective number one of the Targeted Investment Programme "Rodopi" - stimulating the economy, envisions new investments for the construction of industrial, technological and logistics parks, for the market of infrastructure and networks of processing enterprises and for improving the awareness of business preferences established in the territory. Achievement of this strategic goal requires the interaction of the central administration, local authorities and business. The Ministry of Economy plays an active role in the dialogue with business on the ground. There are active promotions and opportunities for investments at municipal level. One of the objectives of the economic policy is the reduction of regional disproportions in socio-economic development. The Ministry participated actively in the preparation of the new operational programmes "Regions in growth" and "Human Resources Development" in the period 2016 - 2020 by proposing the inclusion of special instruments in this field of industrial areas providing infrastructure for potential investors under the Operational Programme "Regions in growth" and opportunities for training of newly appointed employees in the implementation of investment projects under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." Thus, measures financed by EU funds complement investment incentives financed by the state budget. Opportunities for support of the initiatives included in the Programme "Rodopi" has under Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" 2014 The Partnership Agreement of the Republic of Bulgaria as an element of the integrated approach for territorial development provides for addressing the specific needs of geographical areas most affected by poverty or target groups with the highest risk of discrimination or social exclusion. In accordance with the Partnership Agreement, the contribution of the Operational Programme "Innovation Competitiveness" to address the issues raised by the Targeted Programmes for "Rodopi" is indirect by supporting the creation of new enterprises and the development of existing ones, which will provide sustainable jobs for persons, including economically inactive and long-term unemployed persons, the implementation of measures that lead to increasing the incomes of persons and improving their quality of life, applying a principle of equal opportunity when selecting operations and promoting equal opportunities for all, including access opportunities for disabled persons and respect for the principle of accessibility. Contribution to the implementation of integrated local development strategies under the community-led mechanism "Local development" and the Strategy for targeted support of the North-Western region. The contribution of the Operational Programme and the Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" for the thematic objectives, the scope of which are financed priorities, the objectives, indicators and the implementation of the Programme and, on the other hand, the specifics of the identification. Pursuant to the Partner Agreement, the Ministry has defined the Operational Program Innovations up to 5% of its budget for multi-fund funding of the community-led instrument. The participation of representatives of the managing authority in the composition of the Commission for the selection of a local development strategy shall be submitted by local initiative groups. In addition to achieving the Strategic Objective 1, the opportunities for stimulating investment activity under the Investment Promotion Act contribute. One of the objectives of the Law is the integrated countering of negative trends in activity and employment by applying a differentiated approach to the priority promotion of investments in economically disadvantaged areas. In conclusion, I would like to express hope that the Targeted Investment Programme will be approved in a short time for implementation and implementation of the complex measures in this programme will lead to an increase in investment activity and improved socio-economic environment for the inhabitants of these regions, especially the Rhodopes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u185	Thank you. Your line, Mrs. Yankova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, what you have shared is written in the program. I expected to hear from you, you support, you are a team in the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the Programme. In the Strategic Objective 1 there are recorded common things that are extremely important, people expect them and I wish they would not remain lied to. I ask you to answer me. It is written that there will be a package of preferences for business on the occasion of the formation of an active economic space. There are recommended preferential tax rates for local business in the primary and secondary sectors. In parallel, subsidies on interest rates on investment loans are expected to be 50%. A target investment fund is expected. Perhaps that's where you and the business should stand in the center, for small medium-sized enterprises, including interest-free loans. In other words, the entire business preferences package had given local and new employers movement, anticipation for formation in the Rhodopes, but also in other areas for impact of attractive economic space. I am interested in this in dialogue with the Minister of Finance and in the talks in the Council of Ministers as a team that will implement the Programme, what do you foresee and when can be expected? Either we tell people about the operational programs be a team, cooperate or make clusters, or we will say that there are other tools for the attractive economic space. I'd like to share that the results of the children's success rate have come out. Children in the Rhodopes, IV grade, for the fourth year are first in the country in success, and from the 7th grade are second. In other words, there are waking children for these industrial and technological parks, but in order to stay in the Rhodopes, not to go elsewhere, to live the mountain, you have to seriously and responsibly engage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Right on the dodge, Mr. Lukarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u188	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, I fully agree with you. In our dialogue with the Ministry of Finance, we have bet in addition to the operational programmes, and the new Programme for which I did not mention the Operational Programme "The initiative for small and medium-sized enterprises" which provides for the provision of low-interest and fast loans secured by the European financial institutions and which take the risk. Of course, we can also apply other measures, including in dialogue with the European Commission, because this can be seen as state aid, differentiated and reduced rates in terms of the taxes paid by the local business... not only in the Rhodope region, but also in Northeastern Bulgaria and Northwestern Bulgaria. Those measures shall be provided for. We can tell the people of the business in the Rhodopes that there will be synergies between operational programs and what is envisaged by Strategic Objective 1. On the other hand, regarding the period you are talking about, I cannot commit because the ball is in another office, but we are working together and I hope that this Programme will be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u189	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. The next question is from the MP Rumen Vassilev Gechev on strategies and programs for economic development. Here you go, Professor. Gechev, develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Lukarski, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Economy, in Section II of the Minister's Law, art. 5, t. 2, I quote: The Minister sets the strategic objectives and priorities of economic policy within the framework of its powers, organises and coordinates the development of strategies and programmes to achieve them. In this regard, what specific strategies and programmes have been developed and when have they been adopted by the current government? What is the extent of their implementation by the end of May 2016? My fellow Member, I think you will share our understanding that the development of such a system of national priorities and a strategy for their implementation is a mandatory condition for the success of all developed and developing countries. Such common and sectoral strategies have been adopted by the Member States of the European Union and the Member States of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. That is why we expect the Ministry of Economy, in whose functions such responsibilities have been replaced, to coordinate the sectoral policy of the individual ministries in accordance with a common economic policy............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I would therefore like to stress once again: is there a system of national development priorities currently developed by the Republic of Bulgaria? Have these priorities been adopted and when? Is there a strategy and programs for their implementation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u191	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. Minister Lukarski, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Gechev! The strategic objectives and priorities of the economic policy to which our efforts as the Ministry of Economy are aimed are clearly defined in Part III Economics and Growth from the Programme of the Government for the Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2018, developed with the active participation of representatives of the Ministry of Economy. The first objective of the Programme is to focus on investments to develop innovation potential in technological and product niche. The Innovation Policy is implemented by Decision No 857 of the Council of Ministers of 3 November 2015. An innovative strategy for intelligent specialization of the Republic of Bulgaria 2014-2020. The Ministry of Economy is a leading institution in the development and implementation of this Innovation Strategy. This document sets out the development of innovation, research and support for them by the State. The Innovation Strategy focuses efforts on supporting the areas in which Bulgaria has competitive advantages and will create conditions for growth. In addition, as a basis for a comprehensive regulation of public relations in the field of innovation, we have drawn up an Innovation Bill that relates to the formation and implementation of state policy in the field of innovation and the definition of innovation policy at national and regional level. The innovation bill has passed the public consultation phase. Another main goal of the government programme is to increase the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy by implementing a policy in support of small and medium-sized enterprises. Here, as an example of continuity, I will point out that the main document on which the Ministry of Economy continues to work is the National Strategy for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 2014-2020, which has been adopted by Decision No 37 of the Council of Ministers since 23 January 2014 and the Ministry adheres to its objectives and priorities and follows them. In support of entrepreneurship on 11 November 2015, the Council of Ministers adopted an Action Plan "Entrepreneurship 2020" in which the Ministry of Economy is also a leading institution. The plan contains a list of 31 measures, in accordance with the Action Plan adopted by the European Commission "Entrepreneurship 2020 "Renaissance of Entrepreneurship Spirit in Europe." In dialogue with business partners and stakeholders, the Ministry of Economy started working on the development of a Strategy to Promote Women's Entrepreneurship. Often written strategies remain only on paper, but in the case of the strategic documents of the Ministry of Economy this is not the case. For the implementation of the Innovation Strategy for Smart Specialization of the Republic of Bulgaria 2014-2020 and the National Strategy for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 2014-2020 financial resource is provided. Under Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness 2014 " 2020," under Priority Axis 1: Technology Development and Innovation, Bulgarian enterprises can apply for the implementation of projects related to the creation and deployment of innovations. Under Priority Axis 2: Entrepreneurship and growth capacity of small and medium-sized enterprises can apply with projects to improve production processes and develop environmentally friendly productions. By Priority Axis 3: Energy and resource efficiency of enterprises small and medium-sized enterprises can benefit from the advantages of international markets and provide higher added value, introduce practice to increase their energy and resource efficiency. The main focus is on all these measures, in this case, on small and medium-sized enterprises, without neglecting, however, the large ones for which support for innovation and increasing energy efficiency is also envisaged. Until now, under the Operational Programme, I have spoken about, the total amount of the agreed grant under the three final terms of the procedures I have listed is BGN 259 907 023 and a total of 475 contracts are concluded and a negotiated process under the procedure is being conducted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u193	Thank you, Minister Lukarski. Here's a line for you, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u194	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleague Lukarski, honourable colleagues! What we have heard is that Bulgaria does not have a system of national priorities and they are not adopted. What we have heard here, Mr. Lukarski, is that you have separate programmes related to the operational programmes of the European Union. Okay, we've also heard some good news on these separate programs. Isn't it high time to understand the Bulgarian government that Bulgaria cannot rely only on these small operational programs? Mr. Lukarski, this year from the European Union, if we can absorb three billion leva, last year there were three and a half billion, this year there are fewer. After 2020, what will the Bulgarian economy count on? We expect a system of national priorities and we expect the Ministry of Economy to work with the Ministry of Finance and the entire government so that, Mr. Lukarski, you provide internal sources of economic growth, which means that in the development of Budget 2017, we expect you to work closely together and the Ministry of Economy to set goals for the Ministry of Finance and not just to implement the budget. In addition, it seems to me that the Bulgarian government should reconsider, Mr. Lukarski this is in favor of the Ministry of Economy, where is the place of the Bulgarian Development Bank, where is the place of the Economic Forecast Agency, because, obviously, the Ministry of Economy does not fully fulfil its function of coordinating the economic policies of the different ministries and achieving the objectives for economic development of Bulgaria. In addition, for example, to be specific, there is an Innovation Programme. Foreign investment declines, domestic investment declines. The results are rather negative. Competitiveness programmes suppose very nice programmes, only that we are still in line with the European Union. Sectoral policies Bulgaria should have for agriculture, industry. Europe has been talking about reindustrialization for several years. We do not have such programmes. In conclusion, the Bulgarian government is working in a piece and I would like to ask you to answer: does the Ministry of Economy intend to propose with the other ministries a system of national priorities and strategy for the development of the Bulgarian economy with the help of the European programmes, but mainly by seeking sources for development of the Bulgarian economy, within the economy itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u195	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Right to the doppelganger, Minister Lukarski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u196	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Professor Gechev, in your speech you turned the answer to my question a little bit, not to mention, among other things, that you are dealing with data that is frankly false. Neither are we in the European Union's line of use and use of operational programmes, nor are we in the European Union's line of investment - domestic, direct and foreign - diminishing over the specific period. Let's go back to the answer. In fact, your question was about strategic objectives, strategic measures that the Ministry has targeted. I told you a few of these. Apart from the fact that you turned my answer to the funding, and your question was not about funding, it was about strategic measures. I agree with you that other funding should be sought besides European funding, but in particular, my response contained concrete examples of specific measures under a specific strategy... where there is funding from. Of course, we will work together with the Ministry of Finance in terms of identifying and, of course, funding, but this is a matter of a budget which you will also discuss with the Minister of Finance, of course, as opposition. That's what I can tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u197	I thank the Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski for participating in today's parliamentary control. Four questions will be answered by Mr. Vejdi Rashidov, Minister of Culture. The first question is from the National Representative Stanislav Todorov Stanilov on the cancellation of the results of the competition for Director of the National Park Museum. Professor Stanilov, you have the floor for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u198	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! On 8 April 2015 the Ministry of Culture announced a competition for taking up the position of Director of National Park Museum. Two candidates have been admitted. The competition is held by a committee appointed by your order and has won one of the candidates. "Paul Mitkov, who has been informed of the result by letter of 17 July signed by you. In accordance with art. 96 of the Labour Code, the successful candidate must take office within a two-week period. On the last day before the expiry of this deadline on 30 July, Pavel Mitkov was known by a letter signed by Deputy Minister Banov that the results of the contest were cancelled by order of the Minister of 28 July. The reasons for the annulment or the order number are not specified, there is no official message on the website of the Ministry of Culture. Moreover, all the adverts related to this contest have been downloaded from the site. After three-month attempts to obtain official information and the intervention of PP "Custody" to the CST on 30 October and 6 November 2015, the Ministry of Culture replied that the contest was cancelled due to a signal by a group of MPs about violations of the legislation by one candidate for which an inspection was carried out by the Inspectorate to the Minister of Culture and notified the Agency for State Financial Inspection. The Ministry's intention to prepare a new procedure for holding a competition for the position of Director of the National Museum is also announced. There's no information on what the inspection showed to the Inspectorate. Pavel Mitkov was informed that he could appear for participation in the new competition. Since no violations have been detected to the winner, no penalties have been imposed and he is admitted to participate, it remains absolutely incomprehensible why he cannot take the place he has already won. If there were no violations on his part, the Ministry of Culture should have applied art. 96, para. 2 of the Labour Code, which provides for a three-month term for taking up the post for apology reasons. It is clear from the Ministry's letters that the verification was carried out within that period. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Even more incomprehensible is why half a year later a new contest has not yet been announced. The above facts and the lack of specific information give rise to reasonable doubt that it is an attempt to intervene in the work of the Ministry of Culture and to submit a false signal which the Minister freely or inadvertently failed. All this fueled rumours among the museum college for political protection of the unsuccessful candidate for director, who is currently the Managing Director of the museum. The clarification of the above questions would ensure transparency regarding the conduct of the call for office director and, in this regard, please answer me: against whom is the alert given in your letter and what are the findings of the Inspectorate to the Minister of Culture after the inspection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u199	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Dear Minister Rashidov, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Professor. Stanilov, the competition for the position of the National Museum "Shipka-Buzludzha" was held on 13 July 2015. The candidates were notified of the results by letters on 17 July 2015. On the same date the Ministry received an alert on the occasion of a violation of art. 195 of the Cultural Heritage Act by one of the candidates for the post. A file with the Minister's Order of 28 July 2015 was formed. The contest was cancelled. A check has been carried out by the Directorate General for the Protection of Cultural Heritage and a constitutional protocol has been drawn up. The verification shall establish that one of the candidates has not submitted the declaration required by law under art. 195, para. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act. According to the provision of art. 195, para. 7 to the failure to comply with that obligation and in the event of a conflict of interests in judicial order, the employer shall impose disciplinary punishment under art. 188, para. 3 of the Labour Code. Disciplinary liability in relation to this has not been realised. On the occasion of the alleged abuse of money in the museum, the signal was forwarded to the Agency for State Financial Inspection. By letter dated 29 February 2016, the Agency informed the Ministry of Culture that the data indicated in the alert did not constitute a breach of the regulatory act. The clarification of the fact that the alert has been lodged is a guarantee of the lawful conduct of the relevant administrative procedures and of ensuring the necessary transparency in the event of a call for competition. On 6 April 2016 was announced a new competition for the position of the National Museum "Shipka-Buzludja". Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u201	Thank you, Minister Rashidov. Professor Stanilov, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u202	As you can see from the date on which I asked my question, Mr. Minister, and this is April 1, 2016, more than two months have passed and your answer shows that my current question is not quite up to date. Here the weak point is that the competition has been announced very late and the Ministry has waited too long to announce this contest, and no one can answer the reason, but it turns out that the reason is this check that has lasted too long. I do not know now whether the competition has graduated or whether it has been appointed director of the National Museum, but in any case, colleagues from the Federation of Culture Union will signal me the development of this issue. Once again, I would like to say that, nevertheless, the Ministry should not make any effort to answer the questions of the Members of the National Assembly in time, otherwise what it used to say in the Fortyth National Assembly, here, was written on top of it, but was writing a current question. When actuality runs out, it already loses its meaning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u203	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. You have the right to an asshole, Minister Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Stanilov, the actuality of a question does not prejudge the Minister of Culture or any minister. I think this is your job, the National Assembly, and you have to make some decisions about the rules. When there are conditions for a person to be absent or sick or reasons, think of something to postpone. If it's for my own reason, I apologize, but the truth is, I've been sick for a while. That's the truth. About the contest. I don't know why all the MPs are so excited about competitions.! I was accused by the previous government because the Law does not prohibit me from deciding whether to announce a contest or to hold a I'll explain, Professor, why. I was accused by a government that I didn't do competitions at cultural centers, at directorates, at theatres, there I didn't do them. I could have assigned all my family and cousins what happened when I was gone. Did it bother me to set up all the cultural centers? Mr. Stanilov, many institutions hardly work. The Executive Officer, the D.E.S, gives us the opportunity for some time to check if some people can be good managers, managers and managers of the institutions. Many institutions do not work well and not the competition decides the future and governance, but the talented, capable person. So there's gonna be a contest. As for your question, yes. It's the only contest I've ever canceled. Any stain that falls as a doubt on the Ministry, I'll cancel it. They're coming back, there's no political protection. I've been a minister for seven years. I haven't allowed it. Everything will be transparent and, of course, you will be informed of everything that is being done at the Ministry. Nothing's hidden. So nothing breaks the law, Professor. We'll announce, the time will come, we'll upload it to the website as it's done, we'll let you know everything. More importantly, the Buzludja works, the monument is not cracked, will not fall. There we need some money to renovate it and become a little fresher and better, more acceptable. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u205	I thank Minister Rashidov. The next question is from the MPs Stefan Danailov, Mariana Boyadjieva and Emil Raynov on holding a competition for the holder of the position of the National Institute for Real Estate Cultural Heritage. Mrs. Boyadjieva, you're welcome to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it is known how important it is to validate the common planning plans when applying small and large municipalities to finance projects under operational programmes. Several municipalities have already turned directly to us for assistance, as the submitted expert opinion at the National Institute for Real Estate Cultural Heritage common development plans have been delayed for more than a year. There is also a request from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Clearly, there are problems in the way the Institute is organised and managed, which create serious difficulties in carrying out the state regional policy in the field of preservation of real cultural heritage. Problems are probably a sign of his inability to organise and control work processes and take action to optimize them. The staff of the National Institute is extremely insufficient, but no measures are taken to fill and motivate the employees, which is why there are left mostly young specialists. The checks show that expert opinions on the plans were prepared months after the distribution and willfully or inadvertently stay at the office of the interim director Daniela Djurkova, waiting for them to sign and move in due time to the specialists in the Ministry of Culture for specialized opinion and their delivery, according to the Law, to you, Mr. Minister, for final signature. In our question, we have provided you with only part of the delayed cases for a year and more than a year, which create an overwhelming obstacle especially for small municipalities to apply within the time limit to the relevant European programmes. To date, it is known that the Ministry of Culture has announced competitions for directors of 13 state and cultural institutions. We believe that it is high time that the accusations should not be addressed to all those working in the already reduced number of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage, but to verify the responsibility, in our opinion, which refers to their duties as a temporary acting officer. Mr. Minister, our question to you is: is there a date for holding a competition for the holder of the position of the National Institute for Real Estate Cultural Heritage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u207	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Dear Minister Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u208	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Boyadjieva, Mr. Raynov, Dear Professor. Danailov! According to § 120, para. 1 of the Law on Cultural Heritage: Within two years of the entry of the Law, municipalities must provide the Institute with up-to-date addresses, identifiers under the Cadastre Act and the property register of delayed, declared and declared real cultural monuments located on their territory. At present, only a few municipalities have provided the necessary data. Maintenance and filling of local archives, registers of real cultural values is a permanent commitment of municipal administrations. In connection with the implementation of the state strategy for drawing up common spatial plans, the Institute has provided more than 200 municipalities with lists of real cultural values located in their territory. Opinion on the municipality of Tsenovo was prepared and received by the applicant on 10 October 2014, opinions on the municipalities of Medkovets, Alphatar and Aytos were prepared and will be sent to the applicants within a week. The projects are of Lipen Municipality, the projects of Levski Municipality and Samuil Municipality are being processed. The lack of digital archive and the ongoing process of updating the lists of real cultural values are the main reasons for slowing down the process of processing the documents received in the Institute. Jobs and projects of common design plans currently in the Institute will be processed within the next two months. There are contracts concluded, which are implemented by the Institute, such as the maximum period for carrying out search activities, and the study of national cultural values for single cultural monuments is six months, and for the rest of the........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Over 300 projects of temples under programmes funded by the European Union have been submitted to the Institute in recent months. It should be borne in mind that by order of March 2016, an Interdepartmental Working Group with broad participation was appointed, with the task of analyzing the existing Cultural Heritage Act and drawing up a proposal for a draft Law on seizure and supplement of the Cultural Heritage Act by 16 September 2016. With the forthcoming proposal it is possible to change the functions and structures of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. I consider it appropriate to conduct a competition for the Director of the Institute after the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cultural Heritage with a view to complying with the requirements for candidates for the post held with any changes in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u209	Thank you, Minister Rashidov. Here's a line, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u210	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! It is difficult to say whether there can be satisfaction with such an answer, because you have pointed us to several municipalities for which there will already be expert opinions. However, I would also like to remind the people who are watching and listening to us, in fact the general planning plan for the municipality of Tsenovo, which you said was already ready to enter the National Institute in June 2014, for the municipality of Medkovets in July 2014, only for the other municipalities that you quoted.Levski, Alfathar, Aytos, Samuel, we can talk about a slightly shorter deadline that they were submitted in September for the two municipalities last year and December 2015. The problem is serious because these municipalities have serious difficulties when they have to submit their projects under operational programs. In addition, I have already pointed out, when I asked the question, you also commented in your reply that the National Association of Municipalities raises questions not only regarding these projects, but also a delay in updating the lists of real cultural values, projects for restoration, building Orthodox temples with donation money and others. In this sense, this, of course, as your opinion, that the competition should be announced after the changes to the Cultural Heritage Act, will perhaps further delay the existing picture and we will continue to have cases in which months and years are waiting in relation to the provision of expert opinions, which I think is neither in the interest of the conduct of state policy in respect of the preservation of cultural heritage, nor of the work of the Bulgarian municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Right on the back, Minister Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u212	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Boyadjieva! The question of your interest in the competitions is duplicated. I don't know why you're all so excited about competitions, not results.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u213	It's work-related.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u214	He's gonna answer you out of the ordinary to what you're asking. I could not make any changes because there were no more state figures to increase at the National Institute for Cultural Monuments (NIPC), since the time of my friend and, of course, one respected by all of us Minister Danailov. I didn't change even Mr. Danailov's secretary, I didn't change even one person who worked during Mr. Danailov's time at the NIPC, I didn't change the director of the PR, I didn't change any expert, because these are 30-year-old experts who have to produce a product that is specific. With respect to the professionalism of every employee in this Ministry. In this regard, I should not be blamed because, above all, I respect professionalism and then political passions. I work with extremely good experts and I value their work. That there are few experts, and there are 15,000. files, you know, there's no way to process all this rich information that's not just from Alphatar, it's going to Svilengrad. Let's respect the work.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u215	There are seats available, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u216	Mrs. Djurkova does not change the law until the Law changes, because I tell you again that she was appointed during the time of Mr. Oresharski's speech under your government, but she is doing a wonderful job right now and I have no reason to change a professional because I want to do something in culture and not change people. When the Law comes, we will announce this contest and, God forbid, choose one extremely active person and not the director will chase the files. The lack of people, the lack of opportunities to be processed, so we dream that the e-government will come into effect, to decrystallize the Bulgarian society to have quick access to information. Many documents, many responsibilities, the Institute smokes and works with full force, but unfortunately we have 15,000. files, believe me, so I defend the dignity of these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u217	Thank you, Minister Rashidov. The next question is from the MP Vili Mladenov Lilkov regarding the risk of the fortress. Professor Lilkov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Rashidov, I ask this question in relation to the conclusions he made, just ten days ago, one Interdepartmental Commission, which was designed to establish the state of the National Cultural Monument The assessment of the Interdepartmental Commission is not good for the state of the fortress, namely there are problems with drainage, the open stage, roof structures are threatened by collapse. This also provokes a debate at the municipal council just a week ago. There were opinions, of course, there is no single solution whether the municipality would not want to acquire the right of government and the right of property on this monument at all, as the care of the Ministry of Culture is not adequate to the importance of this monument. In this sense, it is also my question: will you order to develop an urgent project for strengthening and conservation of the fortress of Baba Vida and ask the Ministry to release money for the implementation of this project because it is an emblematic monument for the city, an emblematic monument for Bulgaria and more, this is the fortress that gives self-esteem to the people of Vidin? I often ask questions related to the cultural heritage of Vidin, as it is unique in that only in Vidin Municipality and in Vidin only there are more national monuments of culture than in whole areas in Bulgaria. If something needs to be addressed by the state, it is the cultural heritage of one of the Bulgarian capitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u219	Thank you, Professor. Lilkov. Dear Minister Rashidov, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u220	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Lilkov! I am pleased to answer you for a simple reason I do not know why, surely, because I have wonderful friends, because probably the great world artist Jules Paskin is from Vidin, but Vidin is also a wonderful city. In connection with your question, I inform you the following: The Ministry of Culture is an eligible candidate under Priority Axis 6 For December 2016, the announcement of a procedure for the development of tourist attractions under the priority axis is planned. In this regard, a working group was established with an order from the Minister of 3 February 2016 to propose projects for application for financial support under the procedure. The working group has prepared, discussed and adopted criteria for evaluation of real cultural sites, is ready for this. The main selection criteria take into account the requirements of the operational programme and relate to the importance and degree of threat of sites and additional criteria related to the degree of design readiness, the availability of design documentation and the potential for development and concentration of sites. Appreciated the importance of the archaeological real-estate cultural value of the medieval fortress, Baba Vida...................................................................................... The minutes of the work of the expert group shall be approved by the contracting authority. The following is a specification of the sites in the list, according to the budget of the Ministry. The Ministry of Culture will take appropriate action on the development of a technical project for the fortress "Baba Vida" after the definition of the financial instrument and opening of the application procedure for financial assistance under Priority Axis 6 "Regional tourism" of the Operational Programme "Regions in growth." I thank you, not for anything else, to express only sympathy but also concern, but the government, in the face of the Ministry, what the previous term could do is that we have saved from ruining a wonderful architecture. Yes, of course Vidin is a very good, interesting Bulgarian city. It is true what you said there are many monuments of culture. That is why I have offered you my office and again I am proposing to you in front of all our fellow MPs. We are going to make a tour of this whole beam, Mr. Lilov, indeed, because within this programming period of 2015 - 2020 to mark the important, signifying and those who are facing demolition or critical cultural monuments, to sit together, because it is our common concern, to make a list and to work on these priority tasks exactly in this axis. Thank you, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u221	Thank you, Minister Rashidov. Professor Lilkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u222	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. Thank you for inviting us to visit the city and look at all the monuments and their condition. Knowing that Vidinlies will welcome you warmly and I guarantee you that on a careful tour of the city, you will see, of course, many other objects that deserve to be monuments of culture and deserve the attention of the state. I expect an invitation to fix the day we visit this city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u223	Thank you, Professor. Lilkov. And the last question of today's parliamentary control is from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev concerning the status of houses, museums and expositions, coup reflective historical events and leading activists of the Bulgarian Communist Party from the period of communism 9 September 1944. "November 10, 1989, declared criminal by law. Here you are, Mr. Andreev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u224	Dear Minister, according to art. 25 of the Cultural Heritage Act, the order for the creation of museums and expositions is determined by the Minister of Culture. For the creation of museums and expositions, when it is not about cultural values, the law requires, in addition to the existence of public interest and objective and credible coverage of the historical events and the era that are exposed. In the Republic of Bulgaria with the adoption in 2000 of the Law declaring the communist regime in Bulgaria criminal, the activities of the BCP and its leading activists have been declared criminal. Moreover, Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: 2 of the Law explicitly emphasizes that the leaders and the leaders of the Bulgarian Communist Party are responsible for..... and ten serious crimes are reported against the Bulgarian people. In the context of the above, the admission by the state of the creation of museum houses, as part of the relevant regional historical museum, of communist rulers of this era, including the leading activists of the BCP, is perplexed. The most interesting examples are the house-museum of Georgy Dimitrov, also known as Georgi Tarabata, and the exhibition hall and home of Todor Zhivkov, also known as Tato, part of the historical museum. Pravet. Therefore, Dear Minister, please answer the following question: on what basis does the Ministry of Culture, understand the state, allow existence, and I will add to the financing of expositions and museums that promote the activities of these former communist leaders and criminals whose activity is declared criminal and directed against their own people?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u225	Here you are, Minister Rashidov, to answer Mr. Andreev's emotional question. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Dimitrov, Slavov and Dear Mr. Andreev! You always ask me the best questions, to tell you the truth. Sometimes I wonder where all the emotions come from! In connection with your question, however, I inform you the following: museums in the Republic of Bulgaria are created according to the provisions of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, the Law on Cultural Heritage. The building of the house-museum Sofia has constructive problems and is not open to visitors. Owner is the High Council of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. The Historical Museum in Pravets is a municipal museum which is administratively organized by the mayor of the municipality. The home house of Todor Zhivkov was declared as a cultural monument by letter of 12 March 1985. The house is typical representative of the late Bulgarian Balkan type houses typical of the region and is the only preserved residential building from the end of the 19th century in the town of Todor Zhivkov. Pravet. The exhibition is an ethnographic reenactment of the Revival lifestyle of the region with exhibits from the main fund of the Historical Museum of Pravets. The house is private property and is open to visitors with the permission of the heirs. Near the home of Todor Zhivkov is the former reception building of Pravets municipality. Since 2002 the building has been provided to the Historical Museum of Pravets in order to expand the exhibition area and organize temporary exhibitions. By decision of the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Pravets from 2010 it was declared a subsidiary of a museum and a museum exhibit with an exhibition building. The museum complex includes the home of Todor Zhivkov, restored in 1974. The activity of the museum complex is related to the presentation of contemporary archaeological, ethnographic, historical and artistic exhibitions. The Historical Museum in Pravets organizes temporary exhibitions in the building of the museum complex, which are exposed part of the collection of gifts received by Todor Zhivkov as Head of State and by the Bulgarian state. The collection includes paintings, statuettes, masks, works of art and folk crafts and copies of antique objects bearing the marks of the national cultural identity of peoples from all over the world. Such exposures present the traces of the recent past, with which future generations should also be aware. In this regard, the museum performs one of its main tasks related to the preservation and presentation of the cultural values held in its fund. With deep respect, Vejdi Rashidov!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u227	Thank you, Minister Rashidov. Who's gonna make a line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! And I have deep respect to ask you this. The house-museum in question of Todor Zhivkov is obviously praising him and presenting him in a positive light. That's the point. If you don't believe me, ask these people, they'll tell you that's what this is about. [[Laughter in RB]] . That's why they did it. I want to ask you this: did you see in Germany, for example, that there is a Hitler house-museum that tells you that it is a very large architectural value, that it is very nice and that they keep it? Is there something like this in Germany?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u229	Hitler's house is in Austria, not Germany.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u230	Because now you're going to find out that in Germany what's there as a museum of Nazism shows the crimes of Nazism and if there's a house-museum...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u231	Mr. Dimitrov, please don't...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u232	...if there is a house-museum of Todor Zhivkov, it must show the crimes of communism. Instead, she praises him, says what a handsome man he is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u233	Don't get involved and don't include other countries!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u234	These people go and even worship the museum house in question, which shows communism in the wrong direction. And in this Chamber, the Bulgarian Parliament has passed a Law that said that the communist regime is criminal. So, Minister, my question to you is this: do you not violate the Law, allowing such a house to be a museum praising communism? That's what this is about. Nothing more, nothing less. This house-museum praises communism. And if there is no such house-museum to praise Nazism in Germany, it is no coincidence because this regime was criminal, like communism. That's why there are no museum houses like this. Therefore, my hot recommendation to you is to act male and responsible and to stop, to stop the work of such museums, unless they show the crimes of the relevant criminal regime, whether Nazism or communism, to act responsibly. I know that the easier solution is to tell us how these houses had some historical value, surely they do, and it is certainly possible to find Hitler's house with similar historical parameters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u235	Will you use the right to dodge, Minister Rashidov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u236	I'll use the right to eloquence, and I'm human.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u237	And a male.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u238	Mr. Chairman, I probably wouldn't have answered that question if Mr. Dimitrov hadn't asked me a question about why the Museum of Socialism wasn't called the Museum of totalitarianism. Mr. Dimitrov, I'm avoiding something, if there's anyone suffering from communism, it's me. I'm baptized and I'm a cop, I can prove it to you, I'm not a snitch, I didn't take party jobs, and I'm not a party member until today. But history is hard to make. Like it or not, there was a story. And it can't be erased with an eraser, Mr. Dimitrov. And we shouldn't delete. Yeah, there's a Hitler museum in Austria. Soon they sold a painting of him in a fabulous amount. Yeah, I've had dinner at Mussolini's house, which is also a museum type. Don't blame museums and artists. They don't bring ideology. Politicians bring ideology. Don't destroy museums! I was against destroying Georgi Dimitrov's mausoleum. Why? Today I was going to tear up tickets and Madame Tussaud would have made me at least two. From everything we have to make an effect, and the story of no one trying to make a left or right rub it with an eraser. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Because the similarity between extreme communism and extreme democracy is that both forces are destructive. A man who hasn't built one thing has no right to tear down anything. I build museums, Mr. Dimitrov. I don't close and destroy museums. Sorry, this is your problem, if you want to close down the country. [[(Loud applause and shouting) Bravo! (BSP LB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u239	I thank the honourable Mr Rashidov for participating in today's parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u240	And for the lesson!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-10.u241	That concludes parliamentary control and parliamentary week. The next regular meeting of the Forty- Third National Assembly is June 15th, starting at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
