ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear Members of Parliament, today we are holding an extraordinary plenary session with one single item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SELECTED CODEX. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 10 March 2016 with importers Valery Simeonov and a group of MPs, Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs, Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, Miho Mihov and a group of MPs, a second draft of Mr. Ananiev and a group of MPs, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, two drafts of Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs and Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. In the previous meeting of the second vote were adopted by § 6 to § 30, the numbering is based on a report, by importer, with the exception of deferred paragraphs 9 to 11 including the numbering of the applicant there is an additional report submitted. The proposal of the MPs Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs is reported, which is supported in principle, but is reflected in its systematic place in art. 205a, as well as § 31 on the numbering of the importer. This is page 22-23 of the report on colleagues who closely monitor the report. We continue with § 31, which has been reported. This is the proposal of Mr. Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop § 31. The Commission does not support it. The debate is open. There are no speeches on it. Before that, for the procedure, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Some of the texts adopted in the draft amending and supplementing the Election Code do not simply constitute a gross political error, but can boldly be classified as a serious crime, a parliamentary crime [[GERB noise and lines]] compared to nearly two million Bulgarian citizens abroad. In essence, this is a political suspension of nearly two million Bulgarian citizens, a disruption of their natural spiritual relationship with the homeland. If the thesis is correct, the maxim that Bulgaria is where there is at least one Bulgarian citizen who has preserved the Bulgarian spirit and the love of the country, there is no explanation for these Bulgarian citizens being deprived of the right to vote and thus Bulgaria being deprived of its natural spiritual territories. The only sensible thing that the Forty-third National Assembly can do is to immediately end the debates on this Election Code and to go where it belongs in the dumpster of nationalist outbursts in Bulgarian politics. Elections for the President to be held under the current Election Code, to give the initiative of over 500 000 Bulgarian citizens to hold a referendum and according to the results of the referendum to proceed to constitutional amendments to the Election Code, which will not restrict constitutional rights, but will facilitate their democratic realization. From who will vote on the procedural proposal, it will become clear who is involved in this nationalist outburst...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u3	Where were you the other day?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u4	... active or passive. Nothing can be hidden. Please put my procedure to the vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u5	Could you repeat which one, because...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u6	Procedure for the termination of the debates on this bill, in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u7	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the procedural proposal under Article to the vote. 52, para. 2, p. 3 termination of the debates on the item on our agenda. They voted 153 MPs: 35 against 78, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kazak for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u8	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When the Movement for Rights and Freedoms last week, when the agenda was discussed, suggested that this item be dropped, some Members standing in the last row were not in plenary. [[Radio and applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u9	Evala!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u10	When the Movement for Rights and Freedoms on Friday, with its teeth and claws, fiercely opposed and condemned these dark-bessed texts, anti-democratic, which deprived of fundamental constitutional rights hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens, some Members in the last row were not in the plenary. Then, after the rain, a hood comes out with declarations. That reminds me of a saying...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u11	The procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u12	It's too late for a girl's wrist! [[Laughter in DPS.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, loyal to our consistent position, which we have expressed from the very beginning of the initiation of these changes, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, in view of all the huge violations committed in the texts voted and de facto the conversion of this Draft for amendment of the Election Code into absolutely harmful to Bulgarian democracy, we propose that you apply art. 82 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which reads: We propose by a decision of the National Assembly to withdraw the draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code. Thank you. [[Applause from SG to DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u13	Mr. Kazak, your proposal is covered by the ground for termination of the debates on the bill on which a vote has just been held. [[Replys from NG to DPS.]] I would like to remind you that we have 14 importers on the draft amendments and amendments to the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u14	It's a general option.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u15	Including your parliamentary group. There are partly supported, 12 of them were supported by a first vote, based on which the joint report on which the debate and the vote on these texts is currently under way at second reading. By argument of art. 82 of the Staff Regulations - who do you think is the importer to withdraw it here and put it to the vote? Who are you suggesting would withdraw it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u16	May I take the floor?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u17	Yes, you can, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u18	Thank you, Madam President. It is because of this distinction between first and second readings, which exists de facto, art. 82 of the Rules of Procedure provides that two assumptions before its vote at first reading may be withdrawn only by the importer. When we have already passed this stage, only by a decision can the National Assembly withdraw a bill, i.e. to terminate its discussion in a definitive way. This is the correct reading of the text of art. 82 in the second half. So here in this hypothesis it is no longer important who was originally importing the bills. Here it is important that the decision of the National Assembly be withdrawn, that is to say that its discussion should be stopped in a definitive manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u19	Dear Mr. Kazak, I do not share your interpretation of art. 82 of the Rules of Procedure because the subject in art. 82 is the importer. You are right that for the importer there are two possible hypotheses depending on whether his bill is supported until the first vote or after. Once the first vote had passed, we would have had a hypothesis with reference and a legal basis of art. 82 If one of the importers of a bill after the first vote at the moment withdraws this bill, then this provision of art could hardly be applied. 82.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u20	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u21	The first procedure Mr. Mestan was first, then I'll give you an opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! The voting procedure has not been completed. I would like a re-voting of the procedural proposal made, because clearly also from the analysis you have made in the Rules, this is the only really elegant way for the Thirty-third Parliament to spare itself this shame. I do not know what eyes Bulgarian delegations will meet with from now on Bulgarian migrants in Chicago, London, Brussels or anywhere in the world! This crime has already been prepared in the parliamentary committee with the proposal to drop the 32nd targeted multi-mandated electoral district "Forbidden" and Bulgarian citizens know very well who initiated the drop of the 32nd multi-mandated electoral district. It's the behind-the-scenes accomplices and co-conspirators with the Patriot Front. The only way to wash your shame is to support the procedure for ending the debates on this criminal act at the Forty-third National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u23	My fellow Members, I accept, as Mr. Kazak has gone to the stand, that the procedure and the request for revoting is admissible, which is why...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u24	How's that? How?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u25	...I'll give you a chance, too, subjecting myself to a re-election...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u26	Procedure in the manner of conduct which concerns...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u27	Procedure in the manner of conduct that is relevant to the revoting.. Welcome, Mr. Yordanov/Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u28	Because I have shirts, maybe something else. [[Laughter]] Thank you, Madam President. Let's lighten up a bit, but I'm doing a procedure on the way we're running things. I would like to express my disagreement, Madam President, with all due respect to your interpretation of art. 82. There it is said: The bill holder can withdraw it until the first vote is started, and then only by a decision of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u29	But you still have to ask the importer to do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u30	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u31	Who did?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u32	No, no. National Assembly decision! A decision-making procedure of the National Assembly may make any Member of the National Assembly, including you. If the hypothesis had predicted that the importer would be able to withdraw it again, it would have been recorded: the importer then, but only with a decision of the National Assembly. So in the first case, the importer withdraws it without asking anyone, without asking for a penalty, and in the second case, anyone can request such a penalty from the Chamber. Madam President, I believe that in our case it is a procedure for the decision of the National Assembly to withdraw this bill. Moreover, there is a serious argument precisely because of the adoption of certain texts after the summary report, as you said, of numerous bills, how do the texts for compulsory voting be linked to the texts to limit voting abroad? Technically, it is impossible for the mandatory vote to be implemented by Bulgarian citizens with electoral rights living abroad. That is, we adopt in this bill a provision which obliges all Bulgarian citizens to vote [[the President signals that time has run out]] , and then a provision by which we forbid them. My procedure is for a decision to end the debates on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u33	Dear Members of the National Assembly, I am re-voting the proposal under art. 52, para. 2, p. 3 of the Rules of Procedure made by Mr. Mestan to put an end to the debate. They voted 164 MPs: 39, against 86, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, it is unacceptable, when there is a procedure, to make speeches as if they were on behalf of a parliamentary group. Two of the MPs gave speeches during a procedure that is unacceptable! I urge you, when there are speeches on procedural matters, to stop them because we do not have to listen to who loves our southern neighbour more and who fights for the votes there.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u35	The debate is on Mr. Mustafa Karadaye's proposal to drop § 31. The Commission has not supported this proposal. Text reported. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to take part in this text? [[Noise and lines.]] Anyone? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Karadayi and a group of MPs § 31 by importer to drop out. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 165 MPs: 45, against 81, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Karadayi, come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u36	Thank you, Madam President. I'm doing a re-voting procedure. Some of the colleagues failed to vote. I would also like to make an addition, another motive and argument to our MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, with this text, we are actually and de facto repealing the Permanent Central Election Commission. This is exactly what is done with this text, namely the Central Election Commission, for which we have defined that it is a permanent functioning body, its composition was appointed last year before the elections and the distribution was done in proportion to the then-acting Parliament and the distribution of the parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, if you recall, then with some actions and acts of the President of the Republic, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was the most disadvantaged party based on a relative share in the National Assembly. With the texts that have just been adopted, we confirm this rule. Moreover, we do this relativity of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly completely eliminate it, which is also written in the Law. From this point of view, it would be more honorable either to remove the permanent authority of the Central Election Commission and to be worthy and to state it, or not to do with the mimicre violation of the Law and the Election Code again and to remove the relative burden of the parliamentary groups. From this point of view, I suggest a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u37	Colleagues, re-vote. They voted 164 MPs: 45 against 90, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I recall reporting to the Commission. It generally supports the text of § 31 by importer, but its systematic place is in the Transitional and Final Provisions, i.e. the debate on this text lies in the second part of the report, which is already on the attention of the Members of the National Assembly. Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u38	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is to vote separately. 1 et c. 2 of the paragraph, because they concern different things. As you will notice, t. It's one question...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u39	Excuse me, Mr. Slavov, you were in a hurry for the procedure and did not hear what I said: at the moment we will not vote § 31 by importer, because its systematic place is in the Transitional and Final Provisions in the second part of the report, which is of your attention. See where this text is reflected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u40	I heard you, Madam President. Can I finish?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u41	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u42	In that sense, it's my procedure. I agree with you on that. 1 that is systematically reflected in Transitional and Final Provisions, but e.g. You won't find her there. That is why my proposal is for a split vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u43	There is no voting procedure at all at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u44	Then as an editorial proposal, I suggest we vote on this. 2, as it concerns the so-called presidential veto, which we have proposed with colleagues from the Reformation Block, otherwise speaking, the President is not to be a simple administrator receiving proposals from the parties and then appointing the proposed members of the CEC and may, once, if a person proposed as a member of the CEC failed in the public hearing or was not convincing in the qualities shown, be able to be returned once by the President and, if the importer considers it, to propose it again. That's the point of t. 2 And you will not find it in the Transitional and Final Provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u45	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. When the text is reported and the debate on it begins, then I will put to the vote your procedural proposal for a separate vote on the individual paragraphs. However, this will happen, for the third time, in the second report, when we discuss the Transitional and Final Provisions. Paragraph 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u46	Under § 32 "A proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 47 is amended as follows: Art. 47. A voter who is not on the electoral list until election day shall not be entitled to vote. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: ............................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in the Transitional and Final Provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u47	Statements, coworkers? Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u48	Madam President, honourable Members! I suggest that a voter who is not on the electoral list until election day is not allowed to vote. Why am I making this offer? Under the current Law, a voter who is not included in the electoral list until the election day, but has the right to vote, may be listed on this list by the Chair of the Selection Election Commission. The same applies to nationals of another Member State of the European Union. However, you will probably agree, and the practice speaks of the same fact that on election day control is practically impossible. Since election day control is impossible, for which there is much evidence...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u49	Prove it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u50	...the possibility of manipulation is also great. I can give you examples mostly from the big cities when a citizen can vote in the district in the morning and in the afternoon or in an hour or two he can go to the district of Lyulin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u51	Is there such a thing?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u52	Yes, there was such a case as a citizen, by the way, a lawyer by profession, I'm not lying to you. I can prove it, but I don't have the case right now. It's in Sofia. This man was sentenced for voting in two places in Mladost and in Lyulin. I propose precisely to avoid these manipulations, to accept this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u53	Any lines to Mr. Enchev? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Philip Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u54	Thank you, Madam President. My speech will be very brief and it is in the direction that we are still a parliamentary republic, not a presidential one. In this sense, I also support Mr. Karadayi § 32's proposal to drop out. We saw the coup d'état of the President's powers in the election and appointment of later Bulgarian constitutional judges. We have no guarantee that the same will not happen here in the Central Election Commission. After all, we are the National Assembly, and the parliamentary parties that will have relevant parliamentary groups are also in their power to propose members of the Central Election Commission. More or less, the president will always be bound by any political party. From here I can predict his potential future actions, based on our recent history of the current president. I propose and join the motion that § 32 be dismissed. We're a parliamentary republic after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u55	Any lines to Mr. Popov? I won't. Mr. Iliya Iliev wants the floor of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u56	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I also propose that this paragraph be dismissed because there is no guarantee that the preliminary lists will be not only accurate, but there is no guarantee that they will be valid with the exact number of people who have to vote. Why? Because we have many Bulgarian citizens who are registered... There are many addresses where they are registered at 150-200, even more people at the same address. I believe that the preliminary lists, which will at all attempt the mayors and the regional governors to draw them up in advance, I doubt that they will at all be correct in general. There is no way that these committees can identify them in advance and there is no guarantee that they will be accurate. I suggest we drop this paragraph. Further in the proposals there are also several paragraphs that are related to this problem, and we will make our statement on this issue. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u57	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u58	Thank you, Madam President. I intend to make a very brief statement to conclude with a proposal by procedure. In fact, I remind all my fellow Members that, in § 31 and § 32, we are commenting on several proposals concerning the status of the Central Election Commission and concerning the need to complement this Chamber because of three parliamentary represented political forces that do not have representatives in the Central Election Commission. Mr. Karadaye's notation was correct. I take this opportunity to congratulate him on his election as an organizational secretary and wish him a successful and fruitful job.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u59	Ah, that's the procedural proposal. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u60	Outside of congratulations, however, I would like to say that his statement about the CEC was absolutely incorrect. We need to stop this debate whether the CEC is a permanent or erratic organ. Now you see how many defects in his constitution have become clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u61	Sorry to interrupt, Mr. Kirilov. There is no way to stop this debate because you wrote in the report that we would be taking it to its systematic place in the Transitional and Final Rules. So there's going to be a debate, it just doesn't belong here. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u62	I'm merely stating, Madam President. I want to make a connection. I understand your remark not to read the contents of § 151, that is, not to blindly vote, to have an idea of what the development will be in it, but as you rightly noted, since it does not belong here systematically, we should not have the debate at this time either. I make the following clarification: regarding the proposal which I read as non-compliance it belongs to Mr. Velizar Enchev, it is marked and numbered by the importer, the MP Velizar Enchev, as an amendment of art. 47. In fact, this proposal does not relate at all and does not have any relation to the status of the Central Election Commission. But that's how he identified and identified the applicant. There is no way in the context of the discussion to correct his will. Having determined that, this is how we have considered his proposal. But I ask that his proposal, in view of the meaningful difference in the provisions concerning the CEC, be voted separately and finally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u63	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Velizar Enchev for changes in art. 47 The work which he has proposed and which he has defended in plenary is not supported by the Commission. They voted 140 MPs: for 7, against 94, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs for the dismissal of § 32. The Commission does not support this proposal. The debate will take place later in the Transitional and Final Provisions. 140 MPs voted: 36, against 74, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u64	Proposal by the National Representative Velizar Enchev: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Art. 49, para 1 is amended as follows: Art. 49. (1) When holding elections for municipal councillors and mayors, MPs, President and Vice President of the Republic, no other voting certificates shall be issued. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u65	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Enchev's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 137 MPs: 18, against 86, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u66	Paragraph 33. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u67	Statements, coworkers? Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, this paragraph proposes giving the Central Election Commission the exclusive power or the members of the CEC to assess when a absence is justified, when it is not, and when there is a accumulation of factors to trigger an early termination of a CEC member's term of office. This is unacceptable because, you know, the members of the CEC are representatives of different political forces, there are clashes between them, there is opposition and thus cannot be guaranteed the objective nature of the assessment of whether or not a member of the CEC has been absent for respectable reasons. It is no coincidence that the current text does not give such a right to the members of the CEC, and it is defined in general, i.e. a maximum degree of objectivity should be guaranteed when applying this text. That is why we have proposed that this clarification be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I close the debate and put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 26, against 71, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 33 which is fully supported by the Commission and becomes the relevant paragraph in its report. They voted 133 MPs: 109, against 23, abstention 1. Paragraph 33 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u70	Proposal by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: screated § 33a: ............................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 the following amendments and 1. In para. the fourth sentence is replaced by the following: 2. A new para is being created. 5. In the absence of the necessary majority to adopt a decision, a decision on rejection is deemed to be subject to appeal under the Code. Upon revocation of that decision, the Central Election Commission shall issue a new decision which shall adopt by a majority more than half of the members present. 3. Previously on AMC's... 5, para. 6, para. 7, para. 8, para. 9th para. 10 becomes para. 6, para. 7, para. 8, para. 9, para. 10 and para. 11. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with a corresponding numbering: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 4 sentence 3 is created: "In appeal of decisions of rejection, the Supreme Administrative Court shall rule on the substance or return the file with binding instructions on the application of the material law.'
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u71	You have the floor to speak, Mr. Haytov. After him. "The People's Representative Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the proposal that we have made with our fellow Members in our parliamentary group, this is what we are talking about. It lacks and there is no political dispute, there are no elements that normally cause particular interest, and it is purely procedural and it concerns the appeal procedure against the decisions of the Central Election Commission before the Supreme Administrative Court respectively. As colleagues know, the competent department which is pronounced is the IV department of the Supreme Administrative Court. With our proposal in retrial, when the court has returned the file, the aim is not to have that requirement in the first examination, namely a qualified majority. There are cases, honourable Members, where not once, not twice, but four times the same case has been considered by the CEC, it has been returned, appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court and, note, only because the Central Election Commission has not considered it in that Chamber, which requires the Law, namely two thirds. My proposal, and those that I have made in subsequent paragraphs, is precisely to have one saving, one procedural economy, not to have in vain rotation of the turnover: an appeal, a decision that again does not bring about any solution. All this slows down and torments the electoral process instead of the parties being involved in their main actions. Mr President, and in the light of procedural savings, in subsequent paragraphs, I have also made similar proposals, and I will probably not waste the National Assembly's time on the same reasons again, so, honourable Members, I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u73	Does that mean if they don't support him, you're pulling out next?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u74	No, it doesn't, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u75	- What's the line? I won't. Speech "spoken by the public representative Chavdar Georgiev. [[Reply from MP Chavdar Georgiev.]] You're giving up. Are there any other statements? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal of MP Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 19 against 20, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new relevant paragraph on its report, together with its respective content. Vote 109 MPs: 93, Against 2, abstention 14. The new relevant paragraph, together with its contents, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u76	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number. Paragraph 35 "A proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: In § 35 t. 1 to be The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u77	Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u78	Honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr President! In relation to § 35, which refers to art. 56 of the Election Code, where the duties of the Central Election Commission are regulated, which has an obligation to train municipal and regional electoral committees, including to provide methodical guidance for their activities, the proposals provided for these trainers to be outsiders outside the Central Election Commission. From this point of view, Members, we have made the proposal to reject this paragraph because, in the Election Code, we have entrusted obligations to the Central Election Commission, which are described in full. One of these duties is also training of the respective electoral committees. Externals to be trained should still be taking training at the Central Election Commission. Moreover, the practice of the last twenty-five years shows that even the trainings of the Central Election Commission are not sufficient and it usually turns out that municipal or regional electoral committees are not sufficiently trained, and with this type of intermediate units the final result is not known to what extent intermediate units or election committees will be trained. Moreover, colleagues, who is responsible, including for the training, including for the methodological guidance regarding the election and election process? From this point of view, it is our proposal that the Central Election Commission be responsible, including for trainings, and not to hide behind various external entities, regardless of how they will be named. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Karadayi! In principle, I agree with much of your logic, I would like to point out that, as importers, we have made this proposal mainly in view of the following: electoral training is extremely insufficient. This is a fact that for us is one of the serious and fundamental reasons for the problems in the electoral process, including in all elections back in time. The Central Election Commission can't train effectively. That's the truth! Here I do not want to personalise with regard to the members of the CEC, nor do I want to concern this authority, which was created by this Election Code. There is no way to train effectively, so we have offered to have the opportunity to assign this work to experts who have proven their qualities, knowledge and competence in this matter. To be able to attract them by criteria that they consider, to require the highest standard of training and to be as massive as possible this training. We have no doubt who is responsible. The Central Election Commission is still responsible for the success of training campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line supplier Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Karadayi, I hope you will consider your proposal and withdraw it for two very simple reasons. Firstly, it is very clear to you that the composition of the Central Election Commission is strictly defined, i.e. even if there is a desire that it physically cannot carry out trainings and at the same time hold meetings, make decisions and so on, which I am sure you know well. What fellow Member Kirilov should have said more clearly in his reply is that the experts who appear to be outsiders of the Central Election Commission may actually be the administration of the Central Election Commission. They are not members of the Central Election Commission, but they serve administratively all this activity anyway, i.e. people, proven experts, to whom with these changes we give the opportunity to carry out extremely qualitative and qualified training, which should be done. I think you will understand this and will withdraw your proposal because it is a better way to carry out training. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye, for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, you said that the Central Election Commission cannot train effectively. The trainings, the content of the trainings is the implementation of the Election Code. This is the content of these trainings, if anyone is not clear, to say it. We say: The Central Election Commission cannot train effectively, but someone else, outside the Central Election Commission, will train effectively. In the Law we have recorded the general supervision of the implementation of the Election Code is the CEC and someone else will be more effective in the training externally, but then, subsequently, for actions of municipal and regional electoral committees again the CEC will speak and pronounce on their acts, but we say that it cannot effectively train them. We will take the best experts "The Central Election Commission" should train them, because it is also assumed by this Law that the Central Election Commission is the best experts in implementing this Law. The best experts to take, first, the CEC must train them, and subsequently, colleagues, after they train the regional or municipal electoral committees, their decisions will still be appealed in the Central Election Commission, that is, their possible, say, incorrect actions from improper training will still come to the CEC. From this point of view, I couldn't accept that logic. Mr. Bayraktarov seems to know the election process well. There's nothing I can say to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Any other speeches? National Representative Chavdar Georgiev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u86	Mr President, honourable Members, we will make a mistake if we exclude members of the Central Election Commission (CEC) from participating in the training process. And now it is possible to attract external experts into this work. What's the problem?! Let the current text remain and the CEC have the opportunity to participate in this process, because ultimately training means handing over the authentic will of the decisions of the CEC to the following committees and members of the committees. What other external expert will interpret and transmit the content of the CEC decisions to the members of the committees? If you insist that members of the CEC be excluded from this process, excuse me, but then I doubt and believe that you actually want to replace this body with unclear entities, such as external experts. You just want one body to be responsible and someone else to do the work and essentially replace its powers, replace the subject of the electoral process. Therefore, I ask you not to support what is being proposed. Let's keep the text to date. There is an opportunity for external experts to be attracted to the current norm. By the way, this is also a practice in the work of the CEC, as far as I know. I beg you very much not to make any further mistakes and make a mess! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u87	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u88	A very short line, Mr. Chairman, because I feel that my colleague Georgiev has not looked at the specific texts. I specify the following: at present the CEC has no right to make a training unit of any other person other than the members of the CEC. The text says the following: the CEC shall establish a training unit by the members of the Commission. We propose to fall by the members of the Commission and remain: the CEC is setting up a training unit. The CEC is creating it! They will say: there are Commissioners, but we have invited the experts professor this, the one and so on and a wider training unit is formed. Once again, it's the CEC's responsibility, the management of this process is the CEC's. Quality and efficiency guarantees must be borne by the CEC.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, in the last elections, this was one of the major problems which, if we can partially resolve this proposal, we must do. The problem was precisely that the Central Election Commission failed, thanks to such restrictions, to conduct sufficient trainings of municipal electoral committees so that the same practice could be applied everywhere and municipal electoral committees were aware of what they had to do on election day. You remember what it came to. It reached the end of the night until 3:00 p.m., until 5:00 p.m., people without food at the Sofia Municipal Election Commission. I think that we should go exactly in this direction, and we shouldn't make the same mistake again, because only fools repeat the same mistake twice. We must ensure that the Central Election Commission is able to select different teams of trained and well-prepared people to train municipal electoral committees or, accordingly, regional election committees in national elections to implement the Election Law in the right way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Is there a third line? Here you are, Metin Bey.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Georgiev, in fact, it is here that importers desire to spend some money, to hire some teams designated by them to do these trainings, and these teams, say, 20 or 30 specialists, or five professors of Constitutional Law, precisely to receive these fees. As we said before, in my opinion, this is one option that aims to make the election process more expensive. We don't have to go that way. We must let the CEC do its job because, as they said earlier, it is the CEC that bears direct administrative and political responsibility for the proper conduct of the elections. Now what do we get? We'll set up some teams, hire some teams, spend some money, and finally the CEC will come out of the water dry and say: the training is done by certain teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u93	Thank you, dear Metin. Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u94	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I will start backwards. Dear Mr Metin, I take it that I have not looked at this point of view of the process as well. That's probably true. Perhaps it is intended to spend some extra money on specific people. But let us not suggest maliciousness in action. As far as this is concerned, colleagues, whether or not there is a possibility now. I repeat, and now there is an opportunity for the CEC to attract experts, including training. The text now says that the CEC should organize by its members a training unit and nothing more. And this training unit must organise and conduct the training of the members of committees. When we say "organization and implementation" means that in the process of organization and implementation external experts can be used and this is practice. I was a member of the CEC and I know what the practice is. I'm asking you very much not to mess this up! And now it is possible to attract external experts. Let the CEC be obliged to carry out this process, let the CEC have the opportunity to control the conduct of this process through direct involvement of its members. We must not exclude members of the CEC from the training of committees. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u95	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 15 against 57 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 34 and 35, which shall be fully supported by the Commission and shall be placed in its report as appropriate paragraphs. 90 MPs voted: 79, against 10, abstention 1. Paragraphs 34 and 35 by importer have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u96	Under § 36, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Danail Kirilov, which the Commission supports in principle. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 36: 1. 10 " 15 " incl. They're dropping out. 2. t. 16 is going to be t. 10 and amended as follows: ..16. They're creating a t. 48 It's 48. entrusts to the Directorate-General of the GRAO in the MRDP the verification of the lists for additional entry of escorts, whether one person has accompanied more than two voters in the same electoral section and shall determine the order to carry out the check; c. 49. implements control and methodological management of the RIK and OIC in the production of referendums and other civic initiatives in compliance with the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government and under the Code; T.50. adopt methodological guidelines for the activities of the RIK and the OIC in the production of referendums and other civic initiatives under the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government under the application of this law and the Code. It shall draw up templates for the production of national referendums and national civic initiatives and indicative templates for the production of local referendums and local civic initiatives; T.51. define the form and structured electronic form of signatures to support the request with the national or local referendum issues or with the signatures through which national and local civic initiatives are implemented; T.52. approve the forms of declarations under this Code; t.53. validate the templates of registers led by the electoral committees; T.54. implements other powers in the preparation and production of elections, referendums and other civic initiatives under the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government and under the ZMSA. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 21 after the word "Bulgaria" the Union is replaced by a comma and after the words "Vice President of the Republic" is added another number in the ballots of the parties and coalitions in elections for municipal councilors and mayors. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 26 the words "decisions" and "resolutions" shall be deleted. 3. A t is created. 26a: 26a. examines all complaints against decisions of regional and municipal electoral committees and sectional electoral committees outside the country; on the election day it shall be decided within one hour of receipt of the complaint or signal and before the end of the election day; 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 27 is finally added and published on the Commission's website. 5. A t is created. 27a: 27a. complete the administrative criminal proceedings initiated after the expiry of the term of office of the Regional Election Commission; 6. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 32 the words................................................................................................ 7. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 39 words at 20.00 shall be replaced by.21.00. 8. A t is created. 48: It's 48. adopt rules on the application of the Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u97	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As a procedure, I suggest t. 1 et c. 7 to vote separately from the rest of this paragraph. ) (a.k.a. 7 where it concerns the completion of the election day, as is at stake here, not to be as it is at the moment 20,00 hours, to be at 21.00 hours. I think there is also a will in the ongoing talks to maintain the current state, not to artificially prolong the election day by another hour. I think it is clear to all of us that this will make it extremely difficult for all the sectional committees and in general all the committees on election day for announcing and counting the results. It is very likely that people who are already traditionally hanging at night in different halls have to sit even longer. Keep in mind that by 9:00 they will already be quite tired when the election day will end and still have to start opening the polls, counting ballots and so on. So my suggestion is t. 7 to drop out or not to back her up. And my procedure is this. 1 et c. 7 to vote separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u99	In case you don't drop t. 7. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? The People's Representative Dimitar Delchev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, the Commission proposal proposes to add the power of the Central Election Commission to draw lots for election numbers for municipal councillors and for local authorities. As you know, so far, the order has provided for this lot to be drawn by municipal electoral committees, with in each municipal electoral commission in the territory of each municipality being given a different number to the party or coalition because of the fact that there are many parties involved in various local coalitions on the territory of the country. As there was a proposal to drop local coalitions as a whole and in the course of the talks and the debates it became clear that this solution is bad and local coalitions remain in the Election Code, I also propose that this remnant, which was related to this issue, should also be dropped for one reason. When national numbers are introduced for local elections, it will automatically turn the campaign into national. This will enable certain parties, especially those parties that participate in local elections, rather than a coalition, to advertise from Sofia, from the national air the same number throughout the country, no matter who their candidate is in Berkovica or in Kostenets or in any other settlement. That is, this text envisions the campaign for local elections to become a national campaign without regard to the candidate and without regard to local ideas and concepts. We in the Reformation Block are not taking this approach. In addition, it was seen that the possibility of the parties to associate with different candidates, behind different ideas in the specific municipalities is good and they do so. With some exceptions, where business parties along the sea associate to broadcast business candidates everywhere, in all other places in the country patriotic, reformist, European and other ideas found different forms. Such a decision would distort local campaigns in local elections. I therefore also join my colleague Slavov's proposal to vote separately. 1 in which is written this rule, etc. 7, in order to be able to reject them in accordance with the decision taken regarding the preservation of local coalitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Delchev! I object to your interpretation of the possibility for the Central Election Commission to hold lots central to the registered political parties that will participate in the local elections. I would say that your arguments support defragmentation, support the errors in voting, support the introduction of the voter into error because the large nationally represented parliamentary parties involved, not to say all 265, but in the majority of municipalities, are interested in a single common identification. That rule doesn't make it difficult for the little ones. The small ones, if they want to participate in even three municipalities, there is no problem to also register and participate in the drawing of such lots. In addition, in any case, it minimizes costs and benefits the clarity of the voter. I will not object on your proposal to vote separately. I am very surprised that Mr. Slavov spoke on the phone, but he made the proposal for a separate vote, I simply note for both the hour and the lot, because the Supreme Administrative Court annulled the ruling of the Central Election Commission in this sense on a procedural basis and not on a substantive basis. Ask yourself: who supports the status quo? Who supports the status quo? Who doesn't want a gram change in class, a gram change in lots?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line supplied by the people representative Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think the national number is better, because in the end I will give you an example from the elections this year in the district of Kardzhali with seven municipalities and seven different numbers. When a national campaign is being made and when the presentation of mayors in the district city is made, it is so that seven different ballot numbers should be spoken, which very much confuses people in settlements. The good thing about the national campaign is that there is a single number and there is virtually no obstacle to municipal electoral committees, as they have done in previous years, after downloading the numbers at national level, from there to regulate and withdraw the numbers at local level. So I fully support our proposal for a common number at national level. The other proposal, which is to shift election hours from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m., is very difficult in this period of time, because there are no people who go to vote or they are very few. Separate transportation of the members of the committees at very early hours, because it is necessary for the people involved in the committees to be up at 3:00, at 4:00 and at 5:00 they must be in the electoral section to open at 6:00 p.m. the election section. I think it's more convenient for both the committee members and the voters themselves, and even more the election day is on Sunday. When the weather is good, people go out, walk and march and various events, and the extension by one hour in the afternoon time cut, I think it's the better option. I'm telling you this from a practical point of view.. unlike you colleagues who have not appeared so much in elections, believe us, this is indeed the practical experience.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u105	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. Third line please, Mr. Andonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My line is to Mr. Slavov regarding the length of the election day for 20 hours or 21.00 hours. I think the reasons that Mr. Slavov applied for inconvenience, which would be created on the sectional election committees, are quite untenable. Elections are made for voters, not for committees. Furthermore, in this way we would provide more time for the active layers of the population to come home from trips, from weekends and so on to exercise their right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u107	A hole, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u108	Madam President, thank you very much. Of the two lines that were in my speech here, I exclude the third line, which was in another speech, but from the two lines of my speech, I understood and confirmed my suspicion that the idea behind this text is a one-one concept, one-one-one statement, in the local elections to make a national campaign. No, Ms. Karayancheva in local elections are doing 265 local campaigns. This with the national number let everyone understand it, settles two parties, the second would give me a line, but refused this settles GERB and DPS, which almost everywhere compete outside local coalitions. Almost everywhere they race on their own. This does not settle all the others who are in a third or half of the country in local coalitions that cannot advertise from the national air 200 different numbers because they will confuse voters. When we do local campaigns, I really hope that we do them with the idea of choosing individuals on the ground and getting behind some causes, which requires a different number, going on the spot and talking to voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u109	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u110	You were mentioned by name? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u111	Dear colleague, of course the campaign for local elections is conducted on the ground, it is conducted with a message to the people, it is led for majority choice. From this tribune and from the experience we have as the largest political party, I would advise you to work on the ground, make structures in all 265 municipalities, and then you will see how much easier it is to work. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u112	There's a word for it, Mr. Mithat Metin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u113	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u114	I announced the statement, then Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Regarding the debates in the Legal Committee, most of its members united on the possibility for the Central Election Commission to choose a single number for the parties. Honourable Members, although in this case we are commenting on a single party number for local choice, it is actually a national campaign. Every big party with traditions such as the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, although it appears at local elections, the appearance of local elections has the character of a national campaign. Why? Because we in all the municipalities where we appear, even though we appear in different municipalities, give uniform messages. These messages are of a national nature. The other big parties also appear with such big messages, with big slogans. On the other hand, as far as an hour's delay is concerned...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u116	Forward.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u117	...this is also done with the possibility of better planning the election day. So we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u118	- What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u119	What you have said, my dear colleague, is not true. This is not about slogans or slogans or a number of structures in the state, but it is about equality during the election process. Local elections are major. I do not want when they vote for Mr. Iskren Veselinov in Ruse, to tell them: Number 10, because Karakachanov is there. They don't vote for me, I'm not going to be the mayor of Ruse Municipality, but someone else. When we accept the hypothesis that parties that have registered and have such a policy to play independently have a single national number throughout the country, the hypothesis for other parties is not advantageous. Because it's not equal to having a national campaign with No. 10 or 200 municipalities to have 200 different numbers, or in most of them to have different numbers. Here's the inequality. Moreover, this article, which is now to be voted, was set out in another text that there are no local coalitions. Only there will be. Therefore, it is not equal for one to appear throughout the country with one number, but other formations that make a coalition - no, because in the end the purpose of the local choice is to choose the best, not to measure your party electorate. That's how I understood Mr. Delchev's statement just now, where you're making a line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u120	Second line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Metin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u121	I agree with colleague Karakachanov that when it comes to local elections, the majority element is extremely large. Colleagues, look, from the experience we have in the last twenty-five years, understand that, as with any major activity, this is about proper planning. We have encountered in our practical experience when local elections on the 10th or 15th day cannot release posters, brochures, because there is a problem with printing advertising materials and so on. Yes, I agree, there will be local coalitions, but there are large national parties. It's different from the weight of the organization. For example, a local coalition that appears in the municipality of Hicks, or a party that from 265 municipalities appears in 265 municipalities. This is about a big planning and a big organization. This actually relieves the voter himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u122	Any other speeches? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u123	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u124	Thank you, Madam President. I think enough has been said about this paragraph, so I would like to call off the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u125	A reverse opinion? Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u126	Madam President, honourable Members! On the contrary, I think the debates are just beginning. We are adopting extremely important texts which define the powers of the Central Election Commission. You putting in the procedural guillotine so that all parliamentary groups can't take the attitude, to put it mildly, is incorrect. Therefore, I am making a reverse procedural proposal to proceed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u127	Colleagues, a procedural proposal has been made to end the debates on this paragraph and vice versa. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 116 MPs: for 103, against 11, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Procedure, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u128	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I ask for a 30-minute recess.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u129	Is there a request for a re-vote? I won't. The debate on the paragraph is suspended, meaning the debate is closed. A vote is coming, but this will happen after the interruption that BSP left Bulgaria requested. Twenty minutes off. We'll continue at 1:00. I would like all Members to be precise, because immediately after the interruption, we begin with a vote. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for interruption is up. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. The hearing is ongoing. Debates closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote the proposal of Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support this proposal. Colleagues, we are voting on an unsupported proposal. They voted 115 MPs: 32, against 62, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. There is a proposal made by Mr. Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs for § 36 by importer. The Commission does not support the proposal. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 122 MPs: 32, against 49, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. According to the Commission's editorial proposal for the version of § 36 by importer in the Chamber, there is a procedural proposal: i.e. 1 for changes in c. Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 13). 57, para. 1 et c. 7 for changes in c. 39 of the same Article and paragraph to be voted separately. I shall put the motion to the vote. 1 et c. 7 to be voted separately and against the other points separately. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 138 MPs: 56 against 36, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u131	Madam President, there were people entering the Chamber. Furthermore, I do not know if everyone understood that here we vote to vote separately these points over which there were disputes, namely to have a single number of local elections and the election day to take place at another time, to start later and to end by one hour later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u132	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 145 MPs: 59 against 40, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 36 by importer, in the version of the Commission, with the corresponding renumbering of the paragraphs. We are voting on this report. Vote 149 MPs: 101, Against 34, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. First negative vote, Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against the whole § 26 although you did not accept the proposal for a split vote on item 26. 1 et c. 7. In practice, I voted against................................................................................ 1 and.............................................................................. 7, because I say that all candidates, regardless of the type of choice to be made, must have an equal start. In practice, this equal start, which should be guaranteed by the Election Code, here are deprived of these candidates from this equal start, because those parties that have sufficient finances, those who have a state subsidy, they will have one very big advantage over all the other parties, because they will have the possibility of their campaign being centrally financed by the central media. This happens with a single number for the whole country. This puts at an absolute disadvantage the candidates of the types of elections, especially for municipal and local types of elections. In addition, it is a prelude to deprivation and limitation of the possibility of creating local coalitions. Secondly, I voted against the elections, to extend the election day, at 21.00 it to end. You know that this will be in the small hours of the day, when the possibility of changing the election result, forgery will be much greater, when people will be tired, when again the people who are in the polls will have to hang for hours and all night before the municipal, district or the Central Election Commission. This text reaffirms and proves what those in charge want to do a code of their own personal use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Another negative vote please, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted against the text proposed by the Commission because, honourable Members, as I have said in the Commission, we are simply confusing the Election Code instead of rationalising it and making it more effective. You have not accepted our proposals, which were in connection with the referendums, in relation to the control that is being carried out. Why didn't it become clear? You have adopted some rules that lead only to the conclusion that you like to have full central control over the entire process, to conduct the elections in secret domains, so that there can be complete manipulation. That's what you like! Why, dear colleagues? If we go down this path, the entire Election Code will only go wrong and become a mess that then cannot be implemented effectively. You are putting a chaos in the upcoming elections by legislative means and let this be known from now on. For this chaos that will come, the ruling majority will be responsible.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u136	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Is there a third negative vote? I won't. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman! Proposal by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: ..created § 36a: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same Art. 58. (1) The decisions of the Central Election Commission under art. 57, para. 1, t. 5, t. 6, p. 10, t. 11, p. 12, t. 14, p. 15, p. 17, p. 25, t. 34, p. 45, may be appealed to the Supreme Administrative Court through the Central Election Commission within three days of their announcement. The Central Election Commission shall immediately forward the complaint and the file to the court. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Statements? People's representative Yavor Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, again. I say again because about 40 minutes ago I defended a text regarding procedural behaviour and procedural savings in appeal of acts of the Central Election Commission. We have tabled together with our parliamentary group's colleagues two more of them outside the one we are debating at the moment and my proposal, and I ask for your support, because, once again, this is about a clear procedural clarification of behaviour when we are not satisfied with a decision of the Central Election Commission regarding the ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court. There's no political argument. There is one clearness, one clearness of a perfect procedural behaviour, which is why I ask you to support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u140	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of the upcoming vote, I ask for a name check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u142	Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Methodiev - here Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - absent Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - absent Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Additionally recorded: Borislav Iglev, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Ilian Todorov, Atanas Toshkov, Menda Stoyanova and Nayden Zelenogorski. We've got a quorum, we're continuing the hearing. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 9 against 30, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. Dear Mr. Kirilov, continue with the report a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman! The Commission proposes to set up a new paragraph....................................................................................................... [[Reference between the rapporteur Danail Kirilov and Chairman Dimitar Glauchev.]] Honourable Members, in view of the previous votes, this paragraph should not be supported: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59, para. 1, t. 1 is added at the end, with the exception of the multi-mandated electoral region.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u144	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This paragraph actually concerns an electoral area abroad. I understand Mr. Kirilov's famous reservations, as we have previously actually voted on a text with which this paragraph, if we support it, could come into conflict. I think that if we decide to create an area abroad, we have supported such a solution in the Commission, we propose to the National Assembly to support the establishment of an area abroad............................. we could easily go back and correct this contradiction. Moreover, further in § 100 and in a number of other paragraphs you will see that the Commission regulates the establishment of this area abroad, including providing for how many mandates to be in it and so on. That is, we will simply follow the report, as has been drawn up and supported by the Commission, and we can very easily correct a previous misunderstanding, all the more so that this will also enable us to correct the problem of the sections for which, as I understand it, the Conference of Presidents has previously reached a certain agreement and agreement to also be corrected. I call on you to support him and to correct this misunderstanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u147	We strongly object to this from the Party of Ataka and other similar, related, perifrazed and so on proposals to this effect. Bulgaria does not need a separate electoral area abroad. First of all, it is not clear who will be chosen from there... Excuse me, whose account and how they're going to go around their electoral district. Obviously, those who offer it have in mind that this electoral area will be concentrated in one country and it is located southeast of Bulgaria. You want to give the Turkish secret services the opportunity to make their own list and to bring the Islamist neo-Osmanist Party DOST into Bulgaria. You want, gentlemen of the Reformation bloc, you are already related to an Islamist party, that of Korman Ismailov, you want to turn the Bulgarian Parliament into a Turkish Maglis, in which a Turkish secular party is fighting against two Turkish Islamic parties. This will ultimately be the result of your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u148	Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Tasheva, in your suspicions of a global conspiracy, you forgot only to mention the World Bank as you traditionally do. I suppose you'll do it further in your speeches. Now I'm serious about this. You are not a member of the Legal Commission, and perhaps that is why you do not know the reasons why such a paragraph should be voted on. Since you are so worried about the votes of Bulgarian citizens abroad, I call you today, a protest is scheduled later in the day..................................and tell them what they will do, I didn't understand Megliss, Turkish party and so on. What you have said is a wrong approach because if you look at the results of the last parliamentary elections, you will see that only about 40% are the votes you are talking about and who are bothering you, of all the votes cast abroad. In recent years, they have steadily increased, and these are the voices of free people. The right approach would be to think about how to give free people a chance to our compatriots abroad, to vote and to compensate for this controlled vote, which is obviously happening in sections in Turkey and is really violating citizens' electoral rights, and not to introduce any general bans that would prohibit everything. Obviously, you didn't understand that either. As far as financing is concerned, I suggest that the people who will run from this area will finance their own campaign, as in many cases they finance the formation of sections themselves and do not enjoy model party subsidies for the campaign to Varadero and after Varadero, and so on. You better know these beautiful exotic destinations, and by their own means they pay for it and are struggling to really protect the interests of our free people abroad.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. [[National Representative Magdalena Tasheva wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] That was a douche bag, you couldn't possibly have... If you want a statement. I won't give you a personal explanation. You have the floor to speak, dear Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u151	I don't know how much you paid this time for this protest. I know how much you paid in 2013! [[RB lines.]] I don't know if you have any idea where Varadero Beach is. Obviously you do not know that we had a parliamentary delegation then, we had parliamentary meetings at parliamentary level, unlike you. [[Replying and shouting from RB.]] It is not enough that you have destroyed the Bulgarian industry, it is not enough that you have filled your...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u152	Please, by the lyrics, Mrs. Tasheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u153	On top of that, you're taking some weight towards freedom and democracy. Shame on you! I can show you protocols of that 40%.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u154	Please, by text, or I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u155	See what criteria?! Only 40% of the vote will be falsified in Turkey. What do you pay him?! Isn't that right?! I'd like to show you protocols from Osman Ghazi, Bursa and so on, where five people are recorded on the preliminary common electoral list and then a thousand are added. These thousand will vote for this is known! They don't even hide it. You actually, you, who from this high tribune through 1999 you declared the death of Bulgarian nationalism. Your leader is from Dragalevtsi, announced it from here, you are currently working for the Turkization of Bulgaria! And you represent this as some kind of burden for freedom and democracy. Gentlemen, this is vulgar! Come to your senses! You continue to crash Bulgaria. You have ruined the economy, the agriculture, you have concluded the most disadvantageous treaty for joining the European Union! You are the destroyers of Bulgaria! Stop ruining! [[Sighs and lines from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u156	- What's the line? There are no lines. Statements? I won't. Procedure in the manner of conducting Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A name check has just been carried out. You have announced from the stands that there is a quorum, but we have not heard what quorum we are continuing to work on. In our parallel census, the result did not come up for a quorum. Please state what quorum we are continuing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u158	You have all the technical capabilities at your disposal to find out what the quorum is, but I'll still tell you it's 133. The quorum is sufficient. It's over 121, you can check it out. [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] The Quorum is sufficient over 121. Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, in view of the changes that have not taken place in § 4 at the beginning of the texts, I will make a proposal and please put our proposed text to the vote in this way, as there are relevant changes to the paragraphs,..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 59, para. 1, t. 1... and so on....................................................................................................... My argument is this. As soon as it's in art. 7 of the Election Code or in our report is § 4, we did not make the appropriate adjustments for the creation of prerequisites for an electoral region outside the country, abroad or as you would call it, so we have no reason to vote even one such exception for an election area outside the country. In view of this, I am proposing that this text be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u160	- What's the line? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 27. [[Noise and lines.]] I shall put to the vote the proposal to create a new Paragraph 27 of the Commission. In view of previous votes, this text should not have been adopted. They voted 120 MPs: 15 against 47, abstention 58. The Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with some number has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u161	Proposal by the National Representative Velizar Enchev In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60, The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u162	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u163	You're withdrawing him?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u164	Mr. Enchev says he's withdrawing the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u165	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. The motion has been withdrawn, it will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u166	Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with a corresponding number: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 60 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 3, p. 1 Finally, the persons' declarations of consent to be proposed and declarations by the persons referred to in Article 1 shall be added. 65, para. 3.................................................................................. 2. In para. 7, p. 1 Finally, the persons' declarations of consent to be proposed and declarations by the persons referred to in Article 1 shall be added. 65, para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u167	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with its respective number and content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 116 MPs: for 115, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with its respective numbering and content has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u168	Under § 37, there is a proposal from the National Representative Mustafa Karadaye and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 37 be rejected. Under § 38, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 38 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u169	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The proposal made in Paragraph 37 of para. 4 (a) (b) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 1.. 13. to replace the number with What will happen when there is money in relation to a particular decision? I think this amendment will create another difficulty in the electoral process, and I therefore propose that it not be accepted. In terms of t. 2 and without imposing enough obligations on the Central Election Commission so far, although it does not have such a large budget, there is no capacity. We're putting another obligation on her here again. That's why we're offering y. Paragraph 37 shall also be dismissed with those grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u171	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The Commission has adopted your motives and has therefore accepted the proposal. Here's your speech, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u172	Very briefly, Mr President, honourable Members, I ask for a split vote on this point. 1 and 2. Colleagues, I'm focusing on this. 2. This is our proposal, which concerns the so-called professionalisation of the electoral administration. In other words, we propose that in the regional electoral committees CEC appoint one member who is an expert who has participated in previous elections and knows how they are conducted. This one term is outside the number of members under para. 4, so if there are fears that any party quotas would be affected, no, they would not be affected, but it would really allow for a gradual professionalisation of the electoral administration and really not in every election again to learn some people who are barely participating in elections for the first time in how elections are made, and this will happen on the back of both voters and participants in the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, in view of, as we will come to the OIC texts, it may be appropriate to think here, in fact, as proposed, one of the proposals to increase the number of members in the RIK, precisely in those who are in larger cities. It is mainly about the large areas where the relevant committee is experiencing much greater difficulties than in small municipalities in general and small areas. It is for this reason that I am proposing in paragraph 37 of the importing point the first option, which is only with the point. 2 the number 17 is replaced by 21s is replaced by 21s to be put to a separate vote, as I believe that we should take a serious step there, as we have done a little further in art. 76 of the Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u175	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My reply is also a reverse proposal because in his speech, my colleague Slavov had a procedural proposal for a separate vote. I think that the two texts are interlinked and account for the number of election committees. That's why I'm making a reverse offer, and it's in the form of a line. I don't think we should divide the two texts. They're interrelated. One text does not define the vote on the other, on the contrary, it is difficult to divide the two texts because it is proposed there. 2 another member of the Election Commission. That is why I am making a reverse motion to vote as given in the report and as we voted in the Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u177	Any other lines? Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal of the MP Petar Slavov for a split vote on the point. 1 et c. 2 by importer under § 37. They voted 101 MPs: 11 against 39, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u178	Vote 107 MPs: 95 against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. § 38 has been reported, Mr Mustafa Karadaye's proposal and a group of MPs is supported by the Commission. I am voting on the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 38 be rejected. They voted 116 MPs: 113, none against, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u179	Under § 39, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of Members of Parliament to dismiss the paragraph. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u180	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 109 MPs: 20, against 59, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 39, which becomes the relevant paragraph on our report. Vote 107 MPs: 96 against 8, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u181	There is a proposal from Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: ##39a is being created: ....... 39........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70 the following amendments 1. In para. 4 sentence 2 is deleted; 2. A new Paragraph 5 shall be created: In the absence of the necessary majority to adopt a decision, a decision on rejection is deemed to be subject to appeal under the Code. Upon revocation of that decision, the Regional Election Commission shall issue a new decision which shall adopt by a majority more than half of the members present. 3. Previously on AMC's... 5, para. 6, para. 7, para. 8th para. 9 becomes para. 6, para. 7, para. 8, para. 9th para. 10. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u182	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Haytov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 104 MPs: for 9, against 24, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u183	Under § 40, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: ..... 40 to The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u184	Statements? I won't. You didn't report everything under § 40, Mr. Kirilov. There is an unsupported proposal and the Commission proposes that the text of the importer be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u185	Yes, I'm sorry, there is a proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: In § 40, point (b) is replaced by the following: 2, at the beginning of the text of the created t. 6a shall be placed as necessary. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 40 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u186	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 88 MPs: 23, against 42, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 40 by importer. Vote 98 MPs: 85 against 12, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u187	Paragraph 41. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 41 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u188	Statements? Mr. Iliev wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u189	Thank you, Madam President. I propose that the proposal be dropped because now the current article. 73 states that the appeal can be made before the Supreme Administrative Court. It does not really make sense that the highest authority responsible for the entire electoral system, such as the Central Election Commission, should be able to appeal its decisions before the regional administrative court. So I consider it absolutely logical to drop the paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u190	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Nikiforov, for Mr. Iliev's cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u191	My line is directed in the following sense. The proposal made by the importer is appropriate, at least from a legal point of view. It proposes to rule on complaints against decisions of the RIK, confirmed by the CEC, on administrative courts, and on regional administrative courts. I believe that regional administrative courts have the appropriate capacity and could make a legitimate and correct decision. Those are my considerations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u192	That was a line to Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u193	He pointed out that it should be the CEC, respectively the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u194	Second line? I won't. Will you use a hole, Mr. Iliev? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Popov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u195	Thank you, Madam President. I will briefly read the current text of art. 73, which reads: The decisions of the Regional Election Commission may be challenged within 3 days of their announcement to the Central Election Commission, which shall be delivered within 3 days by a decision subject to appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court. Here the importers want the Supreme Court to replace it with the relevant administrative court. Dear MPs, we are talking about CEC decisions. Right here, my colleague notes...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u196	Mr. Popov, keep an eye on the text you're quoting correctly. When the text of the importer of the report falls, § 41, by not accepting it, remains the provision of the Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u197	I am talking about the proposal of importers, not the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u198	You're talking about Mr. Karadayi's proposal and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u199	No, the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u200	All right, to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u201	I am talking about the Commission proposal and in my speech I agree with Mr Karadayi's proposal. It is clear that this text, so proposed by the Commission, should be dismissed because it is not subject to appeal, it is a Central Election Commission and its decisions cannot be appealed to an appropriate administrative court.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u202	Colleague, isn't that what the Legal Commission is about, so it was the working groups we have a report, you offer us a solution in the report and we resume the debates from a starting point of view?! Are there any other MPs? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject the text in art. 41 on the report. Vote 100 MPs: 92 against 7, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u203	Proposal by the National Representative Svilen Ivanov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with a corresponding number: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 3, p. 1 Finally, the persons' declarations of consent to be proposed and declarations by the persons referred to in Article 1 shall be added. 80, para. 3.................................................................................. 2. In para. 7, p. 1 Finally, the persons' declarations of consent to be proposed and declarations by the persons referred to in Article 1 shall be added. 80, para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u204	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the creation of a new paragraph for changes in art. 75, according to the Commission report. They voted 99 MPs: 86, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u205	Paragraph 42. Proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Svilen Ivanov and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall not support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version of § 42, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76, para. The following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the number 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the number
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u206	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer and proposes a new version of § 42 by importer, the numbering is only by importer and otherwise in the version of the Commission report, it is about changes in art. 76, para. 4. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 85 against 4, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u207	Paragraph 43. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77, para. 1 the words of the administration of the municipal council are replaced by the appointment of the municipal electoral commission for the next general elections for municipal councilors and mayors.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u208	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for a change in art. 77, para. 1. Vote 97 MPs: 92, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u209	Paragraph 44. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the importer for § 44, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u210	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 99 MPs: 18, against 50, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal in full in favour of § 44 by importer. He'll have another numbering. Vote 94 MPs: 81 against 3, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u211	The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 83 the following amendments and additions are made. 1. In para. 4 the following elections for municipal councilors and mayors are replaced by the appointment of the municipal electoral commission for the next general elections for municipal councilors and for mayors. 2. A new para is being created. 6: The provisions of Art. 4 (1) (a) and (b) shall apply. 97, para. 4 shall also apply to members of municipal electoral committees for the period of 7 days after the election results have been announced until the appointment of the respective municipal electoral commission for the next general elections for municipal councillors and mayors. 3. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u212	Statements? I won't. Colleagues, we are voting on the Commission proposal for amendments and additions to art. 83. Vote 98 MPs: 87, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u213	Proposal from the MPs Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: screated § 44a: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85 the following amendments and 1. In para. the fourth sentence is replaced by the following: 2. A new Paragraph 5 shall be created: In the absence of the necessary majority to adopt a decision, a decision on rejection is deemed to be subject to appeal under the Code. Upon revocation of that decision, the municipal electoral committee shall issue a new decision which shall adopt by a majority more than half of the members present. 3. Previously on AMC's... 5, para. 6, para. 7, para. 8th para. 9 becomes para. 6, para. 7, para. 8, para. 9th para. 10. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u214	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 11 against 32, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u215	According to § 45, a proposal from the MPs Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Mihail Mikov and a group of Members of the National Assembly, § 45, p. Three out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Madam President, I, as one of the contributors, will also ask colleagues Mitev and Simeonov to withdraw this proposal. It concerns local coalitions. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 45, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 87, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Point 10 is canceled. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 13 words and local coalitions Madam President, I repeat, I am withdrawing the item. Two that I just read. "3." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 25 words "20,00 hours' shall be replaced by "21,00 hours'. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 30 after the words the authority of the mayor is added to the municipal council. The coworkers are giving a sign.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u216	Mr. Kirilov, I understand that you made a statement at the same time. You are proposing an editorial amendment to the paragraph which refers to changes in art. 87. You're suggesting a t. Two down.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u217	Yeah, drop out. She's withdrawn from me. And co-workers give a sign.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u218	It is well withdrawn, but is reproduced by the Commission. That's what I'm trying to tell you. The editorial proposals here are in the Commission's version. Who has offered what has been able to withdraw it before the Commission's text. Statements? Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u219	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I thank the importers for wanting to withdraw the text. This is on the insistence and active intervention of ABB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u220	You guys can't hear me. No importers may withdraw a text already supported by the Commission. A procedure may be made which has been made by the Commission text to withdraw. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u221	Okay. Regarding this procedure, we support it because we believe that the institute of the local coalition should not be deleted. It is clear that many places do involve corporate interests, but we cannot claim that a priori is happening everywhere. If such a proposal had been adopted, we would have damaged the association of small parties on the ground and the participation of individuals on the ground. We believe that the restriction should be lifted, because otherwise the local coalitions will drop out and should only go under the hat of nationally represented parties, and they at local level work well with ideas and initiatives. From ABB, therefore, we welcome local coalitions as institutions and format to stay. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs for dropping out entirely § 45 by importer. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 103 MPs: 21, against 50, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal belongs to Mr. Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. They offer § 45, t. 3 drop out, and it says, "They." 10 is canceled. The report states that the Commission does not support the proposal, however, in the version of the Commission, Mr. Kirilov, writes: "The Commission does not support the proposal. 10 is canceled. In practice, the proposal is supported. [[Definitions.]] I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 94 MPs: 24, against 39, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We come to the Commission's version of changes in art. 87, para. 1. First, I will put Mr. Kirilov's proposal to the vote. Two down. It's about the local coalitions. We are voting on Mr. Kirilov's proposal to drop in the version of the Commission for changes in art. 87, para. 1.................................................................................. 13 words and local coalitions. This thing gets dropped. Voted 103 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to amend art. 87, para. 1, in line with the dropping of t. 2, points 3 and 4 will respectively be points 2 and 3. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 72, against 18, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Negative vote? Here you go. There will be a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u223	Thank you, Madam President. I voted against the proposal so made because it creates and will create an absolute mess in the upcoming elections. On the one hand, in the previous terms, and here in point. 10, which you did not support, the single number remains for all kinds of elections. At the same time, you also leave local coalitions that can be registered. In practice, this is one thing, in my opinion, I will use the expression "woody iron" at the same time you leave local coalitions,...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u224	That's your favorite expression, Mr. Popov, your favorite expression.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u225	...but with a single number for the whole country. I am also responding here to my colleagues from the ABB because you also supported this vote on the single number, although you have spoken in respect of it. 10 and so on. 13. You've created an absolute chaos in the election process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u226	Mr. Kazak, will there be a second negative vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u227	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I voted against it, as I have deep reservations towards moving the election day one hour ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u228	Back up, we've increased it. Instead of 20, it's 21 hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u229	Yes, that is, the election day moves forward from 6,00 to 20,00 is amended from 7,00 to 21.00. This arrangement was introduced in the Election Code of Fidosova. Even then we exposed this intention to move the end of the election day as close as possible to the dark part of the day. This was returned, corrected by the Election Code Maya Manolova, and now GERB restores this arrangement again, that is, it returns the arrangement as it was in the Code of Fidosova. This is something that hides serious suspicions of manipulation in the dark part of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u230	Third negative vote? I won't. Paragraph 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u231	Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs § 46 to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 46 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u232	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 46 by importer. Vote 95 MPs: 89, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u233	Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs § 47 to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 47 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u234	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u235	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I want to draw your attention to sentence two, t. 2, para. 1 which says so: "For President, Vice-President, Secretary or Member of a Sectionary Election Commission, only a person who has not been convicted of a serious criminal offence may be appointed. A little earlier on the regional election committees and the municipal committees, if you look at paragraphs 39 and 44, you will see that we have recorded something different and it seems to me that it is better to comply with the texts and that they are identical. At least we cannot create a dual regime in the requirements for participation in the different levels of electoral administration. If you look at § 39, it is said that it cannot be a member who has been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature, regardless of rehabilitation, as well as the release from criminal liability for a deliberate crime. 50 of the current Election Code, which is why I'm making an editorial proposal. Dear Madam President, in a sentence of two points. 2, para. 1 to finally add: of a general nature, regardless of rehabilitation, and to drop the word of a premeditated criminal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u236	Please repeat the proposal one more time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u237	The proposal, once again, is in point. 2, para. The second sentence of the sentence of the second sentence of the sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the law of the Member State of the European Union and of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the first sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the This corresponds to paragraphs 39 and 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u238	The line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u239	Madam President, I do not know if it should be in the form of a reply, but I am questioning whether this is an editorial proposal. The difference between a deliberate crime is that some of the intentional crimes end with administrative penalties under art. 78a.. either with fines, or with probation, and a alleged deliberate crime............................................................. is........................................................................................................................................................................................ And by the essence, I think that there were enough debates in the Legal Committee, there was a clear picture of what it means to be rehabilitated and what it means to be convicted of a crime, regardless of the rehabilitation. But by nature, I don't think this is an editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u240	Second line? Mr. Kazak, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u241	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Slavov, let us still distinguish between different types of electoral committees. One is a regional electoral commission, another is a municipal electoral commission, another is a sectary electoral commission, which are thousands and inside members... If this text is adopted and you see that the Commission has rejected it in principle, so I hope that this will also be supported in the plenary, not at all to the editorial amendments that you are proposing, but I am simply paying attention to you that any such fact should be established, you know in what order. For the sectional election committees, this is completely unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u242	Third line, Mr. Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u243	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Colleague Slavov, I understand that this applies to the members of the regional electoral committees, but to the ordinary electoral committees where there are 12 500 committees, about ten people put on commission, 7, 9 and so on, think about it, we will create a huge problem for the authorities in the state. Moreover, when he is rehabilitated, he comes out with a clean witness. In order for this to happen, you have to go through a special procedure, and you know 120,000 people, how would it work, what would it work?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u244	A hole, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u245	Mrs. Chairman! In order to sum up the argument we've actually had in the Legal Committee... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u246	Dear colleagues replicating, listen to the answer to your lines by Mr. Slavov!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u247	To sum things up, do we want to allow individuals who, as people call them, are criminally guilty or have been convicted and have not been rehabilitated? It seems to me, even though colleagues say that this was almost the lowest level. On the contrary, it is there that we must be particularly careful, because this is the level with which the normal person It is at these levels that are all these cool guys, who often see them on the media materials that go around, spin around and do some things that are totally wrong and kind of, if, for example, these cool guys at some point received the relevant sentence, whether for hooliganism or for some other kind of lighter crime, it turns out that they will have no problem taking part in the next election in section election committees. Even here, I'll pay attention. Mr. Lazarov, he pointed out to the Legal Committee that it is better for these levels to be stricter than for the CEC, with whom the normal voter usually has no direct contact. In fact, what I am proposing is that we just align the requirements that they are to the CEC, which we previously wrote them to the RIK and the OIC, and that they are to the sectional election committees. It seems to me that this is absolutely sustained and corresponds to the basic principle in the right, indeed, in a law, to have equal treatment of identical cases. The other would be to create a double standard for one and the other, which does not seem reasonable to me, so I urge you to support my editorial proposal. It shall correspond to paragraphs 39 and 44 already voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u248	Any other MPs? [[Heckling]] Well, how does a personal explanation like you were making a line? How can he address you and answer your lines, Mr. Slavov, if he doesn't give you the name? [[Noise and lines.]] That's another question. To speak, Mr. Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u249	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest we don't waste so much time and do shit. I could articulate that since they're criminally exposed and so dangerous, can you imagine if they're government security agents? If they've committed some super huge crimes in 1946, let's see if they've been State Security agents. If it's for the CEC, let's see now. Don't do anything stupid, please! And don't these 120,000 people that we're wondering how to get her involved, now let's look for them: give them belonging to other services, to other countries, hard pasts and so on- So, the mayor can be elected, an MP can be elected, the president can be elected, but, you see, in the village, looking for two teachers to be, we'll be looking for them in the past if they have any administrative violation. Do you understand that we are wasting time and we will never accept this code?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u250	Let's not insult the teachers, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u251	No, I don't want to offend anyone! I just want to say that these are the people who feel socially involved and most often they participate in such committees because we have problems finding people for them. And when we set these conditions for them to bring one, two, third document, to draw up a criminal record, to prove, to declare, and then to check the declared, and at some point it will turn out that we will not find anyone to participate. Let us not introduce such superrules, which, by the way, do not apply to us, to proceed to an end to the debate and to proceed to a vote which is my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u252	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Dimitrov's motion to end the debate. We vote. They voted 102 MPs: for 89, against 11, abstention 2. The motion to end the debate has been accepted. The debates have been closed. There's a vote coming up, folks. In accordance with our rules, the Rules of Procedure first put to the vote proposals to reject the texts of the importer, so I vote on the Commission's proposal to reject § 47 by importer. If this paragraph is not rejected, then I will put Mr. Slavov's proposals to the vote. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 47. Vote 108 MPs: 91 against 16, abstention 1. The proposal has been accepted by an importer, which is why there can be no editorial amendments to it. Paragraph 48 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u253	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u254	There are no speeches. We are voting § 48 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs, they voted 107, they didn't mind, they didn't hold back 4. The motion is accepted. Next paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u255	Under § 49, a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 49 to engulf." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 49 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u256	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 49 by importer. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I have said and reported the proposal is to Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs supported by the Commission, but we are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject the paragraph. [[GERB lines.]] I think they're following the debate very closely, and there's no way they're going to go wrong. They voted 116 MPs: 105, against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u257	Paragraph 50. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs - § 50 - drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 50, which shall become a paragraph with the relevant number: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 92, para. 8 the word (s) (s) is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u258	Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u259	Excuse me, Madam President, just to make it clear that Mr Karadayi's proposal is supported by the Commission. I read it as unsupported, but it is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u260	The report says he wasn't backed up. Technical error?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u261	Technical error.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u262	The entire Commission has been working on Mr. Karadayi's proposals. In the report on p. 37 Mr Mustafa Karadayi's proposal and a group of MPs is supported by the Commission. The report is a technical error. The proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs is not supported. Only it turns out he's partly supported, right? And it's partly supported. [[Noise and lines.]] We've got editing, yeah. Colleagues, speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 124 MPs: 29, against 65, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the amendment of § 50 by importer, a new relevant number is available and otherwise there is a reference to a change in art. 92, para. 8. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 117 MPs: 116, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u263	Paragraph 51. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop § 51. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 51 be rejected. Paragraph 52. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 52 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u264	Statements? I won't. Mr Karadayi's proposals and a group of MPs are supported by the Commission on both paragraphs. We are voting on the Commission's proposals to reject paragraphs 51 and 52 by importer. Voted 118 MPs: 113, no objection, abstention 5. Both proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u265	Paragraph 53. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. Madam President, a technical error is what is on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u266	So he's backed up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u267	Proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov: In § 53, the words after the words "general character" shall be deleted by the end of the sentence. A new sentence is added with the following text: The persons certify the circumstances of the transitional sentence with a self-hand declaration. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 53 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u268	Statements? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u269	Madam President, honourable Members! In order not to repeat what I said a while ago that it is not desirable at all, it is not nice to foresee an opportunity in the sectional election committees to participate persons who have been convicted and have not been rehabilitated, only to note that the text that we have recorded to apply only to serious intentional crimes could mean that all persons, for example, from domestic crime who have committed thefts, which, within the meaning of the Penal Code, are considered minor cases, if so, the text, unfortunately, will be able to participate in the sectional election committees without any restrictions. Given that there were lines on how complicated everything would be, if this text is adopted, I pay attention to the proposal that we have made with my colleague Dimitrov with a simple statement, when declared members of the sectional committees, to declare that they have not been convicted. In other words, no one will ask for evidence of criminality, nor in any other way will the election process be difficult.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u270	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u271	Madam President, honourable Members! With proposals to change art. 95 We propose that in the sectional election committees persons who have at least secondary education enter. I don't see why we should be against this.! We complicate the choice, we introduce a safe machine vote, why not ask the members of the sectional election committees to have some kind of education, basic or secondary education? In my opinion, the fact that the Commission does not support the text of the importer is not correct. This text must be supported, at least be able to meet the quality composition of the sectional committees' responsibilities and duties. They must fill out protocols, be able to consider, do quick work, know the rules by which the electoral process is carried out, be aware of the Election Code. We were just talking about training. How will you train them if there are illiterate people in the committees? [[Reply from the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] That's what I'm asking: how do we train them? Therefore, I ask you very much, let us accept this reasonable norm of the importer and enter persons who have the necessary education, so let us speak. I do not see why we do not unite all the parliamentary groups and support the text of the importer?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u272	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Slavov and Mr. Dimitrov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 108 MPs: 17 against 33, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 53 by importer. [[Reply by National Representative Chetin Kazak.]] At Mr. Karadayi's suggestion and a group of MPs, Mr. Kazak. They voted 114 MPs: 85, against 21, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u273	Paragraph 54 "A proposal from the National Representative Mustafa Karadaye and a group of Members of the National Assembly" § 54 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 54, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 97 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words his work is added to the day before the election day. 2. A new para is being created. 4. The payment of remuneration under para. 1 of the members of the selection election committees registered as unemployed and/or entitled to social assistance shall not deprive persons of receipt of benefits and/or aid and shall not require an amendment of circumstances already declared by them. 3. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. Madam President, I would like to make an editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u274	According to the text of the Commission, we are listening to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u275	According to the Commission's text: after the word "the following', we add to it the following amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u276	To add supplies and supplies. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Karadayi and a group of Members of the National Assembly "The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 109 MPs: 15 against 67, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial amendment to the version of the Commission for changes in art. 97 to be considered: the following amendments and additions shall be made. We are voting on Mrs. Alexandrova's proposal. Vote 104 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We vote in full on the changes in art. 97 in and in the version of the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 94, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u277	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number. Dear Madam President, to make an editorial proposal: where is the word "create" at the place of...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u278	Got it. Since the text has two sentences, you've written that you're only creating one third. Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 55 which sounds like this: 98 a sentence is created third and a fourth is a technical error. It's obvious that there are two sentences, there's only one written. And, respectively, sentence two, and then the assignment order.................................................................. and so forth....................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u279	There are no sections abroad, are there?! What's with the text? What's with all the hassle? We don't have sections, we're gonna post people?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u280	Wait for the second part of the report, Mr. Karadayi. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] We are voting § 55 with the correction of the technical error. It is two sentences, not one. Vote 98 MPs: 85 against 5, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u281	Paragraph 56 "A proposal from the National Representative Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs: the following paragraph is added: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 99 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. the third sentence is deleted; 2. a new para is created. 4. In the absence of the necessary majority to adopt a decision, a decision on rejection is deemed to be subject to appeal under the Code. Upon revocation of that decision, the Selection Election Commission shall establish a new decision which shall adopt by a majority more than half of the members present. 3. Previously on AMC's... 4, para. 5 and para. 6 becomes para. 5, para. 6 and para. 7. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u282	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u283	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I again appeal not to transfer absolutely, automatically, certain provisions that concern higher electoral committees to the lowest of the Sectorial Election Commissions. What does it mean for every decision in the selection election committee to be adopted by roll call? There are many solutions, including on election day, for every controversial case and so on. What's a roll call?! That means...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u284	Getting out of place and...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u285	Getting up from place, making a statement, then in the protocol to reflect and so on.. The member Hicks, the member Igrek, how he voted. It's a little too much for me. Think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u286	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Haytov and a group of Members of the National Assembly "The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 96 MPs: for 6, against 39, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 56. Voted 103 MPs: 90 against 8, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Guys, we're gonna take a break here. I ask for correctness and understanding when we say the time, to be the minute here, not to waste time afterwards. Thirty minutes of rest until 15:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u287	Honourable Members, the meeting is continuing. Mrs. Alexandrova, § 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u288	...... 57............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100, para. 1, t. 7 words.............................................................................. 282, para. 6 or art. 441, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 57 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u289	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 57 by importer. Vote 67 MPs: 65, none, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u290	Under § 58, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58, which shall become a paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u291	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 75 MPs: 8 against 49, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 58. Vote 84 MPs: 77 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u292	Under § 59, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u293	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 24, Against 55, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 59. 90 MPs voted: 82 against 7, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u294	Thank you, Madam President. I voted against it because I do not know how many MPs have understood what this is about. We are talking about a proposal of organizations of Bulgarians abroad to appoint members of sectional committees. Provided that you have decided that there will be no sectional committees outside the diplomatic and consular offices, what proposals from the organizations of the Bulgarians, what five leva?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u295	Mrs. Alexandrova, § 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u296	........................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108, para. 1, t. 8 words.............................................................................. 282, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 60 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u297	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 98 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Under § 61, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs - § 61 - is dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 61 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u298	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 61. The proposals of two groups of MPs were supported by Karadayi and group, and Mikov and group. They voted 106 MPs: 98, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u299	ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 111 is A person convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature may not be registered as an observer. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop § 62. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov § 62 to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 62 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u300	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 62 by importer. Vote 108 MPs: 102, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u301	Under § 63, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, and c. Two is withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 63, which shall become paragraph by the relevant number: .. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." explicitly authorised representatives of the registered Bulgarian NGOs, which can only be associations registered for public benefit and subject to activity in the field of the protection of citizens' political rights; (b) c. 2 the word "movements" is replaced by "non-governmental organizations." 2. In para. 4 t. 3 is finally added to the country, respectively outside the country and a sentence is created second: "The authorized representatives of the organization submit declarations that they agree to be registered as observers, which are an integral part of the list; " 3. In para. 5 the word "movements" is replaced by "non-governmental organizations." 4. In para. 6 the word "movement" is replaced by "non-governmental organization." 5. In para. 7 after the word "supervisors" is added to the country, respectively outside the country. 6. In para. 8 shall be added at the end indicating whether the observer is registered for the country or outside the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u302	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 107 MPs: 31 against 45, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 63 by importer in its version on the Commission report. They voted 107 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u303	Proposal Christian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 64 to fall." The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 64 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u304	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 111 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u305	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: A new § 6 is being created with the text: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117 para. 6 after the text a candidate list is placed comma and a representative is added to a sectional election commission proposed by a party or coalition in its composition. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: § Paragraph 65 to be reported. § 65 to be reported. § 65 to be reported. § 65 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u306	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u307	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to remind you that we have just rejected the proposal to require, as a condition for a member of a selection committee, that the person is not convicted of a deliberate crime and that the Commission has rightly rejected these proposals. But here, surprisingly, this requirement proposed for advocates, the committee has supported it. I think it doesn't make any sense since, for members of sectional committees, we do not provide for a requirement that members have not been convicted of intentional crimes, to introduce such a requirement for advocates. That is why this proposal must be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u308	- What's the line? There are no lines to Mr. Kazak. To speak, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u309	Colleagues, it's not true that we didn't foresee for the sectional committees to still have some requirement for a purely judicial past. According to § 47, what we recorded was that persons should not be convicted of serious intentional crimes. And what we were proposing back then was for deliberate crimes of a general nature with the supplement, as it was not accepted. So we've written a text, though I don't think it's the best. And here for the advocates, it's obviously a different category. I don't think anyone would want to see criminals running around the polls doing suspicious things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u310	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u311	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Slavov! One is members of sectional committees that are officials within the meaning of the Election Code, another is advocates. The advocates are ordinary citizens, ordinary voters who are given certain powers, but they do not have the status of officials, as are the members of sectional committees. So introducing such requirements is unwarranted. No one is saying, of course, that criminals should be advocates. But you know it's full of criminals who haven't been convicted. You know how many people there are who have several criminal registrations, Mr. Tsvetanov can confirm you, but they never went to trial and have never been convicted. Especially among those with thick necks, very few have been sentenced with effective sentences. However, they give a lot of respect when they are used. So that's not what's gonna solve your criminal problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u312	Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u313	Thank you, Mr. Kazak, for this line and for the experience you shared, so clearly from the position of the DPS, about how such individuals are actually involved in the electoral process and what they are engaged in. Some of the things I didn't know, to admit it. So I'm adjusting. I hope, colleagues, everyone in this House, except for fellow Members of the DPS, that they do not want persons who have been convicted to be able to participate in the electoral process as advocates. You understand yourself that these are individuals who participate in the electoral process regardless of their quality. They are specified in the Election Code. They have certain rights to attend the census and so on. I wish I didn't see any criminal faces like that messing around carrying people in buses, cars, making Indian threads and stuff, and raising their shoulders. That's the point of our proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u314	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Kadiev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 104 MPs: for 5, against 72, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 111 MPs: 35, against 52, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 65, supported by the Commission, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding numbering of its report. Vote 108 MPs: 88 against 16, abstention 4. Paragraph 65 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u315	Proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 118 Finally a statement is added by the persons that they meet the requirements of art. 117, para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u316	Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u317	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to make an editorial proposal after art. 118, let's add: 1 sentence (four).
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u318	Do you have any comments on the proposal? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova to add to § 45 after. The expression is " 118" of the expression: "al." 1 sentence (four). They voted 109 MPs: for 86, against 1, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission proposal for the creation of a new § 45. The paragraph is with the corresponding numbering and the corresponding text, and with the newly adopted editorial proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Anna Alexandrova. Vote 94 MPs: 87, none, abstention 7. The proposal to create a new paragraph with its respective numbering and content on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u319	Paragraph 66. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number. Paragraph 67. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs - § 67 - is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 67, which shall become paragraph by the relevant number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 120 is created Nine. submit complaints and alerts for violations of the electoral process.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u320	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 119 This is about the first proposal, the words "applicant" to be replaced by "candidate list." It is written that the advocate has the capacity of an official within the meaning of the Penal Code until the election results are announced. Where the registration of an independent candidate has been deleted, the deletion shall also apply to his advocates. Here, when we replace the candidate with the candidate list, we make no sense of the appearance and the opportunity to have independent candidates and to have their advocates. Because this text applies only to the candidate list, but not to independent candidates. What will happen to the advocates of independent candidates if they are announced under this text, under art. 119? With regard to the other proposal, he is present in the information centers serving the system and so on, I repeat here, we are burdening the Central Election Commission with extremely much power that it cannot end. In fact, there we are creating a new centre in terms of this electronic remote vote, a new administration that cannot handle these obligations, even more in the absence of a budget in the CEC. I suggest that these two texts are not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u322	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u323	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take a short line just to point out that independent candidates also make candidate lists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u324	Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u325	Mr. Kirilov, the numbers are different here. Election papers regarding the ballot, what happens when it is with an initiative committee? There's a difference.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u326	Any other speeches? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u327	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm doing a technical editing. In § 47, under art. 120 after class. To add "al" to 120. This is the first time I've ever seen you before. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 9 goes on: Nine. He's filing a We're adding to
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u328	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 1....... no I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, as well as the proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs who are not supported by the Commission. They voted 115 MPs: 28 against 60, abstention 27. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal made by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova for an editorial supplement in the text of the Commission for § 67 in art. 120 to be added to the "al." 1.................................................................................. 90 MPs voted: 87, none, abstention 3. The proposal of the MP Anna Alexandrova is accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for § 66 and § 67, which are supported by the Commission, which are edited by the same, and both paragraphs shall be included in the Commission's report with the relevant numbering and content. They voted 113 MPs: 96 against 9, abstention 8. Paragraphs 66 and 67 by importer have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u329	Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 48: ............... 48............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127, para. 3 words "or in various local coalitions" are written. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with the relevant number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 128 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "including the local coalition" shall be deleted and a sentence shall be created second: "The name or abbreviation of a coalition cannot repeat the name or abbreviation of a coalition registered in the Central Election Commission for participation in the last elections for MPs or the name of an existing parliamentary group, as well as the addition to them in words, letters, figures or other signs." 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The prohibition under para. 1 shall not apply where the name or abbreviation of the coalition repeats the name or abbreviation of any of the parties involved in it, and if there is an agreement in writing with a notary endorsement of the signatures of the persons representing the coalition or of the parliamentary group's leadership.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u330	You have the floor for speeches on proposals to create new paragraphs 48 and 49. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u331	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Regarding the first proposal, what is of Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Danail Kirilov, for art. 127, para. 3 words or in various local coalitions are deleted, I am proposing that this text be removed, as we have specified in the previous vote. Regarding the next proposal of Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Danail Kirilov, which refers to § 49 by importer in the report, I would like to make a proposal in art. 128 to add another sentence at the end of para. 1 with the following content: The name or abbreviation of a local coalition contains only the name or abbreviation of some of the parties or coalitions involved. I specify that the whole text of t. 1 shall be so: "1." In para. 1 words - including local coalition - remain.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u332	Don't delete it, okay?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u333	It's like this: "1." In para. A sentence second and third is created: The name or abbreviation of a coalition, including a local coalition, cannot repeat the name or abbreviation of a coalition registered in the Central Election Commission for participation in the last elections for MPs or the name of an existing parliamentary group, as well as the addition to them in words, letters, figures or other signs. The name or abbreviation of a local coalition contains only the name or abbreviation of one of the parties or coalitions involved.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u334	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I welcome Mr. Kirilov for withdrawing the text under art. 67a, which envisioned dropping the possibility of local coalitions in local elections. In this way, we leave the opportunity for the parties to associate freely in local coalitions in the next local elections. With regard to § 67b, I propose an amendment in para. 2 there after the words "conciliation in writing" to delete "with notary certification of the signatures" and to remain in agreement with the written form of the persons representing the coalition or the management of the parliamentary group. The argument about this editorial proposal is that all over the Election Code the documents presented on behalf of the parties and coalitions are not not not certified. This is done precisely in order to ease the heavy application and registration of the Central Election Commission or municipal electoral committees, where a number of documents are usually required. If each of them had to be certified notary, it would lead to unnecessary costs and actions. That's a statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u336	That's obviously a statement. There is no way to make such proposals in a line. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Dimitar Delchev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u337	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Delchev! It is true that we introduced the practice and voted on the text without a notary certification of the documents under the Election Code, but with one agreement and a clarification, except where otherwise provided. This is the case in which we are predicting such a case. Why is it planned and proposed? So there won't be any manipulations. If there is a complex, constructed party or complex form of representation, it is better for the notary to check on the registration papers and then verify, i.e. to have a preliminary check. The other barrier, the other protection that this rule carries out, is that there are no gross abuses, for example, that I present your signature or signature to one of your four leaders and say: Here the difficult element is consent. When it is achieved, the smaller problem is the notary form. I don't think anyone's gonna blame me for trying to figure out how to open a new job for the notary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u338	Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Delchev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u339	Thank you for your clarification, Mr. Kirilov. Thank you for being concerned about local coalitions, coalitions as a whole and the way signatures can be forged. I am rather concerned about the fact that if local coalitions are to be made at local elections to say in a hundred municipalities, given how negotiations were going and what process was going through to verify each local coalition in a municipality, I am afraid that this will lead to further complexity so that there will eventually be 100 documents that must be notarized and distributed throughout the country. I find that unnecessary. Since we allow for the remaining 10 documents that the coalitions submit on behalf of the leaders with their signatures not to require notary certification, I think we should allow for this document the consent to use the Coalition's name also not to have a notary certification to have a single application throughout the registration procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u340	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with the corresponding numbering, with just one of the importers of the national representative Danail Kirilov, calling not to support this text. This is § 48 in the numbering of the Commission. The proposal is to create a new paragraph which one of the importers urged not to accept. Please vote. They voted 102 MPs: 10, against 62, abstention 30. The proposal to create a new paragraph numbering 48 on the Commission report is rejected. There are two proposals on the next new paragraph. The first is from the MP Danail Kirilov, as presented to you by the parliamentary tribune. Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov. They voted 102 MPs: 97, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. There is a next proposal from the MP Dimitar Delchev, made by the parliamentary tribune. Please vote. They voted 85 MPs: 14 against 26, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with corresponding numbering and content on the Commission report together with the proposal adopted just now by the MP Danail Kirilov. Vote 99 MPs: 94 against 4, abstention 1. The proposal to create a new paragraph with corresponding numbering and content on the Commission report has been adopted. Negative vote. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a nutshell, I voted against this proposal, not because it is not resonant, on the contrary, it concerns local coalitions. However, the attempt to resuscitate local coalitions after you have already voted to have a single number, centrally drawn, I think it is not a good one, and with this proposal will not take place in practice. The local coalitions are practically ending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u342	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. There are no other negative votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u343	Paragraph 68. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 68 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Anastasov: The following amendment and addition shall be made in § 68: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 133, para. 3, p. 5 after the words suppliers the registration is added to the party authorised by the party and the single civil number "supplier" is replaced by the unique identification number "supplied by the party's authorised by the party and the single civil number "supplier" is replaced by the unique identification number "supplied by the party." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 68, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u344	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in this paragraph, we are once again playing innovation, further complication and bureaucraticisation of the electoral process, and in particular the process of registration of parties and coalitions in the Central Election Commission. What problems have we had so far with the collection of 2500 signatures of Bulgarian citizens supporting the registration of a party or coalition, so we now need to complicate this registration further by introducing the special requirement that these signatures be placed before an authorised party or by the coalition? Has anyone ever been found to have collected signatures with fraud, that people didn't know what they were signing for, so now that the signatures are in place, every party and coalition will have to prove to the CEC that they were collected by specially authorized individuals, will have to be presented with powers, evidence that these are the people who collected the signatures? It is hardly necessary to call for certain citizens who have signed their signatures to confirm with testimony that it is the persons claiming to have been authorised who have collected these signatures. What does all this have to do with anything? It is absolutely unnecessary for the CEC to refuse the registration of a party or coalition on this basis. This is the hidden design, and if it really is, it is regrettable. We seriously insist that this absolutely harmful and unnecessary text be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u346	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Are there any lines, fellow Members? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u347	Dear Mr. Kazak, when people's personal data is collected, they need to know who is responsible. There are now numerous cases where individuals whose personal data have been stolen are present in the signatures that are presented to reach the number that is being chased. Then, when the committee starts checking, it turns out that it is not known who collected them, who provided them; who is responsible for these personal data that have been collected. Make your organization if you have a problem with it. If you know that Ivan Ivanov must collect 1000 signatures, he is responsible for all these thousand. If there's someone in there with stolen data, like they put my name on it when I complain, let them know who's responsible. This is the proposal to stop this practice from stealing personal data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u348	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Second line? People's representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u349	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kazak, you may have missed it, but this text is in absolute sync with the rest of the so-called misconceptions in the Election Code. The next suggestion might be to make these signatures in front of a notary, with a notary endorsement. I don't doubt it. Maybe we'll get to that. On the one hand, we introduce an obligation and, on the other, any administrative restrictions to hinder the electoral process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u350	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Kazak, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u351	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ananiev, the political party is responsible for presenting this signature. The political party, as an entity, is responsible for how it collected the signatures, not the person Hicks or Igrek, to whom these signatures were supposedly placed. The party is the entity responsible, including under the Personal Data Protection Act. If somewhere a case arises that the personal data of a particular group of Bulgarian citizens have been stolen, no authorized person will bear this responsibility. I repeat, if this text is proposed by you, by your coalition, this for the last time shows that you, instead of seeking to make it easier, to simplify the electoral process, the opposite, are seeking to torment it all, to complicate it, to bureaucrat it to the extreme, in order to hinder the electoral administration and hence the electoral process. At a time when all reports of the Venice Commission and of the OSCE observation missions appeal to simplify the electoral process, to facilitate the Bulgarian citizens, you are constantly loading the Election Code with such absurd, complicated requirements, new conditions that will lead only to new errors, new problems, new disputes and arbitrariness! I do not wish you in the near future not to have a sufficient majority in the CEC, and specifically this text, for example, to be used to refuse the registration of one of the Reformation bloc parties just because someone will complain that they have not signed in front of an authorised person. This can happen.. someone can urge any citizen of these 2500 to file a complaint that he has not signed to an authorised person that has signed to a person who has not been legitimized, for example, although the signature has been duly lodged, he has submitted his identity card, provided his personal data. Then what are we doing? Only on this basis the CEC will refuse all registration! Is that what you're after? Okay. I do not wish it to happen when your party is trying to register for the next election.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u352	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very nice that you have started this discussion about counterfeit, or sometimes falsified or stolen personal data. It is in this regard that I continue to argue that if we replace the CNN with this unique identification number (WIN), we will at least partially solve the problem with people's personal data. I think that the dispute that broke down earlier was precisely about not stealing personal data. However, let us not forget that each party gives the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data a register of people who are entitled to process the personal data on the lists. In this respect, this first part, which has been introduced, is absolutely unnecessary. This thing exists in the Personal Data Protection Act of Bulgarian citizens. Once again, I stress: it is time to remove.. whether we are going to remove it now or in time, the UNN will be dropped, and such a number will be entered so that there are no personal data and no personal data are stolen, because many people are really afraid to give up their UNN. You know how many embezzlements they get, how many companies they steal, how many documentary scams there are exactly on the basis of the CNN, which I highly doubt everyone then destroys the lists of the CNN they receive, and they don't copy them and they don't keep them. I call on you to support the introduction of this unique identification number and to drop the number throughout the text of the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u354	Thank you, dear Mr. Anastasov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Popov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u355	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This text shows the darkness to which we are headed in relation to the Election Code...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u356	Which text?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u357	The one we accept. Read it! ...sign signatures when registering the party in front of an authorised person. First of all, we're making here the Central Election Commission an investigative body, almost. Can such proceedings be made before the Central Election Commission in order to see who has placed whom and what signature has he put before? In what order will we gather this evidence, colleagues under the Criminal Procedure Code, under the Civil Procedure Code, are we looking for witness statements, special intelligence resources, what are we going to do? You give those who collect signatures, almost, some notary functions, which is ridiculous. Well, then give it to the referendums the same way! You are for more opportunity for people to be able to express their right to vote both in terms of the referendum and in terms of other types of elections. This text, which is proposed, is absurd, does not correspond to any democratic principles and foundations of the rule of law that we are trying to be. This is ridiculous! Moreover, the citizen at the same time has to assess the person who collects his signature whether he is legitimate and duly authorized. Well, he's going to be presented with some power of attorney and an I.D. card. Can he tell if this power of attorney is real or not real? You offer ridiculous texts. Please don't take them!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u358	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. First line. "The People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u359	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Popov! I can't help but pick up a line and not ask why a dark one? Where is the darkness and where is the gallows in this rule? Look, I'll answer you clearly. Someone has to be criminally responsible for all falsely recorded persons when making false signatures. If this is darkness, okay, we've offered darkness. But we're actually offering you responsibility. The Central Election Commission is not an authority that can investigate, but the prosecution is an authority that can investigate. Therefore, it is appropriate in a signature when I collect the signatures below to write:.. Collected by Daniel Kirilov, so that tomorrow when the person Ivan Petrov with specific ID says:.. I never signed this note........................... I will answer where I have his data and how I forged his signature.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u360	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? Here you go. The word for a reply has the popular representative Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Popov! I made a brief reference that surprised me quite a bit, but in 2013 it was seen, I suppose most colleagues remember that in the petition, which BSP had then submitted for the registration of the parliamentary elections, there were about 400, maybe more were, people who had died. If you can explain to us how you made this focus to sign dead people in the party registration petition, then maybe we will understand you for real and accept that this text should not be adopted. However, it seems to me that we all remember how this thing happened and how the deceased signed your signature. If I'm wrong about the number, of course, you can correct me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u362	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Popov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u363	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Slavov, when you collect 800 thousand actual signatures, I can explain how this number works. Until then, we can talk about quite other things. In each petition, of course there are signatures that are invalid. This is subsequently established in the verification. Dear Mr. Kirilov, and it is dark - and it is - mad because with the introduction of such texts any party that wants to register, coalitions or initiative committees may not be registered. Maybe that's what you're after. I told her earlier, this Code is for your personal use and use, and it is not for the public benefit and public benefit. With regard to your reply, see for a reference how a Bulgarian court, when in a protocol of a sectary election commission, a municipal electoral commission establishes how many signatures are false and invalid that the protocol was real. Look, check it out, do this reference, and then let's argue and talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u364	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal made by MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 92 MPs: 27, against 46, abstentioned 19. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Anastasov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 12, against 39, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote of the importer for § 68, which is supported by the Commission and shall be placed in its report under the relevant numbering. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 64 against 24 abstentions 7. Paragraph 68 by importer has been accepted. Here you go. Someone didn't get a vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u365	Yeah. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u366	Yes, thank you. Revoting procedure. Voted 103 MPs: 70 against 27, abstention 6. Paragraph 68 by importer has been accepted. Negative vote on the public representative Georgi Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u367	Dear Mr. President, I voted against. I don't know if it's the most accurate definition that it's dark, but that it's unnecessary and it can be harmful, I'm sure, because there are cases and appeals that can prevent the registration of participants in the electoral process. If a person who has signed and used someone else's identity card, then the person authorised by the party, although present, has become an accomplice. And against this background, which can be attacked and challenged, I would like to remind you of the practice and, more precisely, the case that my colleague is merely quoting. In Varna, a party challenged the truthfulness of a protocol. The forensics proved that the five signatures were fake. The Court considered that since false signatures were made, there were no signatures under this document and, referring to the law, that the lack of signature did not render the protocol invalid, acknowledged the actual results of this false protocol, in which there was no signature. So that could, and one legislation has allowed it, and with that, we open up the possibility of attacking the political opponent with something that is absolutely fictional. It's a bad text. Extra text, which is why I voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u368	Paragraph 69. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u369	Under § 69, a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 69 to engulf." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 69, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u370	Statements? I won't. I vote on Mr Karadayi's proposal and the Commission does not support it. They voted 100 MPs: 26, Against 56, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 69. They voted 101 MPs: for 76, against 25, there are no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u371	According to § 70, an offer by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 70 to engulf." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 70, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u372	Statements? Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u373	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Here, at § 70, we are practically continuing what we voted just a moment ago because of art. 138 in this Law it says that the Central Election Commission immediately after the completion of the registration of the parties sends to the regional or municipal electoral committees a list and so on. When there is an appeal procedure how, honourable Members, the Central Election Commission will immediately send these lists to me here, it is not clear to me. It is obvious that there will be such information, which will obviously be preliminary, for deleted parties and coalitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u374	Any lines to Mr. Popov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Karadayi and a group of Members of Parliament.. The Commission does not support it. They voted 101 MPs: 25, against 57, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 70.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u375	Vote 92 MPs: 72 against 19, abstention 1. Paragraph 70 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u376	Under § 71, a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 71 to Inquiry." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Anastasov: The following amendment and addition shall be made in § 71: seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 140, para. 3, p. 6 after the words "suppliers" the single civil number is replaced by the same unique identification number as "WIN" and after the words "Supporters" the party is replaced by "supplied" after the words "supplied" by the Coalition. After the word "supplied" the single civil number is added. The word "supplied" is replaced by "supplied" is replaced by "supplied" after the words "supplied by the Coalition" and "supplied" is replaced by "supplied" and replaced by "supplied" and replaced by the word "supposed" by the Coalition." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 71, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u377	Statements? There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 102 MPs: 26, against 58, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Georgi Anastasov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 11 against 51, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 71, which is supported by the Commission and becomes a paragraph with the corresponding numbering in its report. 100 MPs voted: 79, against 21, no abstentions. Paragraph 71 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u378	Paragraph 72. A proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to be The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 72, which shall become the relevant paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u379	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 15 against 72, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 72, which is supported by the Commission and shall be placed in its report with the corresponding numbering. They voted 105 MPs: for 85, against 20, no abstentions. Paragraph 72 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u380	Paragraph 73. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 73, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number. Proposal by the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov for the creation of a new § 73a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with the relevant number: ????????????????? In Chapter 9, in the name of Section IV, the words "Coalitions and local coalitions' are replaced by "Coalitions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u381	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, I propose that, in relation to the votes held and the removal of the proposals for the abolition of local coalitions, a paragraph with a corresponding number, which makes changes to Chapter 9 in the name of Section IV and deletes the words "Coalitions and local coalitions" to be not supported by the plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u383	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 23, against 73, abstentioned 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 73, which is supported by the Commission and shall be placed in its report with the corresponding numbering. They voted 106 MPs: 88, against 18, no abstentions. Paragraph 73 by importer has been accepted. I put to the vote the Commission proposal to create a new paragraph with the corresponding numbering and content. One of the importers of the proposal has just called not to support this Commission proposal. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: for 3, against 85, abstention 18. The Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with its content has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u384	Paragraph 74. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 74, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u385	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 21, against 76, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 74, supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: for 86, against 18, no abstentions. Paragraph 74 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u386	Paragraph 75. A proposal by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in § 75 t. One down. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 75, which becomes § 58: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 148 is repealed. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 59: ............... 59................................................................... This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u387	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u388	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As one of the importers, I call on you, in respect of § 75, not to support the Commission's proposal, by which we cancel art. 148 and support the text of the importer. In respect of art. 149, which is reflected in the report as a new § 59, I propose the following amendment: ................................................................................... And not the whole text, since the proposal to be voted on under § 75 provides that the entire House will support this.. dropping the requirement when registering a local coalition or coalition in the municipal electoral commission, or a party, respectively, to present the certificate of registration by the Central Election Commission, i.e. the Central Election Commission directly to provide the relevant municipal electoral commission with information about the registration of the party or coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u389	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal made by MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 20, against 73, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the Commission for the revision of § 75, which becomes § 58, but one of the importers of this version has just called not to support this text. They voted 94 MPs: 1 against 73, abstention 20. The Commission's proposal has not been accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for § 75. Vote 105 MPs: 90 against 11, abstention 4. The text of the importer for § 75 has been accepted. We are voting on the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Christian Mitev to the Commission's proposal to create a new § 59 after art. 149 to be added para. 2. We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Christian Mitev from the parliamentary tribune. They voted 102 MPs: for 93, against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with its respective numbering on the report, together with the newly adopted proposal by the Parliamentary Representative Christian Mitev, which sounds like: Paragraph 149. 2 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u390	They voted 111 MPs: 105, against 5, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u391	Suggested by the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov: ##75b. ##75b. ###75b. Article 150 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 60: ........................................................ § In art. 150 words "Coalitions and local coalitions" are replaced by "Coalitions" and "Coalitions" or "Coalitions" are replaced by "Coalitions" and the words "Coalitions" and "Coalitions."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u392	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u393	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament and, in this case, I call on you as an importer not to support the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph set out in the report as § 60 and to withdraw the proposal which the Commission does not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u394	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Colleagues, the unsupported proposal has been withdrawn. The Commission has proposed to us the creation of a new § 60 with a specific version, but they have called on us not to comply with the Commission's proposal. We vote. They voted 116 MPs: 1 against 82, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u395	Proposal by the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Danail Kirilov is created § 75a. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 61: ......... 61..................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words "Initiative Committee" shall be formed by three to seven voters and shall be replaced by the "Initiative Committee" shall be formed by not less than 50 voters. 2. In para. 3 the number
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u396	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u397	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I call on you not to support the Commission's proposal to create this new paragraph. It has become clear from the discussions made following the Commission's report that the number of signatures of the initiative committee is not so crucial in this case, but the number of signatures it collects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u398	A line to Mr. Mitev? I won't. You want the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u399	Thank you, Madam President. My speech is only with regard to the first proposal "Initiative Committee" is formed from three to seven to replace it with less than 50 voters. Please note that there may also be an initiative committee where there is also a vote for mayor of a populated area where it is currently over 100 people. Whether that will change or not, we have yet to see. In practice, over 50 voters means that the entire population should enter this initiative committee and that no other initiative committee can be established. I'm making an editorial amendment. The Initiative Committee is formed by not less than seven voters. That's t. 1 in para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u400	Did you hear Mr. Mitev call us not to have this text at all?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u401	The Election Code also contains a minimum of 3 to 7s. I suggest it's not less than 7 is because if it's not the text, it's actually going to be the old rule.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u402	- What's the line? I won't. The debate is closed. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph for changes in art. 151, but following the systematics of the last votes, Mr. Mitev addressed the national representation of this proposal by the Commission not to be supported. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. They voted 118 MPs: for 4, against 91, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. This amendment to the Election Code does not make any changes to art. 151, which is why I cannot submit your procedural proposal, Mr. Popov. We continue with the proposal of the MP Georgi Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u403	Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Anastasov for the creation of a new § 75a with the following text: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 153, para. 3, p. 1 the words "the single civil number' shall be replaced by "unique identification number' (WIN). The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u404	Are you withdrawing it, Mr. Anastasov, because it has to do with previous texts that have already been voted, so it loses its meaning, but you insist that we vote on it? Okay. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Anastasov's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 116 MPs: 9 against 85, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u405	Proposal by Mitev, Simeonov, Kirilov, which the Commission supports in general, for the creation of § 76a.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u406	What's this paragraph gonna say?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u407	The Commission proposes to create a new § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 157 para. 3 is
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u408	Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u409	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, in view of the votes that have taken place so far, I call on you not to support the Commission's proposal and to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u410	Statements? I won't. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. Voted 103 MPs: 3 against 85 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u411	By Paragraph 76...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u412	Mrs. Atanasova, do not read these paragraphs, but only about the changes in which member it is. Otherwise, we'll be confused.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u413	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 154 is created. 5. The Commission supports the text of the importer to create para. 5 in art. 154...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u414	...which becomes a corresponding new paragraph. The text of the importer is fully supported by the Commission. Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of changes in art. 154, where a new para is created. 5. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u415	Velizar Enchev's proposal in art. 159, para. 4 is replaced by the number The Commission does not support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u416	I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u417	In my opinion, there is some technical error, Mr. Enchev, because of art. 159 there is no such subparagraph, but this proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u418	Under art. 161, para. 1 a proposal has been made by the importer, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u419	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of § 77 by importer. Vote 97 MPs: 90 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u420	Proposal from Mitev, Simeonov, Kirilov. The Commission supports it. The Commission proposes to create a new § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 163, para. 3 the words of the local coalitions and the coalitions or the coalitions are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u421	Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u422	Thank you, Madam President. In view of the previous votes, I call on you not to support the Commission's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u423	Statements? I won't. I am voting on the Commission's proposal for a new paragraph, for which we have just been called in the opposite sense, and this is the logic of the votes held so far. Vote 109 MPs: for 4, against 89, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u424	According to § 78 there is a proposal of Mitev, Simeonov, Kirilov. The Commission shall support it, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 78, which shall be renumbered accordingly: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 172, para. 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 and 2 the words "30 days' shall be replaced by "30 working days'. 2. In para. 6 shall be added at the end within 6 months of the expiry of the period under para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u425	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create the relevant paragraph on the report on changes in art. 172 at the same time as the changes in para. 1 and 2 and para. 6. Please vote on the Commission proposal. They voted 114 MPs: 99, against 12, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u426	Proposal by Kiril Tsochev for dropping § 79. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs for § 79 and his dismissal. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 79, which shall become § 68 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u427	Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u428	Madam President, honourable Members, in this provision we, as importers, had proposed that the election campaign be opened not 30 but 21 days before the election day. As a result of many discussions, debates, according to the general will of all colleagues in the coalition format, I call on you to leave the norm as it is in the current version. Which parties want a more optimal period, which we want a more civilized campaign, not to disgust and repel voters, we will probably approach some shorter, tighter campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u429	I understand, Mr. Kirilov, that you support and call on the MPs to support the proposal of... [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] No, this is Mr. Tsochev and a group of MPs and Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs who propose dropping the shorter deadline. You have the floor, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u430	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, once again Mr. Danail Kirilov surprises us with a reversal in the position of political party GERB, evidently under the donation and under the pressure of the coalition partners. A nice proposal, a nice idea that was widely supported by the Committee on Legal Affairs, namely to cut the election campaign from 30 to 21 days. Now all of a sudden, we hear he's not supporting himself anymore. I'd really like to hear some serious arguments, why don't you support it? Not GERB, GERB is clear, but those who so insist on maintaining the long term of 30 days, why are they so demanding to involve citizens with themselves and generally with their irradiation with election campaigning and messages, after we all know very well from experience that the real campaign is taking place in the last two weeks. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Until then, especially in Gabrovo, people are resting, doing a lot more pleasant things than going to election meetings.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u431	You're not coming.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u432	So, honourable Members, both from the point of view and of saving financial resources, and from the point of view, if you want and for the Bulgarian citizens to have a little more time for themselves and not for politicians, this idea of reducing the campaign by a week is very good. I really call on GERB this time to show firmness and consistency, not to succumb to coalition pressure and to keep their word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u433	First line, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u434	Mr. Kazak, I'm surprised! A politician of such an international liberal level would want to limit citizens' right to inform themselves about the election process, wouldn't I understand?! You should want to increase the election campaign for more than 30 days. Otherwise, voters in Gabrovo, normal voters, have other jobs every night. That shouldn't bother you. The Balkans are people fixed up. You're not from around here. I'm from there. Gabrovo people are awake, during the day they think about elections, at night they do other things. Don't worry about their activities. The truth is, we all know that the first week of each election campaign is just a technical campaign about filming candidates, printing materials. If you are offering a three-week campaign, in fact 21 days are exactly three weeks, you want to do two weeks. That's not liberal, Mr. Kazak. Regarding Mr. Kirilov. He is a very cooperative partner listening carefully to everyone's arguments, I am sure that including yours he has listened carefully and therefore makes such a proposal. But the arguments to cut the campaign in no way can we call them liberal or democratic. You amaze me, you're a man of liberal beliefs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u435	Mrs. Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u436	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kazak, it is an established practice for the campaign to be 30 days, because we have 28 districts and 31 electoral districts. In addition, people should have the right to an informed choice, to hear more of these ideas, policies, and not to give the impression that elected and targeted people are appointed to electoral posts. Let them be informed in more detail in the campaign, to hear policies, ideas, debates, and nothing prevents your political power from conducting your campaign 21 days or less if you are convinced of your results.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u437	Third line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u438	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, I did not know that Ruse was in the Balkan but thanks to you I learned that a man who was born in Ruse is a Balkan. In general, we are all from Bulgaria anyway, but let's talk seriously. If you want enough time to inform the voters, to introduce them to your candidates, then indeed, Mr. Karakachanov, raise candidates who are widely known. So there will be less need to introduce voters to them, to explain to them how much better they are than others and so on. No one prevents any party from preparing, printing their posters, posters, hats, T-shirts as early as they want. This isn't part of the election campaign. It is more important what messages will be used to broadcast voters and, above all, what candidates we will present them with. If the candidates aren't good for anything, if you're willing to campaign for three months, you still won't convince the voters to support them. Last but not least, you have already made the vote mandatory, do not add to the cost of any unnecessary long election campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u439	Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u440	Madam President, honourable Members! If you remember, at first reading I stood on this stand, I see that Mr. Tsvetanov is coming in and that's good, and I asked Mr. Tsvetanov what the motives are and why he proposed cutting the election campaign from one month to three weeks. I am pleased with this decision that the ruling coalition has taken, but I would like to hear the reasons for the importer's proposal to be three weeks and the reasons for the importer's proposal not to be three weeks but a month, as I can tell you what the reasons are. The reasons are that in this Parliament in most cases we do not decide anything in plenary, and everything is decided in the room of the President of the National Assembly, in this case Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva [[GRUNTING IN GERB]] . If this morning was not the so-called "Platica" with Mr. Speaker of Parliament with the participation of the Prime Minister, you would not have withdrawn this proposal, I would say repressively, Mr. Tsvetanov. So I ask you to stand here on the stand, Mr. Tsvetanov, and explain why you have proposed this shameful, repressive proposal to the parties with a smaller budget and why you are now withdrawing it and taking it the right way... Otherwise, if you don't go out on the stand now, I'll say that the backroom rules this parliament. [[Voices: "Eeeeeee" by GERB.]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u441	- What's the line? Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u442	Madam President, I want a personal explanation because my name has been quoted. What I would say is that the 43rd Parliament is different from any previous one in the last 25 years because the MPs and the parliamentary groups are seeking to reach consensus on texts to limit the possibility of populism and what you are doing to do it constantly from the parliamentary platform. [[Applause from GERB.]] It is extremely important for us to have stability in the country. We have all witnessed that over the past few days there have been so many interpretations, so many suggestions that have been made in public about the texts that today and tomorrow and the day after, perhaps we will continue until we adopt the Election Code, which have been false. And believe that when there is dialogue, the problems of the state can be solved, and a parliamentary consensus can be reached, which can be in the interest of the state and of all Bulgarian voters. I can only state that regardless of the rules that are in every electoral code or in the laws that have regulated how to conduct the elections, the parliamentary group of GERB and the political party GERB has never sought to change the rules of the game. Because we can win in any game and no matter who made the rules. We participated in elections when changes were made to the Election Code by Maya Manolova. You know that 2009 when the majority element was introduced in the votes, GERB was also able to win and have a first result. We have made these concessions because we have always believed that when there is consensus, we can be much more productive and raise the authority of the Bulgarian institution National Assembly. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u443	It was a personal explanation, so there's no possibility of a douche. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u444	Thank you, Madam President. As things have begun to emerge from the constructive manner of holding the meeting, I propose that the debate be terminated. [[Applause from GERB.]] To recall, however, importers have tolerantly invited to reject this text for 21 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u445	A reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u446	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Do not push such an important law as the Election Code! Give it a chance anyway, as far as I can see, there are no speakers. It doesn't make sense every time... Last term was the Cezo procedure. [[Laughter]] And now the Mitko procedure has appeared. In general, the same role is played by different colleagues, but ultimately let the National Assembly work as long as it needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u447	Colleagues, are there any other people who would like to speak? If there aren't any, I'm shutting it down without voting. I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I won't. The debate is closed. We save two minutes to vote, Mr. Bayraktarov. Colleagues, I put to the vote the proposals made by two groups of MPs - Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs, Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs who propose that § 79 be rejected, i.e. a 30-day campaign not be replaced by 21 as days. Vote 126 MPs: 108 against 13, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. There will be no change in art. 175. It stays the way it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u448	Under § 80, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from Svilen Ivanov in the order of art. 80, para. 4. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 80, which shall become the relevant paragraph: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "On a coalition involving parties that are entitled to a state subsidy under the Law on Political Parties, funds are provided for media packages in proportion to the share of parties involved in the coalition, which are not entitled to a state subsidy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u449	Statements? Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u450	Thank you, Madam President. Can Mr. Svilen Ivanov explain what he means by "deals" when it comes to coalition? It is very clear in the import text that the subsidy is granted in proportion to the number of parties involved in the coalition which are not entitled to a state subsidy. It's very clearly written down. And now suddenly Svilen Ivanov suggested that the number should be replaced by the case. Deeds of what? On the grant? What share of the subsidy for parties not eligible for subsidy? That's what I don't understand. So, basically, we're playing with changes that, instead of clearing things up, make them even more confused. Then the CEC will wonder how to apply this Election Code. It's a Gabrovo joke we're making here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u451	- What's the line? Statements? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u452	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about setting a limit: if in a coalition there are parties who are entitled to receive subsidies, not to receive the subsidy from each party, but to obtain it according to their share. That's the simplest way of putting it. If it's not clear, repeat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u453	- What's the line? Mr. Kirilov, a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u454	Dear colleagues, I will probably repeat my colleague Svilen Ivanov when in the coalition we have such partners who receive a subsidy and such partners who do not receive a subsidy, say in a coalition of three partners two receive a subsidy, and one of them does not receive, the amount of funds he will receive for media packages will be one third of the total amount due for one entity. It's a question of editing, the meaning is the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u455	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Karadayi and a group of Members of Parliament that § 80 be dismissed, the Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 118 MPs: 21, against 79, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are voting in the version of the Commission supporting the importers under § 80 for changes to art. 178, para. 1. Vote 112 MPs: 91 against 9, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u456	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 81, which shall be renumbered accordingly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u457	Statements? I won't. We vote. They voted 116 MPs: 113, none against, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u458	Proposal by the National Representative Svilen Ivanov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of Art. 180. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 71.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u459	It will be with some numbering a new paragraph for changes in art. 180.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u460	Exactly. ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 180 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "the contracts', the grant contracts shall be added including the grant contracts. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word the information is added to the contracts for payment and grant; (b) c. 5 is finally added to the contracts in question. 3. In para. 3: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word the information is added to the contracts for payment and grant; (b) c. 5 is finally added to the contracts for which the contract is due.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u461	Statements, coworkers? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new paragraph and changes to art. 180. Vote 112 MPs: 95, against 12, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u462	Proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan, Mariana Georgieva and Hussein Hafuzov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 181, para. 2 a new sentence is created with the following content: In individual cases and in the case of compulsory Bulgarian translation, another language is also allowed. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u463	Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u464	They're the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u465	In your proposal I am talking about the proposal of Mr. Karadayi and a group of MPs, you are talking about a new § 190,...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u466	Technical error.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u467	...but you don't say which member and where to be it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u468	Technical error.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u469	Here you go, Mr. Kazak, and you say it in front of the microphone. [[Reply of rapporteur Desislava Atanasova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u470	Yes, precisely, Madam President, our proposal together with this proposal, which has been reported, has also had to be reported because it appears that there has been a technical error. We also offer in art. 181, para. 2 to create a sentence two to read: "In cases where the campaign is conducted in another language, translation is provided in Bulgarian. You know that's our principle. It is shared by all international organizations and by the Venice Commission and by all OSCE missions that monitor the elections in Bulgaria. This is one of the main recommendations that are addressed each time to Bulgaria by both the Venice Commission and PACE and the OSCE observation missions in Bulgaria. Dear colleagues, sooner or later this unacceptable restriction of the rights of Bulgarian citizens to receive information and to inform them from the election campaign and in another language should be dismissed if we really want Bulgaria to become a European state. If we want Bulgaria to no longer be compared to other countries that are far from meeting European standards, if we want Bulgaria not to be compared to Macedonia, for example, such unacceptable restrictions should be dropped in our electoral legislation. You know very well that during election campaigns guests come from abroad, high-ranking leaders of European formations, to which belong part of the main political forces in Bulgaria. You know that here come leaders of European institutions, who are also in one way or another involved in the election campaign. So we must not allow the Law to be applied in one way to others. You know very well that there have already been cases filed, penal decrees against acts drawn up in this text. There are judgments which discourage these acts, that is, the Bulgarian court has in many cases proved that this text is unconstitutional and contrary to the European documents for the protection of human rights to which Bulgaria is a country. You know that there are cases filed in Strasbourg, so sooner or later the European Court of Human Rights will condemn Bulgaria for this text if it is not removed. Dear colleagues, now is the time, now you have the golden opportunity to prevent this danger and remove this text, which for nothing serves nothing, for nothing good it serves. I am surprised that once again, here in this Chamber, some of our former fellow party members who have left the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, who otherwise claim to be authentic defenders of the rights and freedoms of minorities, are now absent again. They must have something more important to do. Obviously, the intention to establish a party for them is more important than to stand here and defend the rights and freedoms of citizens, but the Bulgarian electorate will not remain interested and will notice and will take into account their behaviour in dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u471	Colleagues, in the report, the proposal of Mr Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs is not written in which text it is to, but it is to art. 181, para. 2, where a sentence second is offered. Any lines to Mr. Kazak? A statement requested Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u472	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kazak, it's obvious you're a fan of Gabrovo jokes. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Just a moment ago, you were explaining that the campaign could be two weeks, that is, it's okay if two weeks is not spoken in any other language. But in your attempt to deceive the MPs that this is almost a violation of constitutional rights, it is appropriate to remind you: in the Bulgarian Constitution it is written that the study of the Bulgarian language is the right and duty of every Bulgarian citizen. Then I will add: education by the age of 16 is mandatory. That is, there is no hypothesis in which a Bulgarian adult citizen is not educated enough, a citizen who does not know and understand Bulgarian language, because education under the Bulgarian Constitution is compulsory. Otherwise, Mr. Kazak, I am beginning to think that you are a very open supporter of illiteracy, of stimulating the poor integration of certain marginal and minority groups of the Bulgarian population, which does not suit you, as a person who confesses Euro-Atlantic values, liberalism and so on. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Henceforth, all the conversations that you insinuate, as far as I understand, have also tried the psychic ability to develop here, drawing in advance what will be the decision of a particular court, which I envy you clairvoyant abilities, but this is your dream to be but a prankster, and a clairvoyant. [[Laughter]] , let us not fall into such details and details that are simply untenable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u473	First line? Mr. Kazak, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u474	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov! I am a MP from Gabrovo, so I have an affinity for Gabrovo jokes. [[Laughter and lines.]] A moment ago, I appealed here to the adoption of the Election Code not to make Gabrovo jokes, that is, to take this task seriously enough and to adopt texts that are, first of all, legal and constitutionally relevant; and secondly, to have an elementary mind and meaning. In this case, we propose to abolish an unacceptable ban that goes against all European...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u475	Mr. Kazak, you're making a second statement. You're in replica procedure. What do you disagree with Mr. Bayraktarov's statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u476	I do not agree with Mr. Bajraktarov that almost the Bulgarian Constitution requires the election campaign to be conducted in the official language. There's no such thing! The Bulgarian Constitution by no means obliges the ordinary legislator to impose such a restriction. On the contrary, all European human rights documents state on the contrary that citizens should be given the opportunity to receive information, including during the election campaign, and in another language other than the official one. And not because they don't know the official language of anything like that! Because they know other languages and have the right to receive information and election messages in these languages as well. Be assured that when we remove this restriction, even you from the Patriotic Front will be able to address these voters in their mother tongue and perhaps some of them will find reason to support you. Try it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u477	Second line? Mr. Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u478	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We got the argument a little nervous. The fact is that the opposition should use every excuse to prevent, to hinder, but I think we've come to extremes. Dear colleagues, agree that the campaign is two types. One is a long marathon jog for four years, you walk the regions, you campaign, you irradiate, you convince, so you can introduce yourself during the elections. The other one is the master of the short sprint, one or two, and the election has come. In this case you have four years of your birth father's, mother's language you can turn to all your constituents and do it all the time. And no one's bothering you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u479	The line is to Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u480	To Mr. Bayraktarov, of course! [[Laughter, excitement.]] Some 30 days won't stop. Here, Mr. Bajraktarov, you answer me: since you have been able to speak some mother tongue of your constituents for four years, why do some 30 days prevent you? Here, we have other colleagues who have a mother tongue, say Turkish in this case. [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] It must be very difficult for you to speak in Bulgarian here, but you are trying and doing it? [[Extreme noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u481	Colleagues, let's return the good tone to debate and discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u482	It is not a problem for 30 days during the campaign to speak the Bulgarian language after you have been taking it for four years in the language you have judged. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] It is not a problem to speak here in normal Bulgarian language, since you know and you can also speak other languages. There are people who know other languages, but still the Bulgarian one is the one who is normal, who is under the Constitution and which is used in the country. Let's end this debate and move on to the next points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u483	Third line? The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u484	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Kazak, basically in your line, you agreed with me, which makes no sense to make a duplicate of your line. [[Reply by National Representative Chetin Kazak.]] You yourself have confirmed your ignorance and bad listening. I said that learning the Bulgarian language is the right and obligation of every Bulgarian citizen. I added that according to the Bulgarian Constitution education by the age of 16. You added that there is no problem that all Bulgarian citizens know perfectly Bulgarian language and understand it. Therefore, you agreed with me. If I have to enter into the spirit of the line of colleague Emil Dimitrov, everything else enters the area of retail nagging, as there is no problem 30 days during this campaign to speak in the official language for the state. This is the Bulgarian language. This is correct, as all other documents, propaganda materials are distributed in the official Bulgarian language. Thus, there will be no opportunity to be misled and brought into change of mind voters, as all posters and canvassing materials will be printed in the official Bulgarian, native language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u485	Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? Mr. Karadaye, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u486	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, this is about how much we, as MPs and as citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, want to be part of the European Union, how much we want to respect the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, how much we want to be equal citizens of the European Union, how much we feel and support ourselves being equal citizens of the European Union, as a measure if we use the equality of citizens in the Republic of Bulgaria. What do I mean? Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, really in art. 3 of the Constitution is said that the official language in the Republic is Bulgarian. But the Constitution goes on after art. Article 3 is amended as follows: 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 3 The Republic of Bulgaria is said to be involved in the construction and development of the European Union. And it goes on and on and on and on and there's art. 5, para. 4 where it is said, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament that international treaties ratified by constitutional order, promulgated and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria are part of the domestic law of the country. And pay attention, they have an advantage over those rules of domestic law that contradict them. And if we continue in this spirit, fellow Members, there is also a subsequent legislative act of the European Union - Directive 109 of 1993 - with all its amendments so far - where different types and forms of elections are regulated. Including this unconstitutional Election Code, which we are currently adopting in this House, governs some issues related to the European elections, namely the elections for MEPs from the Republic of Bulgaria, on the one hand, the elections for local authorities. This Election Code deals with the issues that, including citizens who are not Bulgarian citizens of the Member States of the European Union, not only can they vote, not only can they elect members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria and local authorities in the Republic of Bulgaria, but they can also be candidates for such! From this point of view, they have the full right to be able to conduct their campaign in their own language, and those who will choose local authorities and members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria have the right to an informed choice. From this point of view, the restriction on the campaign to be solely and only in Bulgarian, including contrary to the Constitution. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u487	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u488	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are witnessing that the leaders of an opposition party are changing, but the manner of speaking and its mentoring tone remain. It has already become a practice for this party to throw accusations, findings that exist only in their minds and their perception of the world. [[Reply from DPS: "Constitution! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u489	If you can read, read the Constitution!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u490	Madam President, I think that some people's behaviour is getting out of hand with their status as MPs. I'm saying it too softly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u491	Colleagues, please, tiredness is speaking. Let us maintain proper conduct in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u492	What is the essence of this proposal? Recognition in another language, regardless of who, as an official language strongly contradicts the Constitution! [[DPS lines.]] The adoption of a provision in the Election Code, which allows for the election campaign of anyone other than the official language, is anti-constitutional, because it means not only coffee talks, it means broadcasts of official election videos on television, means official election posters, means official election materials! That means status in the second official language! [[DPS lines.]] Please don't interrupt me!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u493	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u494	When IMRO speaks, others should listen! [[Laughter and banging on DPS banks.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u495	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u496	That means marking territory! This means claims not for a minority, but for a majority in the so-called regions affected! This is the path the DPS is taking our country! This is the way they want to lead us to cantonization and federalisation, to a two-national state! Thank you. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u497	These are your fictional pranks, punctuation!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u498	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u499	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Mihov, I don't know which of the texts of the Constitution and what I just said was what you're trying to insinuate. Obviously you do not want to refer to texts from the Constitution and do not want to understand the Bulgarian Constitution, but rather you rely on your suggestions, regardless of what the texts in the basic Law are, will have priority over the Constitution. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u500	Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u501	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Mihov, you are an intelligent man. I did not expect to this extent that you would divert a principled dispute, mostly legal, in such a direction a simple, extremely xenophobic and nationalistic one that had nothing to do with it. You're living in some parallel world of cantonization, a fictional world. DPS has been here for 26 years. DPS is a party that has proven to be national. A European and Bulgarian political force, thanks to which Bulgaria became a member of NATO and the European Union. So we have yet to respond to similar accusations since the early 1990s, apparently some people have simply not moved a step from their way of thinking since then. However, I would like to remind you, and especially the Vice-President, who is from IMRO, that last week or pό, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling on the European Union to also declare Turkish as the official language of the European Union. The reaction of the MEP from IMRO was not appropriate at all. When Europe seeks to respond adequately to the realities, such reactions as yours, your colleagues, were in the European Parliament, or in the Bulgarian Parliament, sound so retro that you can hardly convince voters to support you now and in the future. Thank you. [[Replication by the National Representative Ruchen Riza. Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u502	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. The third line is Slavcho Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u503	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Mihov, in some ways you're wrong. I'll tell you why. The DPS party, as it claims itself, as there are people of Bulgarian ethnic origin in it, there are also such MPs, in this respect they even claim that there are Bulgarian citizens, in which there is nothing wrong, but in this respect, when they propose to speak in the mother tongue, Mr. Mihov, they put in discriminatory conditions these Bulgarian citizens who are their sympathizers. What will Bulgarian citizens understand about speaking their mother tongue? Does everyone need to know this language because it is not official in the Bulgarian state? That's what I want you to answer me, Mr. Mihov. These Bulgarian citizens who sympathize with the DPS, how will they understand what is said in the election campaign of the DPS when it is in the mother tongue? Therefore, Mr. Mihov, I would like you to answer this question to me - is this not discrimination against those Bulgarian citizens who are members of this party?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u504	Here you go, Mr. Mihov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u505	We are all Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u506	Dear Mr. Chairman! I'll start backwards. Mr. Atanasov, well, this is a manifestation of the liberal populism of the DPS, and that will be the end of the comment. Mr. Kazak, you said you were a MP from Gabrovo. No, you're a representative from Turkey. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] You entered from Gabrovo a multi-mandated constituency with fewer votes than the IMRO candidate, whom I had the honour to know and is a good friend of mine, thanks to the redistribution of the votes from Turkey. I think I'm right. As far as the Constitution is concerned, fellow Members, do not attack me on the line of incompetence! It's unwarranted and a little personal. I will even read it to you in the official language in the Republic of Bulgaria. 3: The official language in the Republic is Bulgarian. Art. 36, para. 3: The cases in which only the official language is used are referred to in the law. In this sense, your favorite topic about the Constitution is such an old tale that it conceals a very clear already, in recent years expressed wish of the party DPS, expressed by the former, and the current leader, for a change of the Constitution, the so-called unfolding of the reformist power, is a change of the Constitution that strengthens the unity of the Bulgarian people, based on a common cultural value codifying in the Bulgarian language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u507	Another lie. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u508	Personal explanation of the public representative Krasimir Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u509	Tell Macedonian!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u510	I heard the line here, tell Macedonian! I tell you in Macedonian, it is the purest Bulgarian language.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u511	For the Macedonian language!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u512	I'm telling you, it's Bulgarian. I didn't make that up. All the world's linguists admit it, but there's no point in getting into this argument. Dear colleagues of the DPS, this dispute is unnecessary. As you can see, in plenary it creates emotions and even greater emotions and doubts creates in Bulgarian society. I understand that this thesis you are taking out to oppose one another who are trying to play the big lawyers of Turkey. There's no need! We are all Bulgarian MPs, we are elected Bulgarian citizens. You can see that after 25 years in the Balkans, just on the basis of such experiments, the problems in the former Yugoslavia were received in Bosnia with an imaginary nation and in general throughout the former Yugoslavia. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Let's not get into a historical argument. I don't argue about other things with you. Don't argue with me about history. Needless is this theme you are raising, to further divide the Bulgarian society. Nobody's profiting from that. So I suggest... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] You have a clear thesis, the rest of the Chamber has another thesis, I propose that we end this debate and move on to a vote, otherwise we will sharpen the rhetoric, which makes no sense and does not benefit the Bulgarian democracy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u513	That's not a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u514	I'm just suggesting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u515	Why do you explain?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u516	I explain because I was mentioned to be explained to me and to my colleague the MEP Angel Dzhambazki... The explanation is simple. Turkey may have proposed the Turkish language to become official. It's one thing to want to, another to be able to, third and fourth is to happen. Isn't that right? I think Turkey doesn't need you to be their lawyer. They have other lawyers. Don't get involved in this role, it doesn't suit you, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u517	It's about us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u518	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. Procedure supplied by the national representative Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u519	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Again, at the risk of anyone being offended, I do not want this to happen, so I asked the dispute to stop before we said words to each other that there is no going back or too much people will be offended. Four years you have the opportunity, thirty days do not confuse you. You are currently speaking in Bulgarian here, and you are speaking to each other throughout your life. I don't think you're upset that you're speaking in Bulgarian right now. Nowhere in the quoted documents that you have said the Constitution and the others, there is no text in which to write: "Bulgaria can only be a European state if it is holding the elections in Bulgaria in Turkish. I ask that we put an end to this dispute and move on to a vote, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u520	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Emil Dimitrov to end the debates. Vote 131 MPs: for 101, against 28, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Debates have been suspended. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Mariana Georgieva and Hussein Hafuzov. The Commission does not support the proposal. The same proposal was made by MPs Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Please vote on the proposals of the quoted MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u521	The proposals are different. We want a separate vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u522	Okay, cancel the vote. I put to the vote, first, the proposal made by the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Mariana Georgieva and Hussein Hafizov. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 122 MPs: for 5, against 100, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from MPs Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is also not supported by the Commission. Please vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u523	My fellow Members, I ask for order in this Chamber. [[Supreme between MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Mustafa Ahmed.]] Please, the Quaestors, secure order in the hall! Mr. Bayraktarov, take your place. The Quaestors, please provide order in the hall and take Mr. Bayraktarov to his place! Vote 128 MPs: 24, against 101, abstention 3. The offer is not accepted. [[Replications between MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Mustafa Ahmed.]] Mr. Bayraktarov, I will remove you from this room! Here's a negative vote. You have the floor, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u524	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, we from "Attack" voted against these insane proposals by the DPS, understandably why. The insolence of this party has indeed crossed all reasonable limits. I do not understand why, given that it is precisely and clearly described in art. 3 of the Constitution that the main language in Bulgaria is the Bulgarian language, why are some people from the DPS trying to read the Bulgarian Constitution as the devil the Gospel? After all, for years the MPs from the DPS have been campaigning in Turkish, Turkish, in the areas they visit! And that's no secret to anyone! After all, it is no secret to anyone that what they have offered us is actually already the advertising campaigns during elections.. e. on state television, on the National Television.................................. to be in Turkish! Is that what you're offering us? You offer us on national, state radio, your ads before the elections are in Turkish. Is that what you're offering us? Do the same rights have the Turks in Germany? Is that how it is in Germany, or isn't it? After all, gentlemen of the DPS, if you want to speak Turkish, go back to Turkey! [[(Sighs) Ooh! From DPS.)]] Do this good for the Bulgarian people. Go to Turkey, Anatola, Izmir and speak Turkish and whatever language you want! [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u525	Fifteen-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u526	Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u527	Dear Madam President, Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen! We are expressing a sharp protest and we pay attention to Mr. Glauchev that the least he could do was make a note of the previous one. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to these topics, namely identity, language, I always approach this tribune with a certain dose of shame, with oppression, but also disturbing is everything that is said with prejudice, with prejudice, with ironic remarks, even with a mocking tone. We strongly object to this tone of the National Assembly. What's more, when we talk about these topics, and they're basic, sacral topics, you want to convince us that we're in an enemy environment. That's unacceptable. And in terms of how to talk about election campaign, let's do an experiment. Let us refer to the Constitutional Court and let it rule or keep in mind the cases in the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u528	This is not the way to lead! It's a statement!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u529	Why is it that a foreign language is banned in Georgia alone during an election campaign? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Every man has his own worldview, his own world sense. When he narrowed down when he focused, he said: "This is my point of view! " The narrower the base worldview, the easier it is to create a base point of view. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u530	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u531	I urge you to have a wider sense of the world. I urge you to be wiser!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u532	Your time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u533	I call on you to respect each citizen of the Republic of Bulgaria identity and serenity. No one can kick me out of the Republic of Bulgaria, no matter what his name is, no matter what my name is! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u534	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. I have the opportunity to respond to your procedure within two minutes. I would have made an immediate remark if the riots had not occurred in the Chamber, because of which I gave the break of 15 minutes, which does not prevent me from making a remark to the MP Ilian Todorov about the lines he made from the parliamentary platform. Go ahead, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u535	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose that we extend the working time until the adoption of § 136 by importer from the so-called Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u536	A reverse opinion? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u537	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am making a reverse procedural proposal. Either way, everyone's getting tired and the tensions are rising. Tiredness is not a good advisor for making reasonable and correct decisions. In addition, I remind you that we are at an extraordinary meeting today. You know that extraordinary meetings have a fixed agenda and a fixed duration. It is not accepted, it is not a tradition for the National Assembly to extend the plenary session to extraordinary plenary sessions. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u538	My fellow Members, it is true that, by a decision of Friday, we are holding an extraordinary meeting today with a single item as an agenda, but this meeting is subject to all our procedural rules, as we have been able to make different procedures since the beginning of it. We were right to give an opportunity for a reverse opinion. I accept, Mr. Kazak, the position you have expressed along with the arguments you have put forward in support of this opinion. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made, which is admissible. There is no obstacle to the National Assembly changing the working hours, whether in an extraordinary plenary session. They voted 122 MPs: 88, against 34, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to § 82 by importer, aren't we?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u539	Dear Madam President, under Paragraph 82 of the proposal by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of Members of Parliament: "Paragraph 82 to engulf." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 82, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u540	Statements? Mr. Kazak. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please, no yelling!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u541	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we have proposed that this paragraph be dismissed for nothing else, but because it repeats an existing legal text in the Religions Act, in which it is also clearly written that religion cannot be used for political purposes and religion officials cannot participate in political life. So there is already a restriction in the special law concerning religion. I don't have to repeat myself here. It's unnecessary and it only creates tautology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u542	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Delchev. Second line, Mr. Stanilov. [[Heckling]] You want to be first? Here you go, Mr. Stanilov. [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me, Mr. Delchev. [[Heckling]] I didn't see him before. [[Noise and lines.]] The sun is shining on me, but it's good to see the sun. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u543	It's really in place here, and I'll tell you why. In the previous parliamentary elections, honourable colleagues from the DPS, hodjas who are priests and I respect your religion, did they campaign, did they lead election campaigning and for the benefit of whom? In favor of Qasim Dahl's party, it was against you. I know that for sure. I have seven cases where they've brought me exactly your constituents, what they're doing there. That is why this text I insist on staying to see who is what this country is. And who breaks her laws and who doesn't break them, because what I said is true! And now you will see what will happen in the next election, because they will all campaign for Lutvi Mestan and his Party DOT. And you'll get hurt again! [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u544	Second line, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u545	Dear Mr. Kazak, both you and I are lawyers, and we know the function of the Code. In this case, the function of the Election Code is to codify all matter related to the election. Since agitation is precisely an election-related matter, where better and in what particular place to ban the agitation by imams, regional mufti, also evangelists or Christian clergy, except in the Election Code?! The fact is that in the last election there was a lot of pep talk by spiritual people. This was especially observed in the districts of Razgradsko, Targovishtko, Haskovo, Kardzhaliysko. Obviously, the codification of this matter is essential, not only for citizens who need to know that it is forbidden and that religion should not be mixed with politics, but also for institutions that are called upon to comply with the law. Here, from this tribune, I would like to call on all those who, in the next election, witness agition from door to door by spiritual persons, whether they are in the Muslim or Christian clergy, to signal so that the competent authorities can apply the law because Bulgaria is a secular state. Bulgaria is not caliphatism, it is nothing else. In Bulgaria the law is such that politics is made by Bulgarian politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u546	Third line? I won't. Mr. Kazak, look at the hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u547	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am paying attention to you again in art. 7, para. 2 of the Religions Act clearly states that religious institutions and communities cannot engage in political activity. There's a clear text. Apparently, the proposal is dictated perhaps rather by that precedent when a Plovdiv bishop actively participates in the campaign. [[Laughter and excitement.]] But that's a precedent, that's an exception. Otherwise, in general, I have not encountered cases when spiritual persons campaign openly or explicitly for a particular political power. However, this text poses risks and the appeal that we heard from Mr. Delchev reinforces the fears that it can be used to really attack certain religious rites that are happening during the election campaign anyway. The election campaign does not mean that the religious rites of all faiths must be stopped and no one must do anything. I'm afraid someone is going to use this to start pouring supplies against this or that priest, that during a religious ritual, he almost didn't do election campaigning. My fellow Members, I appeal to you again, there is a text that is clear. It has existed since the very adoption of the Religious Law. All religious communities and their ministers are very aware of their duties and limitations. At least we DPS are worried. Don't speak for us. We do not worry at all that a religion will go to support this or that political power. We are convinced that all religious institutions in the country firmly respect their mission, the restrictions imposed on them by the Constitution and the Law, and will not embark on such an adventure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u548	Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u549	Madam President, honourable Members! I absolutely agree with the fact that election campaigning cannot be conducted by spiritual and religious persons, but I think the text will cause us problems from the point of view of the practice that we have all political parties with all faiths. I will give you a few examples and I will make a concrete proposal. Is religious campaigning the fulfillment of a certain religious ritual? This is not written in the text and will create a very serious ambiguity. In my long - term career during elections, I have had to invite Christian clergymen to perform one or another religious ritual, such as the consecration of an office. You know, we all use the achievements we make, sometimes in the election campaign, to consecrate a built building from, say, a ruling party, or to consecrate a built temple. Personally, it happened to me during a campaign several times to consecrate a newly built or renovated Christian temple. If there is no clear distinction in the text between agition and religious rites, we will bring the Central Election Commission, the regional governors and the authorities who respect and care for the implementation of these provisions to a serious problem. Perhaps clergymen will be punished for performing purely religious rituals. Therefore, I propose that, Madam President, editorially: if the text is adopted, if it does not fail, add: Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u550	Any lines to Mr. Tsonev? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Colleagues, I am voting on Mr. Mustafa Karadaye's proposal and a group of MPs § 82 by importer to be dismissed. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please don't call from the spot. Watch what the vote goes on. Vote 138 MPs: 27, against 90, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 82. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] By adopting the paragraph, if we accept it on a proposal from the Commission, so was your sentence, then I will put to the vote the supplement that you have proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u551	Vote 137 MPs: 111, against 24, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the proposal of Yordan Tsonev: in § 82, Art. 182, para. 5 is not an election campaign to perform religious rites. The alinea states: "You are not allowed to carry out election campaigning by religious ministers. "You are proposing a second sentence: "It is not pre-election campaigning to perform religious rites. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u552	What's a religious ritual?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u553	They are described as a prayer, opening of a temple.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u554	I would like to put to the vote Mr. Tsonev's proposal to add a second sentence to the vote, which is to say: "It is not an election campaign to perform religious rites.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u555	It's not an election campaign... it's not an election campaign.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u556	I wrote it down like he said. There's also a transcript of it in plural. [[Reply of MP Yordan Tsonev]] . Here, Mr. Tsonev says that I correctly reproclaimed what he shared. We are voting on Mr. Tsonev's proposal. They voted 120 MPs: 80 against 14, 26 abstentions. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. [[People representatives Danail Kirilov and Dimitar Delchev both want the word for procedure]] . The first one at the time is the first one on the right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u557	Madam President, I apologize to my colleague Delchev for cutting him off, but I would like to propose not only a re-voting but also a postponement of the vote on this proposal for the next day. So let's think about it, let's rephrase the text. Indeed, the ratio of concepts in much part. Let's say there's a ritual element in political activity. Let us consider how much this element can qualify as an agitation, or it is not necessary not to burden the texts unnecessarily. I propose a postponement of the vote on this version. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u558	Colleagues, we are currently in the midst of a collapse of procedural proposals. On the one hand, there is a request for a re-vote procedure. If I allow this procedure before Mr. Kirilov's procedure, his proposal to postpone this vote becomes meaningless. Viewed systematically, I think the broader concept is to give the opportunity to postpone the vote, then you will retain your right to revote, Mr. Delchev. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's procedure to postpone the vote he started, but it is not finished because there is a request for a re-voting according to the editorial supplement of Mr. Tsonev. Please vote. 130 MPs voted: 129 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u559	Under § 83, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission does not support the proposal: 'C § 83, in art. 183, in the new para. 6, p. 2, the number The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 83, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant numbering: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 183, para. 4 A sentence 2 is created: The use of the coat of arms or the flag of the Republic of Bulgaria or of a foreign country as well as religious signs or images is prohibited.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u560	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u561	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am surprised that the Commission has proposed this text. I don't know who the importer is, but at least here I expect the patriots to raise their voice.................................................................................................• We from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms from our very creation to this day have always used the colors of the flag of the Republic of Bulgaria in our election posters and agitating materials. That's never been a problem. I'm surprised that now you want to limit this opportunity to use the flag, understand the colors of the flag. Think again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u562	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u563	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kazak, the patriots have reacted and made an offer. I am talking about the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which has made a written proposal that this text be rejected. There are the patriots who protect the Bulgarian flag. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u564	Second line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u565	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! My speech is on the second paragraph of the market value, to be up to BGN 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u566	It is not in the importer's text, so the restrictions are dropped, i.e. in the Commission's text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u567	Excuse me. In that case, I won't make a statement. I didn't see him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u568	It's still consistent with the Commission. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u569	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Since we found out that the DPS are patriots, we are glad finally that they think patriotic, but until now the use of the symbols of the Bulgarian state was forbidden for the use of the emblems of the Bulgarian flag and the Bulgarian flag, for agitating materials during a campaign, which is not right. There can be no close party interests to use the country's coat of arms and the Bulgarian flag. This isn't right! There have been complaints about posters that we've made from the IMRO or the Patriotic Front, where it's slightly implied that there's a flag or something else, so take it and check what it's been like so far and then act like patriots. The most important thing is that the symbols of the Bulgarian state should not be used closely.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u570	First line, Mr. Chobanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u571	Thank you, Madam President. My line is very short. The campaign is not for the sake of close party interests, but for the sake of the well-being of Bulgaria. That's it. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u572	Second line: Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u573	Madam President, honourable Members! This proposal is by GERB and is made in connection with art. 5 of the Law on Political Parties, which says: The political parties cannot use in their symbols the crest or flag of the Republic of Bulgaria or of a foreign state, as well as religious signs and images.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u574	Third line, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u575	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Angelov, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms we have always been patriots and it is true patriots, not in the sense that Hristo Botev put into his poem. That is why we insist that the restriction to use the Bulgarian flag during the election campaign, i.e. in the election materials, should be dropped. There's never been such a restriction in the law. [[Heckling]] There never was! What the colleague has read is about the symbolism of the parties not to use national symbols and signs. The Bulgarian flag has always been used in the election materials and this has never created a problem. If you want to write explicitly that the Macedonian or French flag can not be used, but leave the Bulgarian flag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u576	A hole, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u577	I thank my colleague Alexandrova for reminding the honourable MPs from DPS where this thing came from so that the flag and the crest could not be used. I suppose that you may not have been involved in making certain videos on the National Television or Radio, where they generally do not allow the broadcast of videos, including the representatives of these media with the Bulgarian symbols of Bulgarian statehood. That's a fact, isn't it?! The fact that you want to be patriots is your problem. To Mr. Chobanov. Mr. Chobanov, I'm glad you're working for the good of the state, but during the term of office you had as Finance Minister you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u578	You will deviate from the debate we are having right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u579	... so worked that thousands of Bulgarian citizens were left without their deposits in KTB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u580	Any other MPs? Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u581	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I appeal to you with a recommendation to support a text rejected by the Commission, namely the text to art. 183, para. 6, which we recommend to create: "During the election campaign it is prohibited to distribute gifts, awards and others except for flags, printed and agitating materials with market value up to 2 BGN. We subsequently changed this proposal in the Commission, and instead of BGN 2, we offered no more than BGN 5. to be the value of these agitating materials. I'll get right on it. Because in the series of the last ten years, almost all elections have become a special form of buying the voter. In the form of agitating materials, all kinds of items that have a purpose, long-term, long-term use as parts of clothing, hats, glasses, any other equipment shall be distributed. The practice of the non-Bulgarian parties is to buy voters with material prizes with food: packages of rice, oil, packages of flour, live hens. A live chicken, one piece, and you vote for me. [[Radio and lines.]] Yes, I quote examples from the sad practice of the election period in Bulgaria. Those are the facts. If we do not introduce any restriction on this unpopular buying of voters, it would be good to make another change and introduce as an obligation in all advertising, propaganda materials and advertisements of the respective political power to be displayed below "Buying and selling votes" is a tradition. I appeal to you to support the text proposed by the Patriotic Front:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u582	A line to Mr. Simeonov? Mr. Popov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u583	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Simeonov, I kind of agree with your statement. However, once you have adopted a single central number, virtually the big players, figuratively speaking, the big parties will be privileged because they will have a very large media time. They'll be able to pay centrally to do their campaign. What you propose is to be up to BGN 5 or up to BGN 2 restricts smaller candidates to a figure of speech, I repeat, the smaller candidates who are for elections, regardless of the type of elections. I therefore propose that, although it is not supported as a text by the Commission, it should really be limited, but after the.Gitanic materials, it should be put at a point, because here it is evident that it is offered with the exception of flags, printed and other agitating materials. To determine whether the market value will be 2 or 5 leva, I think it is quite restrictive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u584	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u585	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, I wish you more optimism on the eve of your congress. You have not yet become a small party to worry that in some way the small party is being harmed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u586	On the subject, Mr. Simeonov!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u587	I demand support for this text, I appeal and I beg you, because this way we will isolate those people who are going to vote only for the material awards. Let's face it: there is one part of the Bulgarian population that understands nothing about a policy that lives outside the real world, very staring at its domestic problems. This particular part is quite impurely used by the DPS, mainly by the DPS. This part basically voted precisely for material benefits or for the loss of dismissal, fear, withdrawal of privileges and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u588	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs for the dismissal of § 83... the Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 131 MPs: 22, against 88, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u589	Madam President, honourable Members! Why did I vote against?! You've all been concentrating on the speech of one of the negotiators, and I'm not going to give him any reason for a personal explanation that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u590	So make it clear that it is not recognized in your words.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u591	This is not about love for Bulgarian national symbols. Look at the lyrics. The use of the coat of arms or the flag of the Republic of Bulgaria is prohibited in the agitative materials. Note the use of the crest or flag of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as of foreign countries, as well as religious signs and images. I would understand the DPS colleagues if they had said: because we love Bulgaria and the Bulgarian flag very much, let alone the ban on the use of foreign flags and religious symbols. I'd understand. [[Replying and shouting from DPS.]] However, you did not make it a proposal, and I therefore voted against the whole text. [[Replys and shout from DPS. A line from the National Representative Chetin Kazak.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u592	Colleagues, the text has been voted on. We're moving on. [[National Representative Chetin Kazak wants the floor.]] What personal explanation? [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me? [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, it was so uninteresting to explain the negative vote. The only mention was that he said "DPS" but that does not mean that all colleagues will take the floor for a personal explanation. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u593	Thank you. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal in the manner in which it is conducted to draw attention to the fact that the Commission's main text is to be voted on. In my speech, I think it has become clear, I have made an explicit proposal from the text of the Commission to remove the restriction on the Bulgarian flag. I think I have made it clear that we accept that there should be a restriction, for example, not to use the flag of Macedonia, France or any other country, but that the Bulgarian flag should be dropped in the text of the Commission as a restriction. You should put to the vote this proposal that I have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u594	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. When we get to him, I'll do it. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Mitev, Simeonov and Kirilov, which Mr. Simeonov defended in the Chamber. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 127 MPs: 28 against 40, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. Come on in for a negative vote on why you voted against. Your group voted two people. One is against, the other is abstention. I take it you're the one voting against you. The Secretariat confirms that Mr. Bojinov voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u595	Madam President, I voted against this text because it is not a single question whether it is two or five levs. And now in hundreds of restaurants you can drink your coffee by serving you sugar with the emblem of one of the parties in Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]] Why are you guys reacting? It's not two levs and it's not five levs, it's two pennies, but the order is for several million. Therefore, neither one or the other text decides and prohibits what is speculated. That is why I voted against it because the solution is not in these texts, because these are agitating materials, but they are for millions of levs, and their unit value... [[Noise and lines.]] Why are you reacting? I don't name the party, my colleagues. I'm not saying who the party is. I say about the sugars that have flooded Bulgaria. This text is therefore not working, and I voted against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u596	Colleagues, we're going to the Commission. Before voting on the Commission's proposal, Mr Kazak suggested from the text that the flag of the Republic of Bulgaria be heard. In such a case, the sentence would sound like this, Mr. Kazak: In the agitative materials it is prohibited to use the coat of arms or the flag... [[Reply by National Representative Chetin Kazak.]] Come and tell me exactly what you want, Mr. Kazak, but so say it so that the sentence makes sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u597	Thank you, Madam President. The text reads: In the propaganda materials it is prohibited to use the coat of arms of the Republic of Bulgaria or the coat of arms or the flag of a foreign country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u598	The text goes on and on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u599	Yeah, yeah, yeah, like religious signs or images.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u600	We vote on Mr. Kazak's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u601	What do we do now?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u602	Mr. Ermenkov, we have been voting for a long time, all day today at 11:00 p.m., you ask me, "What are we doing now?" We vote, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Happy tidings.]] Mr. Bozhinov is following the text, ask for it. Abort the vote! They voted 120 MPs: 35, against 57, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. [[National Representative Georgi Bojinov wants the floor to be re-voted.]] Since the proposal is for colleagues from the DPS, it is correct to re-vote, once a sign has been given, to give to colleagues from the DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u603	Then in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u604	Okay. Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u605	Madam President, honourable Members! Stop talking about two leva, five leva, shenanigans! Here we are talking about the flag of the Republic of Bulgaria. After all, realize what you're doing! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u606	Mrs. Ahmedova, other than your call, do you have a request?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u607	Revoting procedure. Please come to your senses. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u608	Mr. Ermenkov, I understand you, and I'm about to do it. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Bojinov. Now they're gonna tell me where I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u609	Madam President, you have inadvertently failed this House, however, involuntarily. When you proposed to vote against the crest and flag, you should have said: you are voting against dropping the text. It's the right thing to do. Because it is now understood that, along with the withdrawal of the coat of arms and the flag of the Republic of Bulgaria, it is dropping out of the country. It's one thing to drop both things, the other is to eliminate the ban on the use of the coat of arms and the flag. These are two very different things that, if defined correctly, people would vote differently. Therefore, I ask you to define exactly what you propose to vote on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u610	Mr. Popov, please give the report to Mr. Bozhinov and Mr. Ermenkov or at least stay close to them to keep track of where we are. [[Radio.]] Define exactly, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u611	I'd love to!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u612	Under § 83 by importer, which has two points. 1 et c. 2, p. 1 changes to para. 4 of art. 183, et c. 2 want to create a new para. 6. There is a proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to be completely removed § 83. The Commission does not support it. I put it to the vote, this proposal was rejected. There is a second proposal of the MPs Mitev, Simeonov and Kirilov, which make a change to the text of the importer for a new para. 6 and instead of a market value of up to BGN 2, they offer to replace it with the number 5. I put it to the vote, the Commission rejected it. We come to the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 83. Before voting on the Commission's version of § 83, Mr. Kazak asked him to come out and accurately formulate his editorial proposal. He articulates it correctly, it's written in the transcript, and that's what I've put to the vote. [[Heckling]] Mr. Kazak, come back and repeat exactly because I'm being accused of... It's written in the transcript, Mr. Bojinov, you're abusing rights! [[DPS lines.]] But you're telling him something different that's not on the shorthand, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u613	Yeah, yeah. The use of the coat of arms of the Republic of Bulgaria or the flag and coat of arms of a foreign country is prohibited.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u614	And the sentence goes on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u615	..as well as religious signs or images.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u616	Yeah, that's right. That's what I've put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u617	The coat of arms of the Republic of Bulgaria should also not be used for the agitative materials.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u618	That's what I put to the vote. The proposal was not supported. Mrs. Ahmedova asked for a re-vote of this text. Rethinking the editorial proposal of Mr... They voted 122 MPs: 36, against 69, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. For a negative vote, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u619	Madam President, I voted against Mr Kazak's proposal. I think he eventually also realized what it was about. It is not about the fact that at rallies and demonstrations there would be flags with the Bulgarian crest. It is a question of banning the crest and flag of Bulgaria in a poster or... It's an existing text. That's what this is about. The coat of arms and the flag of Bulgaria cannot be used anywhere, even more canvassing materials. Not at a rally, at demonstrations, at a procession someone to carry the Bulgarian flag.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u620	We understand you, Mr. Lazarov. Thank you. Colleagues, I propose that we vote on the Commission's proposal for amendment of § 83 by importer for changes in art. 183, ) (a.k.a. 4. Vote 115 MPs: 95 against 19, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u621	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition to all the arguments put forward here, I voted against this proposal because I cannot imagine how we will now make some European elections without the European flag on the poster? With growing euroscepticism in Europe, how are we going to promote the European idea even without the flag? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u622	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Come in for a second negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u623	My fellow Members, I voted against because I believe that parties should also raise a sense of statehood among our voters in election events. And I say to you that regardless of this ban, we from the DPS will use the Bulgarian flag to educate the feeling of statehood among our voters and will not stop. [[Single shouts, bravo by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u624	Third negative vote? I can't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u625	Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 84, which shall become § with the corresponding numbering: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 187 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. They're creating an al. 2, 3 and 4: The printed media and online news services may also reflect free of charge the election campaign of the parties, coalitions and committee candidates. (3) The prices under para. 1 may not exceed average market prices for commercial advertising in the last 6 months before the start of the election campaign. (4) In commercial advertising it is prohibited to make political suggestions for the benefit or harm of one party, coalition or initiative committee or candidate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u626	Speeches, honourable colleagues? Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u627	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As you can see, there is a hypothesis here with this paragraph that allows for free coverage of the election campaign, that is, not to reflect news, but to say from the day when it is likely to see the participation in one form or another of representatives of political parties, of the election campaign itself, something that has been normally paid and this has been part of the so-called paid materials. We had a lot of debate on this paragraph in the Legal Commission, and maybe we didn't get to some unifying option. So I would like to make an editorial proposal, which is what I want to make. 2, para. 2 Finally, after such coverage is made in print and other media free of charge of the election campaign, it should be reflected in an appropriate way, to be indicated in an appropriate way, i.e. to make it clear that it is about free coverage of the election campaign. The editorial proposal reads as follows: "In § 84 by importer t. 2, para. 2 sentence first is finally a comma and the text is added as an appropriate indication of this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u628	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. First line? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u629	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Slavov, I do not oppose your proposal, but I believe that it would further aggravate the text, as there has already been a text voted in previous paragraph. 180. In it we have written that the contracts and the contracts and grants are announced, that is, there will be clarity, publicity and transparency in terms of campaigning where the contracts with political parties, coalitions and initiative committees are reflected in the media. If you agree, please withdraw your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u630	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. A line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u631	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u632	Yes, I'll give you the floor, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u633	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Atanasova!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u634	There's another line! [[Reply of the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u636	I'm sorry. He asked for a line, Mrs. Ahmedova. He asked for a first line, and you asked for a second line. [[Noise and lines.]] There was a statement by Mrs. Atanasova. Your speech (to Mr. Peter Slavov). It was a line. Sorry, Mr. Slavov. Then there is the word Mrs. Ahmedova....a mistake of the management, a statement was written, and it is a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u637	Dear Mr. Chairman, to clarify, I am making a reply to Mr. Slavov because it was so written on the screen that he is speaking. My question is this, Mr. Slavov. In para. 3 is written that the prices under para. 1 cannot exceed the average market prices of commercial advertising in the last six months before the start of the election campaign, which I agree with. My question is this: if this is not respected, what happens next? Because you as legislators and importers didn't see it coming.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u638	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. Second line? I won't. I've just checked, in speech you've been in speaking procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u639	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The two lines. Mrs. Atanasova, first of all, I would return the gesture to you to think about what you said about whether you should withdraw it, because, as you well know, covering an election campaign could also be outside of a signed contract. There is no need to have a signed contract "be it for free coverage, or for anything else, to reflect an election event. So it seems right to me when a media decides to do such a thing, it simply says that it really represents this kind of reflective reflection, as by the way if you look in art. 179 of the Code, the paid publications are reflected. That's pretty much the same text that's written here. With regard to Mrs. Ahmedova's reply, I suggest that we think together, but in the event of a violation, you know that there is a corresponding chapter on administrative-criminal provisions and they are applied on general grounds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u640	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u641	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I know you're tired, colleagues. It is no coincidence that these nine hours, when we are already discussing the subject, I have not taken the floor, but there is an important text here that I do not want to go through without paying attention to it. If, while an advertisement is under way, which a media has decided to be free of charge, this is not written or said during its broadcast, how will we control and how can someone control, such as the Court of Auditors, whether the contract concluded for free advertising really reflects the performance that the media will do? Simply put, if this is not explicitly written, colleagues, during the video, which is free, no one can then determine whether the media has fulfilled the contract concluded for a certain number of free videos, or whether it has done what it wants. If we do not now oblige the media, when broadcasting free advertising, to issue below free advertising, according to a contract with their party, they will do whatever they want and there will be a complete anarchy and unfortunately there will be abuse, because certain media with unclear ownership have had and have the opportunity for a huge, so-called free advertising. There's nothing wrong with free advertising, guys. But if we oblige the media to issue, when advertising is free, the viewer will be able to account for whether a media has decided to give free advertising to all parties, as it should be, or selected according to a certain criterion, it will have to answer these questions. So, in order to have transparency in order to have accountability and responsibility when there is a broadcast of free advertising, it is extremely important to clarify it. I very much support the editorial of my colleague Slavov and I urge you, colleagues, to vote on this in order not to have to see bad practices and then to amend this text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u642	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. A line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. First, we vote on the proposal of the MP Petar Slavov in the version of § 84, which takes place in a corresponding numbering, para. 2, p. 2 sentence first at the end to set a comma and add an appropriate indication of this. Honourable Members, voting regime for the proposal of the MP Petar Slavov for editorial note. Vote 92 MPs: 28 against 4, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members, we are voting on the version of § 84 in the corresponding numbering of the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 77, against 10, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u643	Negative vote, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u644	Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u645	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. BSP left Bulgaria votes against. The other means that media owners will be able to because of some or other good services from one or other good government free of charge to reflect one or another ruling party. This is GERB in this case, or to reflect it without officially being paid to avoid large costs for media services and at the same time to bathe citizens in pro-government propaganda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u646	Moving on to §85.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u647	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 85, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u648	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u649	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With this new paragraph, amendments are effectively prohibited from attacking ministries, municipalities, agencies. It's an election campaign. You cannot fail to express your position on political behavior of an institution, as is the ministry, as is the municipality, as is the agency. This is really going to be accepted now. Are we going to limit the criticism? The same are sanctions when a private person is affected. Think about it when you vote. I consider this paragraph anti-democratic and must be dismissed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u650	Mr. Anastasov, if you refer to art. 88, para. 1 says that the publication of a reply takes place in the same place, with the same size, type and format, font and no comment. Alinea 2 says that the answer is published free of charge up to the volume of the material to which it corresponds. A new para is available. 3 which states that paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also apply where state or local authorities are concerned in the published material. It's about the right to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u651	That's right. That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u652	Any lines to Mr. Anastasov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u653	You actually made a line for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u654	Okay. Second line? A hole, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u655	Look, the right to a private person's response is one thing, and when a ministry or city hall of a municipality starts to respond one way or another, as a legal entity, it becomes very strange, that is to say, you have no right to criticize an exemplary antisocial or anti-social policy. [[GERB lines.]] That's what we're talking about. Therefore, you want, on the basis of a ministry or institution, on this basis, to make an answer equivalent to what you criticised them for. It's very clear in the text. I'm very clear, too, and I think everyone should understand. It is not democratic not to let the government be criticized.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u656	Mr. Mikov has the floor to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u657	Thank you, Madam President. The text proposed provides for the right to respond to the State or local authorities concerned. To understand the tired room, I will set an example. The National Assembly is affected by the statement of a candidate. Who will answer from the National Assembly, which is the authority of the legislature? You or the opposition or the majority?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u658	Not necessarily.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u659	Find out this text. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Tell them not to scream here!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u660	Please, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u661	This text is absurd and it really does have the sole purpose of limiting criticism of the government, of the Assembly, of the municipal council, of the mayor. A natural person is concerned and is therefore entitled to an answer because he is a natural person. The National Assembly shall not be entitled to an answer. The National Assembly is an institution and therefore its President is entitled to a statement when he asks, on national television, however, on behalf of the Assembly. These are absurd texts that limit freedom of speech within the campaign. The institutions are not in the competition between the candidates and the parties. They are state institutions. When criticising their activities, which is a natural part of the freedom and democracy of politics, they cannot be affected because it is understood that they are subject to criticism. It's part of democracy. Compared to the institutions with the will they do not have a single will of the natural person who is a candidate for a national representative who is a candidate for a municipal councillor, censorship is actually being done to protect those who sit in the institutions, in the bodies. They can change after the election, can't they? Will the organs then feel affected? Do you understand what absurd text this is about, which defeats freedom of speech in Bulgaria and the normal democratic campaign?! I don't know, there must be countries that are not in the European Union, but they wouldn't think of such a text. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Tell me, who will answer on behalf of the National Assembly? Who's gonna feel hurt? The opposition can say that criticism is justified and the majority can say that it is not justified, but it cannot be affected by the National Assembly! The Council of Ministers cannot be affected. If the father of the Council of Ministers is very affected in his current edition, he has sufficient access to the media to speak from morning to night what he wants. These are absurd texts you're taking! They have neither legal nor political logic and are contrary to any democracy! Thank you. Please review this text. Take a break. Find out, there's no way an organ, an institution gets hurt.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u662	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Dessislava Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u663	Thank you, Madam President. Perhaps the text proposed by importers is somewhat vague, as it concerns a problem already settled in the Law on Radio and Television. The negotiating Mr. Anastasov and Mr. Mikov, in addition to paying attention to the public representation of what rights and interests not only of candidates in the election campaign would be affected and what right of response can be given subsequently, should also be paid attention to already existing texts in Bulgarian legislation, which is art. 18 of the Law on Radio and Television. It is there that honourable Members, persons, public and municipal authorities affected by media services are entitled to an answer. If the regime will be uniform, it can really use this text from the Radio and Television Act. There the Council for Electronic Media monitors the application of the legislation in the part of the right to respond or affect a body of state authority, local authority or local persons. In this case we are talking about the mayor or municipal council. Dear Mr. Mikov, perhaps much more correct would be to propose a new version, if you agree, where it is clear and precise to which types of government and local authorities the text is concerned. However, it is quite correct with regard to electronic media, because there is already a precise and clear wording for print media.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u664	First line, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u665	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Atanasova, it seems that this text will need to be changed there. We will take steps to submit a proposal. And again, I am slowly explaining: no organ can be affected. A person may be affected. The Prime Minister may be affected. Mrs. Tsacheva can be affected. The president may be affected. There is no way for the National Assembly to be affected because it is a collegiate body consisting of 240 people. One will be affected, one will be happy. [[Radio.]] That's right. The will is formed only by voting, and there is also relevant who has any feeling for any criticism or application of any candidate. And who is affected as a natural person is entitled to an answer, as in the National Assembly the affected MP is entitled to a personal explanation, not its entire group. Because some of the group may be happy, others may be angry. [[Radio.]] Once again, understand, this text is legally insane and will limit freedom of speech. On a general basis, the Prime Minister, if he feels...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u666	Did you put a map, Mr. Mikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u667	I'm sorry. I'm done. I'm not gonna use the time. [[Radio.]] On the general basis of the Prime Minister, who is President of the College Council of Ministers, I pay attention to you, he is not a sole authority of power, unlike the mayor, unlike the President, can seek a right to respond and there is no need for this record concerning the authority and, notice, state or local authorities. You can't understand, it's ridiculous, if that's what the Radio and Television Act says, we're gonna make an amendment to cancel. That's what you're learning, maybe a freshman year. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u668	Second line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u669	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, the analogy, if you look at me and listen to me, was inappropriate. The other law regulates the rights and obligations of the media. And it says that when one side is affected, the affected side, whoever it is, is entitled to an answer. But here we're looking at an election law. There are subjects competing here. And to these entities, we guarantee their rights. Here we do not regulate the public relations of the authorities and institutions that affect them at all. And in this sense, this text is inappropriate. So your analogy also has no place as justification for the correctness of this text. That's my objection.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u670	Third line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u671	Dear Mrs. Atanasova, in your speech you were right, and perhaps the text should be corrected, it is about the sole authorities. But this new para. 3 refers to para. 1 and para. 2 When publishing materials, affecting the good name, the rights of a candidate or a person representing the party, the answer should be published. Here a third subparagraph is added as an obligation of these printed media to publish for free or in the same order where the good name is concerned...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u672	That's settled in another law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u673	Mr. Bojinov, when you don't know the matter, learn to read the laws and write them down, as Professor used to say. Cornezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u674	Colleagues, please, no irregular dialogues between you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u675	Here it is about the same order to be published and the answers when they are affected in the election campaign, obviously the sole authorities of the minister, mayor and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u676	This is a legal option, not an obligation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u677	This is a legal option, of course, Madam President, that is what I was going to say. And the rest is censorship. And when a party congress makes a decision and speaks of a single body...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u678	Please, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u679	... this means, a moment ago, I heard that no one has the right to publish the answer that a party has expressed, criticizing an authority. That's what I just heard.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u680	Mr. Lazarov, on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u681	That's on the subject, Madam President. That's what we heard was censorship.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u682	Would you like to use the backrest, Mrs. Atanasova? There's not gonna be a duvet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u683	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u684	Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u685	I didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u686	You went into lines with him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u687	I was making a line for Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u688	Madam President, I strongly object to the speech of the Member of the National Assembly and the claim to be a judge of what I know and what I do not know. There's a school in philosophy, Mr. Lazarov, it's called agnosticism. He's not listening at all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u689	You have the floor to say what you're affected with.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u690	These were people who had the valor to build their philosophical doctrine of knowledge that they recognized that they did not know if they knew. But it was their self-esteem and they developed knowledge. And you pretend that the other knows or doesn't know shows your own poverty and intellectual helplessness.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u691	No qualifications for each other, coworkers!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u692	Why wouldn't I qualify him? He deserves it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u693	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u694	Tell me, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u695	Madam President, I first address you in view of the substance of the debate. This debate does nothing to clarify the meaning of the proposal, has long been emotional and legally meaningless. I ask you to invite Members of the National Assembly to speak in substance. I'm doing a procedure to end the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u696	Mr. Ermenkov's counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u697	Madam President, honourable Members! There is nothing more natural than Mr. Kirilov's proposal in the light of what we are discussing now.. banning any criticism of the government or giving the government a new opportunity to use all its information power when one of the candidates decides that they should criticize them. Because it is the job of the candidates to criticize the government if they want to change it or change its policy. And everything else, whatever you call it, is censorship. The bad news is that Mr. Kirilov tried to introduce this censorship here in the National Assembly, taking away the opportunity to discuss matters in substance. I am making a reverse proposal that the debates should continue because it is about freedom of speech, it is about democracy and it is about GERB to stop being dictators and bring totalitarianism into the country. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u698	I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov to end the debate. Please vote. Vote 94 MPs: 76 against 15, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the test of the importer for § 85, which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. We are voting § 85, supported by the Commission. [[Radio, lines: "Pults are not working! "]] Please cancel the vote. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats, calm down and listen to what I announce we are voting. We are voting § 85 by importer, which is supported by the Commission and finds its place in the report. Vote 91 MPs: 63, against 18, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u699	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, I'm asking for a re-vote, because my console is blocking. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u700	That's a good reason. I declare a re-voting procedure for the text of the importer for § 85, which is supported by the Commission and will find a place in its report if it is supported by the House. Please re-vote. Vote 98 MPs: 68, against 20, abstention 10. Paragraph 85 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u701	Under § 86, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of Members of Parliament to drop paragraph 86. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 86, which shall be renumbered.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u702	Give her the next one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u703	Proposal by Mitev, Simeonov, Kirilov for the creation of § 86a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 77: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 198 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 4. The prices referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall be calculated on the basis of the following formula: 3 may not exceed average market prices for commercial advertising in the last 6 months before the start of the election campaign. 2. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5. 3. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): Five o'clock. 4. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u704	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev. I do not understand why the new § 77 then becomes § 76, but since numbering does not matter, it is all the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u705	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I wanted to comment on the text in art. 197 and the amendments. Firstly, the text itself is not very clear to me, but it fits with the proposal we voted on for free election campaigns. And this is generally quite disturbing because it also binds BNT and BNR to have such campaigns without knowing the regulation of this thing. In general, the text itself, first of all, is not clear, and it is worrying the whole thing with these free campaigns.. on what principle will they be given, how will they be distributed? The proposal is rejected when something is broadcast free, as we know with paid advertisements, to know that it is free to know if a certain political party is advertised and has received a free package, to know what is the basis for receiving such a free package. I personally would not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u706	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u707	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ananiev, you know what this is about. Only the free will benefit those who are in the government, and you will be the troupers of the coalition. Do you understand? [[Radio.]] You're starting to feel it. Because when the elections come, the individual parties of the coalitions have different interests. And those who have the executive power, they will consume the free, and you will go to the queue for what is paid. And that is why there is nothing written, but in general I am glad that you, as a democratic structure, are beginning to feel what is happening in the country and with your complicity. So contact your partners from the management. Hopefully they'll save this slice of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u708	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 81 MPs: 19 against 35, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 86, which is supported by the Commission and becomes the relevant paragraph in its report. We are voting § 86 by importer. Vote 88 MPs: 69 against 13, abstention 6. Paragraph 86 by importer has been accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with its respective numbering and content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 75, against 2, abstention 2. A new paragraph has been created with its respective content and numbering on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u709	Proposal by the MPs Mitev, Simeonov and Kirilov for the creation of § 86a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with the relevant numbering: ????????????????? Section Va with Art. 12a shall be established in Chapter 12. 199a: "Department Va" Elaborating Campaign Implementation of the explanatory campaign Art. 199a. In order to conduct an explanatory campaign on citizens' rights and obligations, all national media service providers may provide the Central Election Commission with free air time within no less than 15 minutes per week during the period of preparation and production of elections. Paragraph 87. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 87 to fall." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 87 be rejected. Proposal by the MPs Mitev, Simeonov and Kirilov for the creation of a new § 87a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 205 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words "election day" shall be replaced by "until the start of the election campaign." 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The results of polls to public opinion or to sociological polls concerning elections carried out through a media service or otherwise from the beginning of the election campaign until the end of the election day is announced in any form. Paragraph 88. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 88 to fall." The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 88 to fall." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 88 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u710	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. First, Mr. Mitev. [[The Presidents shall change the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u711	Mrs. Chairman! My speech is regarding the paragraph by which it is amended art. 205. In view of the discussion and the agreement reached, I suggest that you do not support the text supported by the Commission. I call on you, on the other hand, to support the other texts supported by the Commission which have been reported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u712	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u713	Madam President, honourable Members! I wanted to comment on art. 199a, which in its final version received a wishing form on the clarification of the CEC. The idea was to have 15 minutes mandatory in national media to explain the vote. However, we are now writing a text with a wishful thinking that there is no need for it. If he stays in this shape, we'd better not support him. I would personally make an editorial proposal to be binding by changing in the following way: for citizens, all media service providers with national scope undertake to provide the Central Election Commission with free air time and so on. That's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u714	So instead of the text, you suggest that you provide the text. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u715	I see you're clapping. Now I have a question for you. I just turned to Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov and asked him what the reasons were to propose this repressive measure to reduce the campaign from 30 days to three weeks, and what were the reasons for the withdrawal, without any explanation, except for these empty talk of consensus. I now appeal to you, fellow Members of the Patriotic Front, to explain: for what reasons have you proposed that sociological research not be announced, as it says in any way in the media, on what grounds have you suddenly changed your opinion today and taken the exact opposite position? However, do we need to know in this plenary whether legislation is being carried out or is it being carried out, as I said in the previous speech, in the cabinet of the President of Parliament? If you're a patriotic formation, please come out. Or Mr. Kirilov, who is also the importer of this proposal, or Mr. Simeonov. Get out, Mr. Kirilov, and explain: why did you lobby the polls so firmly in no way to announce them, and today you took the exact opposite opinion? Who influenced you? Who ordered you? Who ordered you? Is this where you decide things, in plenary, or in... [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Yes, you must answer, not only can you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u716	First line? Mr. Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u717	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we really owe Mr. Velizar Enchev an answer. Mr. Enchev, you're asking why they withdrew him. I asked them and they were good enough to withdraw it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u718	Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u719	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making the following line because I was specifically summoned, and this is the second time. In view of the length of the debate, however, I will try to be brief. You all know how sociology is used to manipulate voters' opinions. You all know, I'd call them wonderful, but they're terrible examples of using sociological research that way. For this reason, I supported my colleagues from the Patriotic Front with my signature, and I stress that with regard to the use of sociological research, we must be very careful, we must create a fair regime. For two of the cases because Mr. Enchev emphasized on these two withdrawals, in the debate with the coalition partners we decided to accept the position of our opponents. This does not mean that we give up our considerations and arguments. This, Mr. Enchev, does not mean that we have forgotten our suspicions or the Kostinbrod manipulation. No, we haven't forgotten it. We know what an opponent can do, including through sociological and media manipulation. In these areas there are three or four subjects who have declared themselves shamans of civil society. They say, "There are no more knowledgeable of us. We know how to guarantee the rights of citizenship, of the sociological agencies and of everyone. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Find out who's following these three shamans.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u720	Is there a third line, colleagues? Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u721	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Enchev, first of all, I have no obligation under the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, nor any moral or ethical, to give full and comprehensive motives for one speech or vote in the Chamber, but I will tell you this: I am very pleased that this public debate, concerning these proposals, has happened anyway. In support of what my colleague Kirilov before me started, I will finish him off. It is these negative processes regarding the implementation of sociological studies in Bulgaria that motivate us to make this proposal. Maybe it wasn't the right form, maybe it wasn't the right way, but there was a problem with sociological research during the election campaign. Its sweeping under the carpet will not solve it in any way, and I believe that with this proposal and with this debate that has taken place around it, it is practically the beginning of a discussion about changing the way sociological studies are carried out, respectively, and the time and time for which this should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u722	A hole, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u723	Madam President, honourable Members! There was no debate in plenary. I take immediately from the words of Mr. Daniel Kirilov. He said, I quote, "The debate we made with the coalition partners." Mr. Kirilov, the debate was supposed to be here in plenary with all Bulgarian MPs not only in this case, but in other cases. The debate was supposed to be here on Constitution, in plenary, not a debate in the room of the President of Parliament, where Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, as he said today. Mikhail Konstantinov was going to fuck your cans. With an apology, I quote Prof. Mikhail Konstantinov. In this sense, you show parliamentaryism in a sense, as you admit that in the case of the 30 days, which are three weeks old, in the case of sociological research, you decide things in the office of the President of Parliament and not in the plenary. And so far, if there wasn't a debate, and now there is one, it's thanks to my line I'm making. You must, in all such proposals, which you radically withdraw, explain the reasons for the submission and the reasons for the withdrawal. Otherwise, I can say that there is a backstage in parliament, and that behind our backs. And we are MPs who represent the interests of the elected people here in plenary. You have no right, as you have decided by the way and another proposal which will now withdraw from the Patriotic Front for the polling stations abroad, to explain why you were so passionately lobbying for one abroad, and now you are doing the opposite. In this sense, I think I am calling again: the plenary is the place where the debates must be held with both the coalition partners and the opposition, and with the independent and with all those who think differently from you. Otherwise, I would say that this Parliament is an imitation of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u724	Procedure, Mr. Delchev? Excuse me? Has anyone asked for a procedure? I didn't hear. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u725	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we from the Reformation Block offer in art. 206, para. 1, which was read together with all other proposals, to introduce an obligation for the members of the sectional committees: cases where there is a machine voting of the sectional committees, they should direct to the machines because we believe that machine voting is a way to deal with many of the vices of the electoral process. I don't need to enumerate you, but I'm still going to give examples such as the Indian threads, such as forging protocols, such as writing protocols and many others.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u726	How does your proposal sound, Mr. Delchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u727	It's done. I'm protecting him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u728	Oh, yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u729	It is done and I urge you to support it because it turns out that many members of the sectional committees forget about the engine vote or rebel against the engine vote. Their conservatism, especially when they are older, suggests that the engine vote will make it difficult for the voters and therefore do not direct them to them. We also know that there is a large part of the members of the sectional committees who do not wish to have a machine vote for one reason or another, precisely because at the end of the election day they catch and doctor the protocols. Colleagues, we urge you here to create this obligation for these people as predictable and some small fine to stimulate them to translate Bulgaria, because these are the main performers of the electoral process, from the era of paper voting, which is manipulated in this obvious way, in the age of machine voting. And in terms of sociology, let us not underestimate the Bulgarian voter! There are sociological agencies that give a lot of wrong results. I can even think of people who never hit the election results. Let us still give the Bulgarian voter the opportunity to assess who hit the result, who did not hit it and who did it as paid content to advertise one party or another. I believe that the Bulgarian voter should have as many opportunities to inform about the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u730	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u731	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Delchev, you only talked about para. 1 of this paragraph and the Commission has proposed to reject the whole paragraph. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 is created para. 5 and 6 specifically referring to the e-vote, which we have all said we are in favour of, and in particular: the elector has the right to vote remotely, by electronic means, with the e-letter, in order set out in this Article and para. 6: The remote electronic vote is equivalent to the vote by the paper bulletin. Given that we are all in favour of e-voting, or at least that is what we have stated, I cannot understand why we are going to reject this paragraph, since we are in favour of e-voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u732	Second line? A hole, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u733	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. I really didn't pay attention to the fact that the different points are totally different problems and therefore, in the light of what you are saying, because it is very modern now that it is evening to say in the light of something, I propose a procedural proposal. 1 of § 88 to be voted separately from the other points concerning the electronic vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u734	Any other MPs? Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u735	Thank you, Madam President. My speech is on the ban on consulting public opinion, results and publication of results. We, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, cannot boast of love from the sociological agencies to us. They've always underestimated us and never got to know our results, but we stand firm behind their right to do research and publish them. Because the more you forbid, the less freedom and the more distortion of both public opinion and the electoral process itself. Moreover, I have bothered to talk to sociologists, and they really wonder how we might think that this ban can be implemented, that is, put into action, because there are dozens of ways to surround it. We're just creating unnecessary tension in society. I say so: if someone through sociology tries to manipulate public opinion, it remains at the expense of his conscience as a sociologist, and when it happens through the media, it remains at the expense of those who do. His Majesty the Election on election day punishes such a type of speculation and abuse. We're about being allowed to do research and publish them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u736	Any lines to Mr. Tsonev? I won't. Any other MPs? There aren't any. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal, but before that there are editorial proposals made by Mr. Ananiev for Section Va "Describing Campaign" and the introduction of a new art. 199a. I put to the vote Mr. Ananiev's proposal in the text instead of the operative one, could be the imperative one. We vote. They voted 105 MPs: 61, Against 9, abstention 35. The proposal is not accepted because the quorum is 64. Revoting, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u737	My fellow Members, I propose a re-voting procedure. Coworker Markov failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u738	It's a re-vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u739	Three texts to vote anbloc and read...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u740	This practice will stop because, in different texts, a general debate on completely mutually exclusive texts?! [[Heckling]] They voted 116 MPs: 42, against 10, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create Section Va with art. 199a, the name "Describing Campaign" and the editing of art. 199a on the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: 102, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. There is a proposal by Mr. Karadayi and a group of MPs to drop out, supported by the Commission. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 87 by importer. We vote. Vote 118 MPs: 109, against 7, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph for amendment in art. 205 on which Mr. Mitev called on the plenary to disregard the Commission's proposal. It's about sociological research on election day and before that. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission asking the importers not to support it. [[Heckling]] Excuse me? And supported by the other parliamentary groups in the hall. They voted 111 MPs: 5 against 68, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Under § 88, there is a proposal by Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs to fall § 88. There is a proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs to fall. The Commission supports the identical proposal. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 88 and proposes to reject it. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 88. They voted 122 MPs: 112 against 6, abstention 4. The proposal has been accepted by the importer, § 88, which is why there is no way Mr. Delchev's procedural proposal for a separate vote on this. 1 and any vote by importer at all shall already be taken. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u741	Under § 89, a proposal from Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: In § 89, point (b) is replaced by the following: 1 after the words "al." A comma shall be placed and a sentence shall be added first after the number of "100" shall be placed and a comma shall be added and a comma shall be added and then a comma shall be placed and the words shall be created after it shall be replaced by a "create." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 89, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 to be The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 89, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 2 is created a new sentence second: "In elections for municipal councilors and for mayors, the number of ballots in cob is determined by the Central Election Commission."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u742	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements, coworkers? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs... the Commission does not support the proposal. Voting regime, honourable Members. [[Heckling]] We are voting on Mikhail Mikov's proposal, not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 13 against 71, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the importer for § 89 in the version of the Commission report, which becomes unknown what number. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. [[Heckling]] We are voting in favour of a proposal supported by the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for §90.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u743	Paragraph 90. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 90, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u744	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 90, which becomes an unknown number. Colleagues, we are voting on a proposal supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u745	Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: A new § 7a is being created with the text: 7a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 213 the following amendments shall be made: "1." A new para is being created. 2 with the text: An electronic means for carrying out the engine vote shall be placed in the sections of the settlements with more than 20 000 people with voting rights. 2. The existing in the project para. 2 and 3 become para. 3 and 4. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u746	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Georgi Kadiev, not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 15 against 64, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u747	Paragraph 91. Proposal of the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Emil Dimitrov: "1." In § 91, a new para is created. 2 of art. 214a, with the following text: "Electronically remote voting is allowed only from the territory of countries with functioning democracy in which the level of civil freedom is highly appreciated. A list of countries meeting the above conditions, which is based on authoritative international indices of freedom and democracy in individual countries, shall be drawn up by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the beginning of each calendar year. 2. Paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 shall be renumbered to 3, 4, 5 and 6. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop § 91. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs - § 91 - is dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 91 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u748	Speeches, honourable colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u749	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It seems important to say some things about electronic voting, as it will happen and it is important that it happens in the right way. First of all, its hasty introduction is just as harmful as not to introduce it at all, because once this idea is compromised, it will become a taboo topic for a very long period of time, and it is the exact opposite of what the Bulgarian citizens want. You know, for the referendum nearly two million Bulgarians asked for an electronic vote. It is also important to say that it would make sense to introduce an electronic vote when there is an essential mass of penetration of the electronic identifier when we all have an electronic identifier. This can happen at the earliest since mid-2017 on the Personal Documents Project that we are about to look at. There are some technological arguments why electronic voting cannot happen so quickly. It's an open source software that needs to be written properly. It must be certified, it must be audited, so that we have all the security guarantees, the secret of the vote and all the things that would bother us. So let's not get ahead of ourselves and flirt with the idea of introducing him so soon for the presidential election. We have quite good proposals, such as texts that are here, which I suspect will now be rejected by the House, but in the Transitional and Final Regulations, it is good to step on what we are proposing. The problems we have with the closure of certain sections and the inability of some citizens to participate qualitatively in the electoral process, to actually compensate for it through the electronic vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u750	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. Are there any lines? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u751	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To save time, we withdraw what we have made. It is not supported by the Commission either. Let's move on to the next vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u752	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. We are voting directly for the Commission's proposal § 91 to be rejected. Vote 116 MPs: 105, against 10, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u753	Paragraph 92. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. Mr President, it is written down: the Commission does not support the proposal. Technically, it's the mistake. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 92 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u754	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal § 92 to be rejected. Vote 109 MPs: 99, Against 9, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u755	Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 82: ............................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 217 after the words "al." 1... including the list of votes outside the country under Art. 1. 31, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u756	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I can't see. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 82. Vote 108 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u757	Under Paragraph 93, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the paragraph, which shall become the paragraph with the relevant number: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 218 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the word "vote" is added, and in a sentence the second after the word "Kabins" is added, and the partitions are added. 2. In para. 3 the words "supposed' shall be replaced by "supposed'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u758	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 93, which becomes a paragraph with a corresponding number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u759	They voted 114 MPs: 103, against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u760	A proposal by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs is created a new art. 218a with the following content: Art. 218a. (1) Two online surveillance cameras shall be placed at the premises of each selection committee and the first of them shall cover the entrance of the premises and the second shall cover the working place of the members of the Selection Election Commission. (2) The installation of the cameras shall be in a way that does not violate the secret of the vote and their scope shall not cover voting booths. (3) The Central Election Commission shall provide and provide technical online surveillance throughout the election day, including listing of ballots and shaping of relevant protocols. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u761	Statements? Here you are, Metin Bey.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u762	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, both the Commission and today in plenary, we are defending our proposal, which is linked to the proper conduct of the election day. We propose that two cameras should be installed in a separate and electoral committee. One to cover the entrance of the sectary electoral commission and the other to cover with a perimeter the working place of the sectary electoral commission, in such a way that the secret of the vote is not violated. We believe that by covering this perimeter, we prevent any possible manipulations and irregularities on election day in such a way as to distort the vote of the voter and also to have manipulations in the drafting of the protocols. We've done some research. We've also presented it to the Commission. We believe that it will not make the election day very difficult financially. The setting of such surveillance cameras will be at the expense of the budget no more than 4-5 million. lv. Therefore, in view of our desire to crystalize the actions of all subjects on election day in the selection committees, I call on you to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u763	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u764	Madam President, honourable Members! In general, it's not a bad idea at all, but for me it creates more questions than answers. Does that mean that in every classroom where elections take place, we have to install two cameras for the election? Then who's gonna keep the footage from these cameras? Where's he gonna be? Who's gonna check it out? In my opinion, too many questions are challenging the proposal. Throwing it like this, it sounds good to watch it online. This is not bad, although it can in some way be used to reveal the vote of any voter. For me, the proposal is not specific.. who is responsible, where it is stored, are recordings made, can the recording be used in court, if it is in a classroom, are these cameras mobile and then remove them, or are they sitting there to use them for the children after the election day is over? Too many questions are being raised than answers being given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u765	Mr. Iliev wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u766	Thank you, Madam President. I'm surprised at your energy on such a long day at work. Dear colleagues, since we will be setting up teams to monitor the purchase of votes that will monitor the election day, let us also create something like a team to monitor the work of the sectional election committees, because this is no less important. We have repeatedly heard and witnessed in different sections what happens to the replacement of protocols, the overwriting of votes for certain parties or vice versa. I think if we want total transparency and if we have to be fair to society, what is above all our duty, it is good to have cameras in the polling stations. This will give transparency and guarantee to all of us that the election day will be fair and that there will be no manipulations. At this point, it will show how much each of the political parties really wants this transparency and honesty on election day. This is an extremely important issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u767	Let's put it in the hallways.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u768	Let us give transparency, because since we will have squads that will monitor the prosecution, the Ministry of Interior, let us put cameras in the polling stations, so there will be transparency and clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u769	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u770	Mr. Iliev, when we put the recording cameras in the rooms, let's put them both in the hallways and in front of the schools, because usually the deals happen in the halls before anyone enters. Let's put the cameras in front of the school itself, where they gather and become the pep talk. That's where I'm more worried about than inside, where we've got advocates, a sequencing commission and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u771	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u772	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague, the idea is to install cameras only at the entrance of the polling section and in the perimeter where the Commission itself works. I think it's a perfectly normal process. Why are you afraid of this? Why are you afraid? So you can manipulate the protocols?! [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] Well, how? It doesn't make any other sense. So whoever's afraid of this thing and who doesn't support it, it's a clear sign that he's counting on manipulating the protocols and falsifying them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u773	Mr. Ermenkov will contribute to the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u774	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Reformation Block! It is you who are opposed to something that is called upon to cause transparency... what everyone is fighting for; something that is called upon to cause the liquidation of any doubts that during the counting of the votes there are manipulations, somehow amazes me. I'm even more surprised what you're saying is that it's almost too complicated to put cameras on. You are fighting for something even more complicated, which is called a vote of power and now some cameras will stop you. It's some kind of non-sense in your behavior and some kind of discrepancy. By the way, I completely agree with what the speaker said in the hallways to put cameras, because this is a wonderful thing. Even if the results of the elections are ultimately not satisfactory to society, at least these cameras will remain in schools and will benefit from these elections "will ensure the safety of our children in schools and corridors and classrooms. I see nothing wrong with making efforts to be able to have a transparent electoral process. The proposal explicitly states that the cameras will be placed so as not to reveal the secret of the vote. The only thing that will be seen is whether discipline is respected inside, how the requirements of the Law are met, which we are currently voting on, and whether we will finally have any... [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov. Noise in the hall.]] Madam President, please make a remark to Mr. Ivanov or kick him out if he doesn't want to sit here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u775	Colleagues! Mr. Ivanov, you are making a remark about the high tone Mr. Ermenkov spoke to, which increases the noise in the hall, so I hear nothing. Please, guys! Mr. Ermenkov, take it easy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u776	I'm very calm and I speak very calmly. It's just coworkers making noise, and if we're gonna yell at each other, the technique is on my side. So let's not yell at each other, guys. To continue my thought, I would probably have ended if you hadn't interrupted my speech. Once again, I call on you: colleagues, this is about one single thing and this is about ensuring absolute certainty in people that the election day is under the Law which we are voting on; that no violations are allowed; that voting rooms do not come in all sorts, including people with a large build that affect the Commission; that during the countdown... [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Why are you laughing? There was this, of course, that during the counting of ballots there were no additions, inscriptions, hiding under the table, pulling ready bags and so on. Finally, you can ask me who will be watching all these recordings simultaneously in all the sections they have a preventative character. They go online and on the principle of chance or, as the statistics say, the small choice in statistics is going to be looked at, viewed and people will know that at any given moment they can see them. Please support a proposal that is in line with the expectations of the society to have a transparent election process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u777	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u778	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I am taking a line to clarify some of the logic and motives of the debate in the Legal Committee. Let us hope that you too will explain some of the views on this debate. On a working group actually at expert level this proposal seemed to be able to receive support. At the debates in the Legal Commission, however, one of the people who spoke only first person about democracy said: "This is an election Big Brother. Such a case, such an experiment had been in Russia by Putin and it was extremely unsuccessful. In this situation, and in this statement in this debate, I wonder in general why my colleagues from the Reformation bloc are entering the debate now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u779	Hopefully we'll hear from the lines. Second line, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u780	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, you are obviously very tired. Maybe you should go to bed. Listen carefully to the things I have commented on. I said it's a good idea, but it creates more questions than answers. So it should perhaps be specified and, in particular, done. The very idea around this proposal creates many questions rather than giving any answers and solving any particular problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u781	Third line, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u782	Colleagues, as time progresses very quickly to say. If we have any surplus money that we're going to spend on cameras, provided we want a protected, fair election, let's put that money into something more reasonable... in the e-voting infrastructure, or in voting machines, or counting machines. We're not gonna solve any problems with surveillance cameras.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u783	A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u784	There were two lines to me and one to the Reformation Block. I'm gonna miss the first one because it wasn't for me. According to the second and third lines, which were made by colleagues from the Reformation Block, yes, I agree that the inside is not described in detail, but a law is not a technical indication of how cameras are installed, where they are inserted and how control is carried out on them. This can also be done with instructions from the Central Election Commission during the organisation of elections. As for the money being given, I think that when it comes to transparency in some elections, savings are the last thing that should lead us. Since you mentioned a machine vote, I would like to tell you that as soon as we get to the Transitional and Final Regulations, I will propose instead of a remote electronic vote to put in a machine vote, so that we can really be sure in the State that the votes are not replaced, that I do not add the answer to one of the lines in which the machine vote was mentioned. We're not against the engine vote. I do not see why we should oppose the desire for a transparent electoral process of technology, of the process when both are compatible. It is a matter of choice, a question of political will and a question of each of the political parties represented in this Parliament whether they want and how they guarantee transparency in an election. Nothing more!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u785	Mr. Valeri Simeonov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u786	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At first glance, this proposal sounds good and can be supported. Unfortunately, however, as proposed, it is another DPS coeurfiche. First of all, because this is going to cost a lot more than the six million you think. Your accounts are based on the price of the cameras, but there must also be quite powerful servers that are the underground part of the iceberg. You can't go without them. Secondly, online broadcasting and signal transmission is always at risk. Especially during the election, there may be a break in the signal. Then what's going on? So these servers need to be in the area of the premises where the cameras are placed. In other words, you offer something good as an idea, but do not offer it in order to be realized. In Turkish terms, it's a koerfishek. However, I feel very sorry for this good idea for you as a whole, and I would suggest an editorial amendment to pass the text as it is. A new article is created to the text. 218a, with the following content, para. 1 Before the premises of each sectary electoral commission are placed two cameras, before putting the text out of the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, everything else remains the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u787	In the premises of any sectary election commission outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, is that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u788	It's a joke.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u789	It's not a joke! Why is that a joke?! Online we'll watch what's going on in Turkey. Why is that a joke?! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u790	You have the floor for a line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u791	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Simeonov, we accepted in a front vote that outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria can be voted in sections only in diplomatic representations, which are the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u792	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u793	Mr. Simeonov, I don't see what scares the cameras? And those squads you're gonna be doing for crime surveillance, election day violations, irregularities, and so on, how exactly do you see them? What are these squads for? That the purpose of the cameras is exactly the same to monitor violations, for changes in protocols, for copying, for obtaining votes of one party at the expense of another. What's bothering you? What do you say you feel sorry for the DPS? Why do you feel sorry for the DPS? DPS, as always, has been as good as ever, and will be done. There's nothing to be sorry about. This will not scare us that much, but it is in the interests of the whole society and it will show here how much you really want transparency and a fair election day. If you do not support this proposal of ours, it means that you want to manipulate the protocols. That's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u794	Come on, bullshit now.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u795	Third line? Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u796	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Simeonov, you yourself said it was a good idea, but you yourself are able to corrupt any good idea because you are the greatest populist.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u797	Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u798	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The last one I wouldn't comment on, it just wasn't a particular sign of good upbringing, and you're a lady. I won't comment on it. With regard to Mr. Iliev's accusations. He could not understand that we from the Patriotic Front support your text and propose to improve it. The main reason is that if we enter it everywhere, it will cost an awful lot of money. I'm thinking like a businessman, Mr. Iliev. [[(Voices from DPS: ……]] It's gonna cost a lot of money! It's not going to be six, it's going to be over 10 million. We have the opportunity to ennoble this crappy idea, to put it as a first stage in sections abroad that are a limited number, and then with online surveillance we will be able to provide control with people to monitor the process, while at 12-13 thousand sections you can't provide online surveillance. So this is the good that we take from your idea, and we will support it with this addition. For those who do not understand, I repeat: outside the territory of Bulgaria. From Mr. Atanasov's statement, I come to the conclusion that the Reformation Block withdraws the proposed opening of new sections before noon up to 50 pieces in the working plan of the groups supporting management. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u799	We're not withdrawing anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u800	If it fails, of course, this text will not remain.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u801	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. [[National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor for procedure.]] Mr. Lazarov had made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u802	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Two consecutive elections last year and the 2014 elections and the previous elections. Dear colleagues, due to the many signals and complaints, the Central Election Commission makes explicit decisions in schools and in offices where there are sections and there are cameras to be explicitly excluded. Why? Because the complaints are from citizens that they doubt that their vote is being manipulated and that someone is watching whether or not they vote. And in some regions, perhaps the colleagues will confirm and say that the principal in the school where the server is sitting is sitting, the cameras are on and he is misleading, and certain citizens and voters are deluded that, if you see, the principal or with him came the supervisor, watch who comes in to vote and watch who votes. You can't deny that, can you, colleagues? This is a practice that is practiced in certain regions. Don't say where. Some of us know very well what this is about. That is the essence of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u803	Do you have any lines? I won't. There is a procedure stated by the MP Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u804	I'm withdrawing it. Let the debate continue. Here's a line for Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u805	Mr. Lazarov, I very clearly remember a case without the exact location, but it can easily be checked on the Internet, how because of such a forgotten camera was seen pulling out ready, completed newsletters from the drawers in the relevant cabinet. Isn't that right? [[Applause from DPS.]] Another argument in the direction of having to camera them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u806	Is there another line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u807	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's time to stop this debate, but I'm still going to make a line for Mr. Lazarov. Mr. Lazarov, I absolutely agree with everything you've said, only one thing I'm not. I am extremely worried about the rights and freedoms of citizens. Excuse me, but in countries with dictatorial rule and some southern constituencies outside Bulgaria, it has no electricity, Mr. Lazarov, let alone high-speed internet. How will we guarantee equality and guarantee the rights of Bulgarian voters and Bulgarian citizens? Tell me how this thing's gonna work. Not to mention that in some dictatorial regimes, apart from arresting journalists, they also prohibit broadcasting of all kinds of Internet activities. It's just a mission impossible and, as Mr. Valeri Simeonov said, it's just another coeurfichek. I mean, we'll try. And otherwise psychology to manipulate the low-educated voter and to remind him that he is constantly below the Big Brother, that is exactly what this text is intended for. That's it! Otherwise, it's not a bad idea, but not like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u808	Is there another line? Mr. Lazarov, would you like to use the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u809	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think I mentioned what the CEC's decisions were. Some of them are motivated by complaints from voters from all over the political spectrum, depending on who is in which region. So, colleagues, it is clear, transparent for me this proposal and how someone will ride people's fears that they will control who goes to vote, turn back and watch who votes. Unfortunately, that's because you're manipulating people in the same way that they won't give them wood, that they won't give them aid. Yeah, unfortunately, naive people do.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u810	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Mr. Atanasov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u811	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not support this proposal, because on election day, the most important moment is counting, right? We from the Reformation Block long ago have a very rational proposal that you do not want to hear, namely: the creation of the counting centres. If counting centers are created where under the spotlights, cameras and so on each section counts ballots and fills in the protocols, there will be no problem with transparency. So this camera thing is an exotic. And apart from that, I agree with one of the negotiators that it is for your electorate that this is a very convenient mechanism to manipulate them that they control how they vote. I'm taking this opportunity after the speech, Mr. Chairman, to make a procedure. I very much ask that we put an end to the debate on this text and move on to the vote. We've heard all the opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u812	Do you have any lines before that? I won't. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Atanas Atanasov to end the debate. They voted 99 MPs: 92, against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Debates closed. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 25, against 49, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u813	There is a proposal from Svilen Ivanov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 84: ss s s s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 219 is finally added to the voting partitions of machinery. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 94 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Here, Mr. Chairman, there's been a technical error. Svilen Ivanov's proposal by the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the MNS is supported by the Commission, but a technical error has been made, it is written that it does not support it. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 94, which shall become a paragraph with the relevant numbering: ............................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 220 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 all over the words..6:00.... 7:00............................................................................................................................................ 2. In para. 2 the words "sixteen o't' shall be replaced by two o'clock and the words "six o't' shall be replaced by "six o't';
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u814	Statements? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote the Commission proposal to create a new paragraph with the relevant numbering and the corresponding content on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 68 against 4, abstention 8. The Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with the relevant numbering and the corresponding content of the Commission report has been adopted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 11 against 61, abstention 19. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 94, which is supported by the Commission, edited by the same and will find the corresponding numbering and content in its report. So he's already found out, the question is whether you'll accept the contents. They voted 93 MPs: 82, against 8, abstention 3. Paragraph 94 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u815	Paragraph 95. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop § 95. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 95, which becomes the paragraph with the relevant numbering: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Article 2 (2) of Regulation When the voter is visually impaired, hearing impaired or otherwise impaired, which does not allow him to carry out the necessary voting actions himself, the chairman of the committee may authorise the vote to be carried out by means of an escort designated by the voter. In dispute with the decision of the chairman of the committee, the dispute shall be settled definitively by the selection panel. For a voter who moves with an escort but can carry out the necessary voting actions on his own, the escort shall only be allowed to the voting cab and then shall be released until the voter votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u816	You have the floor to speak. Are there any statements on the texts so reported? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, as well as Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs who are identical and not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 11 against 72, abstention 20. The proposals have not been accepted. We vote on the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 95, as presented to you by the parliamentary tribune. They voted 103 MPs: for 96, against 7, no abstentions. Paragraph 95 by importer following a version by the Commission, in accordance with its report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u817	Paragraph 96. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop § 96. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 96, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 238, para. 5th sentence first, at the end, is added either the preference (preference)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u818	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 8 against 66 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 96, edited by the Commission and applied in its report with the text, in accordance with the report and under numbering, which will be specified further, we vote § 96 by importer. They voted 106 MPs: 100, against 5, abstention 1. Paragraph 96 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u819	Paragraph 97. Proposal by Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs - § 97 - drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and does not support it in the rest, so I read t. 2: In § 97, in art. 242a: 2. In para. 1, b. The following is amended as follows: (a) a discount of 5 per cent of the tax payable on taxable income under the Income Tax Act of the natural persons for the year in which the choice was made, provided that they do not have public obligations to be enforced. In para. 1, b. The following is amended as follows: (b) Until the introduction of a remote electronic vote for Bulgarian citizens living abroad, there is a good reason for not exercising selective law. As I said, the Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and does not support it in the rest. Proposal by the MP Christian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 97, which becomes a paragraph with a corresponding number: ????????????????? Section XII shall be established in Chapter 14 with art. 242a and 242b: "Department XII" Consequences after the vote Stimulation Art. 242a. Any person exercising his or her selective right may be given incentives. The method, type and amount of incentives shall be determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers. Consequences of non-exercise of selective law Art. 242b. (1) Persons who have not exercised their selective right without due cause shall be deleted from the electoral list for the following elections and entered in the list of deleted persons under conditions and arrangements laid down by the Central Election Commission. (2) The voters may exercise their selective right in the following elections by submitting a written application to the relevant authority under art. 23, para. 1 at a fixed address. The application may also be submitted by electronic signature. The application for entry in the electoral lists shall be submitted no later than 30 days before the election day and after that period shall apply respectively art. 33, 39 and 40. (3) The renewal of the electoral lists shall be carried out on the basis of applications and documents submitted by citizens. (4) Paragraph 1 shall not apply if the voter proves that there are respectable reasons which prevented him from voting. Respectful reasons are an accidental absence from the country during the period of production of the respective type of elections, illness, school/service employment and other unforeseen circumstances. (5) For verification of the reasons under para. 4, the voter shall present to the authority referred to in Article 4. 23, para. 1 relevant documents. (6) Paragraph 1 shall not apply to Bulgarian citizens residing outside the country, persons with permanent disabilities, impaired vision or difficulties in movement, as well as persons over the age of 70 who have not exercised their selective law. Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to make proposals for two editorial changes to this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u820	We're listening, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u821	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 242b, para. 1 after the comma, the persons who have not exercised their selective right without respectable reasons, I propose to add to two consecutive choices of the same type and the text continues to be deleted from the electoral list. In para. 4 of the same art. 242b, where respectable reasons are: an accidental absence from the country for the period........................ from the country for the period..........................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u822	That's al. 4. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u823	Mr. Chairman, I reserve the right to speak in addition to the editorial note.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u824	Of course. Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. First to speak was the People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov. After him: Mr. Radan Kanev, Mr. Karadayi, Mr. Delchev and Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u825	Dear Mr. Chairman! My fellow Members, it's up to you to talk to me. [[Noise and lines.]] I mean, if you're quieter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u826	I'm asking for order and silence in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u827	I haven't started yet, but I'm just warning you, if you're gonna make a noise, I can scream, too. So let's listen well to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u828	Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor to speak. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please order in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u829	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I see that the work of the MPs has no limit! I see that creativity simply transcends any possible flights of thought with the proposals here, especially under art. 242 (a.k.a. I see there a huge development in stimulating the vote, starting with tax reliefs, passing through tombols and lotteries, eventually reaching cynical buying and selling votes from the government of the Republic of Bulgaria. I suppose it makes perfect sense that this is the way it is, because if we all get to cut taxes, it's going to be the same for those who voted wrong against the government, and we're going to cut taxes on them, too?! However, this is not good for fiscal and state policy. Tombola is also a random principle.. can be found in those who have voted correctly, but it can happen by chance to those who have not voted correctly. For this reason, you have very rightly decided here that the Council of Ministers, according to the results of the elections, will decide whether there will be incentives or there will be no incentives! Will we reward the voter for having correctly understood the government's policy and supported it, as a result of which the government will decide to stimulate it, or because it has not shown sufficient understanding of politics, the government will decide not to stimulate it. It is written: The method, the type and size of the incentives are determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers. In the sense that the Council of Ministers will be the body that will decide whether voters were loyal enough to him to vote. Colleagues, if we are going to introduce such a way, let us better put the sentence: The method, the type and the size of the incentives are determined by a decision of the Council of Ministers depending on the results of the vote. Then there will be no problems and the Council of Ministers will not wonder why it is so and we will solve all the problems that exist. Under art. 242, I would like to ask: why are we doing these exercises, even more about two consecutive choices of the same kind? We'll erase the man, he won't be on the list because he hasn't voted twice. On the third time, however, he has decided to vote, he will come and even miss the 30-day period when he has to submit his documents in order to be included in the lists, according to art. 33, 39 and 40, because it has the right to be a voter, will be written below and the entire deletion will be an unnecessary paperwork exercise without having any effect on the lists and the results of the vote. Very please: see what this is about! Enter the meaning of what you have offered! It seems to me that in modern Bulgaria we are giving the Council of Ministers the opportunity to stimulate the results and vote of the people is at least undemocratic, not to say that it is quite questionable. Because many NGOs, including outside observers, have expressed doubts that this is a way of buying votes. We were just angry at the parties that they were going to give away rice, chickens and other such to get someone to vote, and the state doesn't know exactly what incentives, but it will give incentives, too, whether it is rice or something else, the difference is not principled. I ask you very much: think about what you are proposing, think about whether it is necessary to introduce unnecessary paperwork with the deletion of people who will then quite calmly and without any obstacles when they come to an election will be written down. I think things, as you suggest, are a little unthinkable. Think about it and perhaps withdraw these suggestions! However, if you decide to have something to happen, let it be more meaningful, more democratic, and at least not to cause laughter in people outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u830	First line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u831	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Ermenkov! I missed out on my editorial proposals...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u832	Most important.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u833	...extremely to make an offer to dismiss the proposed provision for art. 242a. I'm making this offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u834	The incentives.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u835	In one sentence, however, I would like to explain. It was never the Council of Ministers' idea to make a decision after the election and according to the result! The point is that the decision is taken before the appropriate choice and before the campaign is opened. Accordingly, voters are duly informed about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u836	Second line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u837	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, from what you have said, I understand that you are in fact very much in favour of our proposal with colleague Dimitrov. It provides for an opportunity to reduce the taxes of working people who have exercised this obligation that they are involved in. As you have said, I understand that you do not like the approach of the Council of Ministers to hand out some money to someone for vague reasons. Rather, you want a clearly written mechanism and it is clear what it is based on. We have based it on the following: active people who create a product have a taxable income after they have found a way to spend their time, to go to vote and fulfill this obligation, not to be fined or sanctioned, but rather to be stimulated. I would be very happy to see BSP's support in voting on this proposal. I think it's reasonable. Moreover, in recent times in BSP we see that there are a lot of active working people, a lot of wealthy people, I would say, not to say millionaires. I hope that fits the party position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u838	Third line? A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u839	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Kirilov, thank you. Mr. Slavov, you don't understand what I mean. You can't buy people in a different way, including tax breaks. The vote is not an investment, for example, in an area with high unemployment, where you could make an incentive for tax cuts. The vote is not something that active people, if they are, will ignore, so the only point that will make them vote is some tax relief. Mr. Slavov, the last thing: you don't have one today, but tomorrow you will have a minister of finance. I am very interested in what fisk you will do and what numbers you will insert into it, and during the election there will be a floating number that will be this, because an unknown number of tax will be simplified to an unknown number of voting people. Let's be serious and talk at least from the point of view of the economy a little more professionally! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u840	Any other MPs for a statement? Mr. Radan Kanev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u841	Madam President, honourable Members! Despite the commism of the situation with this completely unnecessary late-night vote at the moment, I will try to be very serious about the issue of deletion from the electoral lists. First of all, it is good that in the draft of para. 6 is provided that this does not apply to people residing abroad. However, the whole text shows a profound misunderstanding of the principle of free movement of people in the European Union. It also contains a preliminary abdication from the idea of membership in the Schengen area because, both in order to waive the voting obligation and in order to obtain a person who has not voted, the apology note is supposed to be able in some undisputed way to establish his residence abroad, which within the European Union, especially within the Schengen area, is absolutely impossible. The period with mandatory stamps in passports has passed. He's in our past, he's not in our future. So whether the person who has been abroad can establish this fact is unclear. For this reason, the provision is contrary to the principle of free movement of persons. It is also contrary to the principle of free movement and labour and to the principle of free movement in search of educational services within the European Union. It is good, however, that you have offered this insanely important dropout. I welcome this editorial proposal. Secondly, as important as the obligation to vote is, of course, it is not important and, as we have seen from today's transcript, we all know that it is not constitutional, but I say again, however important, in order to undermine the Constitution, obviously this demonstration is very important, it cannot be the penalty for its failure to comply with the withdrawal of constitutional rights. It's a funny text or maybe not as funny as a dangerous text. Because it shows a propensity in the name of small konjunctural interests, and more precisely in the particular case, in the name of a childish reluctance to admit what nonsense we have done with this Draft Law, to play with the constitutional rights of citizens. Today it will be, tomorrow it will be different, some time there will not be 48 signatures for the Constitutional Court and will take effect. Outside of all this, colleagues, it is more than clear that such a text will have a severe opposite effect. He will outrage many of the active Bulgarian citizens who have high standards of integrity in politics and do not like any Bulgarian party. These people will demonstrably not vote, they will demonstrably alienate themselves from the political process, and the Law will achieve an opposite goal to the advertised and bet, which makes me think that this Law has exactly such a hidden goal to alienate awake and active citizens with high political integrity criteria from politics, as they are not offered a worthy political product so that they are better gone. In addition, there will be extremely severe administrative chaos. That horror with the 2011 ban lists would seem to us to be splendid compared to what will happen in a number of years. And here, before I'm done, I'm passing on this last, very important moment. You know, colleagues, in Germany, the reasons for the integral part of the bill. The court is obliged to interpret them, to seek out a crab legis when it applies a law. In the case of being identical by type of consecutive choice, the motives are in a conversation, thank God, public and with a published transcript. What's the motive for two choices? The motive is to postpone it in time because we know it's insane because we know it's going to fail because we know it's going to cause people to react. Well, so we don't admit it's stupid and back off, at least get rid of him far enough in time. This is not serious, this is insulting to you importers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u842	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u843	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am going out on the stand to make an appeal: let us observe the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly. And I'll argue. These texts, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, are yet another text in this Election Code, which we believe are unconstitutional for the following reasons. Article 10 of the Bulgarian Constitution says that elections are produced on the basis of a common equal, equal, equal and directly selective law. Article 42, para. 1 of our Constitution gives all Bulgarian citizens the right to choose. Article 42, para. 2 of the Bulgarian Constitution says that only organization and order are determined by law and not rights. More than that, Art. 57 of the Bulgarian Constitution says that the rights of citizens are inalienable. And more.... art.................................................................................. 5, para. 1 of the Bulgarian Constitution says that the laws cannot contradict the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. And in this regard, honourable Members, I call on you once again not to violate the Bulgarian Constitution, limiting the Bulgarian citizens from their constitutional rights to be able to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u844	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u845	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I believe that passive deregistered, however good the idea behind it is, namely the clearing of the electoral lists, will unfortunately not achieve those goals that would achieve the active registration, for a very simple reason the passive deregistered begins only after, on behalf of those who are present fictitiously in the electoral lists, has already been voted on. So, in practice, with passive deregistered, we will achieve just an administrative clearance of lists, such as in these settlements, in those sections where ballots are already being filled in and signed on behalf of people who have been absent, or have been completely disinterested by the electoral process, this thing will continue to happen. In this regard, I believe that this proposal, which aims to find a common balanced approach with regard to the proposal for active registration in relation to the opposition to having a real clean-up of the electoral lists, is written in a hurry and, in my opinion, there is more to be edited, that is to say, I am going out on the stand with an editorial proposal. Unfortunately, if we leave these deadlines that are currently and do not inform citizens who are deregistered that they are deregistered and the state accordingly does not inform them how to register again, I am afraid that when the time comes for deregistered, a large part of the people will find themselves extremely surprised when they go to the election day in their section and notice that they are not present on the electoral list. Therefore, I believe that in this provision there should be proposals for an information campaign which the CEC should organise in respect of which cases people are deregistered and what they should do to register again. That is why I propose, by the version of the Commission, in para. 3 after the words the applications and documents submitted by the citizens to be inserted the text after an explanatory campaign of the Central Election Commission for the write-off and the re-entry of the electoral lists, or rather for the write-off and inclusion of the electoral lists. I mean, al. 3 will read as follows: The update of the electoral lists is carried out on the basis of applications and documents submitted by the citizens and following an explanatory campaign by the Central Election Commission for dropping and inclusion in the electoral lists.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u846	Replices, coworkers? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, do you want to share your reasoning on this text? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u847	Thank you, Madam President. I understand that we're all tired, but there are things here that are very difficult to explain. This text with the penalty for non-voting is so incomprehensible that I will allow myself to do something that I have not done in this Chamber to ask the importers, if possible, to explain from the stand what is the meaning of compulsory voting and in its context what is the point of this punishment. Dear colleagues, a normal person cannot understand with one text about the mandatory vote, whose obvious aim is to increase voter turnout...................................................................................... If, for example, we want to reduce the corporate vote, it is done by increasing voter turnout. I would understand after the mandatory vote, I would not approve, but I would understand that there are incentives for those who have voted or real penalties for those who have not voted. But the punishment to be a subsequent reduction of turnout. Believe me, this is such a nonsense that it does not fit my head. How could anyone even create such a text? I've been a MP since 1997, and in this room I've seen a lot of weird, very unexplained, very logical and very illogical things. Such a lack of logic I have not seen in any vote in the last 20 years. I ask you to kindly explain to me: what is the logic of punishing those who do not vote with this kind of punishment, which will lead to the opposite of the goal of mandatory. Just explain it to me so all the other people understand it. [[Replications between MPs Dimitar Lazarov and Yordan Tsonev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u848	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Kirilov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u849	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will try to answer, although I will hardly be able to answer all the questions raised in full, but I think the principled things that I will specify will also respond to the subsequent details that the previous speakers had, I would say, a serious but unfounded misunderstanding with regard to them. I will start with the free movement of people within the European Union and the understanding or misunderstanding. I would like to point out the following. The proof of this movement is entirely liberal and established in favour of the voter. We have not provided for a limited range of evidence, let us say, data at the entry-exit points of the countries concerned. Yes, here some colleagues are probably right that only in a certain way of moving within the European Union there is, but there is a lot of data and evidence of how, for example, I have moved from here to Strasbourg, how long I have been in Strasbourg, and then I have returned. Why is there no circle of comprehensively listed or formally binding evidence? Well, to have freedom of proof, because the same evidence could be a student's license, a certified semester, a certificate from a university to every young Bulgarian voter. Any evidence is possible. Keep this in mind. For people who are abroad, it is rejuvenated, it is defined as saying: "There is an apology reason. It is enough for the person to say in his application:..I was abroad....................I was abroad........ without stating specifically and.......................................................................................... and................................................... and........................................................................ This is a liberating circumstance and it is only made with a simple application. If the person is exhausted from the list, all he has to do is write and sign an application indicating his or her personal data and his or her connection to the particular permanent address where he or she has lost that connection or where his or her permanent address has been. Colleagues, we all need to know and respect that by another law every Bulgarian citizen, whether currently living in Australia, in Canada or even further away, has a permanent address in the local registers. I will try to answer what the relationship is and what the purpose of these administrative actions is. I wouldn't like to make a doctrinal commitment and say: it is a sanction or an adverse consequence, or an additional administrative procedure. I'm not gonna define it. If one of the colleagues wants to write scientific articles on this issue, there is an opportunity to do so. Here I thank fellow patriots because by supporting their proposal, they tended to give up the extremes, the sanctions. For this reason in this institute we have a sort of mirror of active registration, only it is subsequent. It's not very true that it's deregistered. It's just a consequence of passive non-exercise law. I've been idle for a long time, so I'm off the list. But we do now. [[the President signals that time has run out]] a certified and accurate list on which it can be included at any time. Anytime! A careful lawyer should read carefully and distinguish the three hypotheses. At any time, a voter who is willing to take part in the elections may be involved.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u850	First line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u851	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kirilov! Such interpretations I am confused by all that I have heard. We all know democracy is a procedure. Explain to me what this procedure is. You say, "Well, you can get whatever proof you want." What authority will you deposit it with, shall I ask? No, which organ would you... In front of who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u852	The authority referred to in art. 23, in the municipality with a permanent address.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u853	I don't know that organ by art. 23 what it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u854	Administrative authority.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u855	No, look, this is not serious. An election trial and you send us to the city?! Next question comes the administrative authority does not respect my proof. What happens from there?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u856	You go and they put you under the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u857	Don't say such things!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u858	Please, no yelling!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u859	We're all aware that when you enter a procedure in front of an administrative authority and you give up, from now on, the only option is to go to trial. Are we putting these people on trial? There are no procedures scheduled. This is some kind of nonsense story. For some reason, we had to clear the election lists! So 25 years we can't clear them or the administration won't do its job to clear those lists, and now, like this? It's made up some kind of... This is ridiculous! And in the end, it comes down to one single thing - the deprivation of suffrage. Deprivation, because you're gonna make him go on a application, pray to get the right he's guaranteed under a Constitution. Ridiculous things are these! Because here you've gone to the wits of someone who thinks that with the mandatory vote, it will raise so much voter turnout that it will solve some other problem. It's a ridiculous story! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u860	Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u861	Dear Madam President, dear colleague Kirilov! I don't see where you are.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u862	Well, he's in the front row.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u863	Oh, the first one. Sorry, you had your back. You said passive de-registered wasn't de-registered, even though registered registrations. You've got me all confused. I think the solution to the problem was an active registration. I don't know why you didn't support yourself. There was a reason that passive registration struggled in some way with dead souls. In my opinion, the opposite is not fighting, especially those dead souls who vote in all elections. They bother me, not those who don't vote, but those who vote are more disturbing. In principle, mandatory voting and sanctions.. in fact, there is neither mandatory vote nor sanctions. There is a model of the wolf sat, and the lamb whole. Those who want a mandatory vote, I think there is one because it is written down, and those who want it not necessarily know that there is no vote, but it does not work. In fact, the mandatory vote itself is not mandatory. And another comment related to the apology reasons. In order to invoke these reasons, you must go to the place where instead of going and giving notes, and to invoke your reasons for registration again, you can directly register. What is the logic of going to give excuses to the place, although I never understood what this place was, but you're going to go there and give your note. You're going straight to register. That's my note.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u864	Because you don't read. Read!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u865	Third line. Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u866	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Kirilov, I do not agree with the fact that you have not developed the question properly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u867	It's bad.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u868	I don't dare be so extreme that it's bad because you said a lot of right things, but you didn't say them so they could be understood. In fact, is there an argument in this room that there are dead souls on the electoral lists? [[Noise and lines.]] I won't. Why am I saying this, colleague Kirilov? Because all the interpretations that it would reduce election activity, that it would be difficult for some subjects... I'm sorry, but how will the dead soul affect her if she doesn't exist? That is, it cannot even be sanctioned as some people try to develop matter. From there on, when the dead soul is cleared of these lists, what goes on for years as a serious dispute in society, we don't even know today what the number of dead souls has numbers 600 thousand, 800 thousand, 1 million, God knows how many dead souls are! However, with this experience we have the chance to finally clear these lists, which already, purely mathematically logically shows that in the next elections, the lists cleared of dead souls means increasing electoral activity for the simple reason that the basis of the calculation is completely different. It will not be estimated to be 7 million and 200,000 voters, but will be as much as you know, and they are somewhere around 5 million and 800,000 people. Here you are with a 40% increase in election activity. As they say, "Elementary, Watson!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u869	A hole, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u870	Madam President, I thank all three speakers who have replicated me, because in fact, in five minutes, I cannot make a complete explanation, and for this I have made clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u871	Nearly six minutes, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u872	Thank you. For the sixth special thanks, Madam President. I'll try it in a row. During all this time, dear Mr. Atanasov, the voter who is not on the list could submit this application. You are obviously deluded, you are a careful lawyer, but very carefully read, the separation of one of the three assumptions to the 30th day. Why until the 30th day before the election? Because this is the time limit for drawing up the electoral lists. Yes, then it is the most favorable for the administration, and the fastest becomes the entry of a new one on the electoral list. After the 30th day, the list is already ready, but, notice, this has not been checked, the references to art. 33, 39 and 40 "These are standard proceedings which are still governed by the electoral code of addition in the event of the prerequisites for this. And since colleague Lazarov very much insisted during your speech to add this argument, but it is clear, including on the election day itself, if he decides that he is already willing to participate, he could be included and allowed to vote. You see, and I stress again, liberal is also the evidence, liberal is the methods. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 is the way to challenge, i.e. the dispute procedure, if, say, the bad administration will not transfer it from the other list to the main electoral list, because it is not lost, it does not transfer it, it has the standard options that are present, to receive legal protection, including, and I stress again, in the third, most extreme as time hypothesis, and on the election day itself. I strongly object to all claims and understandings that this is a disbarment. The voter has that right, and that right is not taken away in any way. The only thing he should do with the list is to state his active correct data. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Well, all right!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u873	Three minutes and ten seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u874	[[sides microphones]] : Fine, but ten seconds now, to ring our bell, it's not serious, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u875	I apologize, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u876	I'm gonna do a procedure on the way we're doing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u877	Go ahead, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u878	The debate is extremely nervous. I'm not talking about it being wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u879	I accept Mr. Kirilov's remark that I have kept the sound signal for more than a few seconds, but this is also in connection with the unauthorized calls from the place. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please! The weather's advanced enough. [[Heckling]] What do you want, Mr. Lazarov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u880	Mrs. Chairman! Normally, I didn't intend to speak, but this is where the truths and suggestions came out. The first untruth and suggestion that, you see, citizens are deprived of the right to vote. Unfortunately, it is said by people who very well know that it is not and it is not written in the Code! They say that to make political suggestions and talk to people outside, they talk to our voters. No one is denying anyone to go on election day and vote! Dear colleagues, you know very well that if you go and check the list, for one reason or another you are not on the list, there is your turn to ask to be supplemented the list, but no one can deprive you of the right on the day of choice to go and be entered under a line. Honourable Members, you are very well aware of abroad when there is an application made a list of 40 or 50 people, and go to the section, no one can deprive you of the right to vote. Yeah, you're filling out one statement that you're not going to vote anywhere else.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u881	We understand your point, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u882	You all know that very well! And please very much, don't involve the ban lists when it comes to sedentary. If anyone wants us to remove the principle of sedentary, let them come here and say: "We want to remove the principle of sedentary! " [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u883	The line is Mr. Radan Kanev. [[Heckling]] Mr. Lazarov's.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u884	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Lazarov, it was no accident in my speech earlier that I gave an example, which you obviously did not hear or forget, and should not, because you ruled GERB one party and carried all the responsibility then. In 2011, hundreds, perhaps thousands of Bulgarian citizens, could not exercise their right to vote, were deprived of the opportunity to vote in local elections due to their inclusion in the so-called "prohibited lists" and a stunt of administrative errors related to short-term travel abroad, which ended long ago, and creepy administrative chaos. At the moment, there are all the prerequisites for chaos to be greater than it was then. They are laid down in this draft law, so even for this reason, the risk that many Bulgarian citizens lose their voting rights because of this nonsense is obvious. It is written, so do not mislead that there is no such risk, but quite separately it is that this deletion from the lists is declared as a sanction due to the lack of other sanctions for failure to comply with the obligation, so that the Bulgarian citizens, as you say out there, are being punished. Well, they're voting in the elections, the ones that are out there. They are reminded by the importers of the Law that it is a provision of Sanctuary and that they will be punished for non-compliance with civil debt by deprivation of voting rights. That's the impression in the whole society. We don't create it for the opponents of this text, you create it. And one more thing. Speaking of evidence, freedom of proof, how on election day before the sect committee, are we going to conduct proof? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u885	Second line, Mr. Metin. Third line, Mrs. Karayancheva, to have of all groups at least one line now.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u886	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Lazarov, we are against seclusion and therefore we have made our own proposals further in the Code. You're aware of them. I won't bother you with them now. We will develop them when their time comes, our considerations. We are also opposed to the introduction of all unconstitutional texts in this Law. We make our proposals and protect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u887	Ms. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u888	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Lazarov, I'm not going to stop for seclusion because...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u889	But don't stop because he doesn't belong here. Colleagues, don't make me interrupt you on simple procedural matters.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u890	If we open this subject, it doesn't belong here. About passive deregistered and active registration. I think that if we go to talk on the topic of Active Registration and then, think about it, colleagues, if there is no group of marginal structures that you are worried will be active and will vote, they will be the first to register actively, and in the end, actively voting people, how will you get them to go and they to register? So, we'd better be in the option of a passable de-entry, so that we can somehow excite some activity, and from then on, we're really all in the same position that lists have to be cleansed of dead souls, so that ultimately, there can be some justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u891	Thank you. A hole, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u892	Mrs. Chairman! I will listen to your advice as far as there was a line for 2011 from Mr. Kanev. Well, that was BSP's main thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u893	But you have introduced an unacceptable subject in your speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u894	I am surprised, Mr. Kanev, that you continue to support the BSP's thesis since 2011! It surprises me! [[(Noise and lines. Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]] It amazes me that you and BSP support the thesis of active registration of local elections or seclusion. Honourable Members, we continue to make suggestions that people will be deprived of the right to vote. I will repeat and conclude: unfortunately these suggestions make them people who very well know that there is no way to prohibit the fundamental constitutional right on election day from me going and being listed and voting as I am now, both in previous elections and in previous elections, was a practice, honourable Members. Don't make such suggestions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u895	Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u896	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, firstly, this is not about active registration, it is about deregistered.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u897	What do you want, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u898	But since the subject has been shifted, I propose that we put an end to this debate pointlessly and vote, because perhaps in a moment someone else will speak about something else that is not at all the subject of this debate at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u899	A reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u900	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is really necessary and enough people will speak on this subject and it will develop because it is not fully developed. [[Heckling]] Yeah, it's not developed! Yeah, it's not developed, Mr. Ivanov. And I would like to ask you and the rest of the room: why should we discuss actively registered, passively registered, when we can be registered normally? This is our constitutional right, and no one has the right to take it away from us, to record us under a line, above a line, to call us "extreme," "marginal groups" no matter what groups they are, they have the right to vote. That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u901	That was your opinion, contrary to the proposal. I put to the vote Stanislav Ivanov's proposal to end the debate, in the opposite sense Mr. Chobanov expressed his position. We're voting, guys! Vote 109 MPs: 94 against 14, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Under Paragraph 97, the Commission shall partly support the proposal under paragraph 1. One doesn't support him in the rest. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importers under Paragraph 97 in the part... Sorry, guys, I just switched the sheets. There is an unsupported proposal of the MP Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs for the dismissal of § 97, which is identical with the proposal of Mr. Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support these proposals. Such a proposal is also made by Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. We are voting on a proposal of MPs from three parliamentary groups.. ABB, DPS and BSP left Bulgaria, for dropping § 97. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 123 MPs: 41, against 73, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov is supported by this point. 1. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the two Members in the unsupported part of the proposal. 2. We are voting for an unsupported proposal from MPs. They voted 126 MPs: for 7, against 77, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. The Commission's proposal for the version of § 97 by importer. First, I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's motion to drop art. 242a, along with the name "Stimuli." I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's editorial proposal in plenary. They voted 121 MPs: 121, no opposition and no abstentions. [[Applause from DPS.]] The motion has been adopted unanimously. Mr. Kirilov's next editorial proposal is in art. 242b. "Consequences of non-exercise of selective law................................................................................................. After the text: The persons who have not exercised their selective right without due cause are added: in two consecutive choices of the same kind. We are voting on this editorial supplement proposed by Mr. Kirilov. They voted 122 MPs: 111, against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. The next text proposal is in para. 3 made by Mr. Delchev, who proposed after the text of para. 3 The update of the electoral lists is carried out on the basis of citizens' applications and documents. We vote Mr. Delchev's supplement. They voted 119 MPs: 28 against 30, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Delchev, you want a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u902	Dear colleagues, I want a re-vote because I heard Mr. Valeri Simeonov when he said that there is an opportunity in their proposal for a explanatory campaign, and there is none. The idea of this proposal is to make an explanatory campaign to understand the Bulgarian citizens that they are deregistered and that they should then register. After all, we don't want people showing up after deregistered, and it turns out they can't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u903	You drive them by bus!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u904	Mr. Mihov, please don't call from the gym! [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u905	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 116 MPs: 26, Against 49, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kirilov's next offer is in para. 4 which proposes, in a sentence, the second word "incident" to fall and to become: "Respective reasons are the absence of the country for the period...................................................... and so on.................................... We are voting on this proposal. They voted 133 MPs: 123, against 4, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I am now putting to the vote the version of the Commission which does not support the text of the importer for § 97 and proposes that Section XI, named after the vote, be created in Chapter 14. I would like to remind you that art. 242a "Stimuli" dropped out. In fact, it remains with a single member of the Council of Ministers 242b, it will become a member of the Council of Ministers and will then be called the Consequences of non-exercise of selective law. We are voting for the full version of art. 242b, in line with the editorial amendments we have just made. They voted 122 MPs: 94, against 24, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u906	Under § 98, there is a proposal from Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs to drop the paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 98 be rejected. Under § 99, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs to drop the paragraph. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from Yavor Haytov and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be made in § 99: ......... 99..................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 247 is created. 2: The decision of the Central Election Commission under para. 1, t. 2 and 3 may be appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court in accordance with Article 3. 58. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs - § 99 - is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 99, which shall take place with a corresponding number: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." determine the number of mandates in multi-mandated election areas by methodology according to Annex No 1; 2. A new t. is created. 2: "2." performs the functions of a regional electoral commission for a multi-mandated electoral district outside the country. 3. Previously on "T." 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 become t. 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. Mr President, I am proposing that the text approved by the Commission be dismissed. 2 is created a new item. 2: "2." performs the functions of regional electoral commission for a multi-mandated electoral region. In fact, I propose that the entire paragraph be taken by both an importer and edited by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u907	Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposals of MPs Mustafa Karadayi and Mikhail Mikov, who are identical and are not supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 60, against 32, abstention 21. The proposals have not been accepted. Revoting Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u908	Colleagues, I'm sorry to take the floor for revoting, but I think there's been a misunderstanding. Since the beginning of the vote on this Election Code, foreign electoral area has been dropped. At the moment, what we are proposing is all the texts relating to the formation of a foreign electoral area, the way in which the mandate of the people in a foreign electoral area will be chosen and everything else dropped, depending on the fact that we have already voted no such area. Please therefore, let us be consistent in the vote and what we have voted once, now formally continue to support it in this way. Thank you. I suggest a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u909	It's a re-vote. Vote 113 MPs: 98 against 9, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted. We're going back to §98. The Commission does not support the importer's text and proposes to reject it. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 106 MPs: for 103, against 3, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal has been adopted. Paragraph 99 is out. Moving on to §100.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u910	Paragraph 100 "A proposal from the National Representative Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna do it, I'm The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of Members of the National Assembly, § 100, is out of the question. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 100, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: ....................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 249, para. 1 words of the country's territory is divided by the country's territory is replaced by the country's. The number of the country's territory is formed, the number of the country's territory is replaced by the number of the country's two in Plovdiv District and the one region is replaced by the country's territory. Dear Mr President, I specify that in view of the previous votes and § 100 must be rejected, for which I am making an editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u911	Statements? I won't. We're closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal from MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, the proposal of Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs who are not supported by the Commission. Vote 105 MPs: 97 against 7, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Article 100 by importer is out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u912	Paragraph 101 s a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: I'm gonna need to get out of here right now. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 101, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: ....................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 250 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is canceled. 2. The creation of para. 3: The number of mandates in a multi-mandated electoral district outside the country is not higher than 4 according to the data for the Bulgarians voted out of the country than 7 for the Grand National Assembly respectively. Dear Mr President, in relation to the previous votes and with great regret, I must make a proposal to dismiss § 101. For colleagues, I specify: colleagues, we actually give up two things. [[Heckling]] You understood it, but my colleagues didn't understand it, and by looking at it, they're not listening right now, and then we're gonna have trouble explaining it again. Our proposal, which concerned a common proportion for determining all mandates and dropping the 4th term for a multi-mandated electoral area, is dismissed. He's also dropping out of distribution and the Mir border abroad. That's the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u913	Yes, unfortunately, for others, joy. [[Radio.]] Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposals of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, as well as MP Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs who are not supported by the Commission, but obviously, unfortunately, something else will have to be done. [[Radio.]] They voted 106 MPs: 98 against 1, abstention 7. With mixed feelings § 101 is out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u914	Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with a corresponding number: ....................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 255, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." an application form declaration from each candidate that it agrees to be registered by its proposed party, coalition or initiative committee and that it meets the conditions under art. 65, para. 1 of the Constitution and under art. 254, para. 1 or 4; 2. Points 4 and 5 are repealed. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 102, which shall become a paragraph with a new number: ....................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words "one petition' shall be replaced by "one list'. 2. In para. 4 the words..3, 4 and
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u915	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with its respective numbering and content in accordance with the Commission report, as well as the text of the importer for § 102, which has been edited by the Commission and finds its place in the Commission's report with the corresponding version made by the Commission. We are voting for the creation of the new paragraph and § 102 by importer following an amendment by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 2. A new paragraph with its content has been created and § 102 by importer after the version of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u916	Paragraph 103? a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: I'm gonna need to get out of here right now. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 103, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u917	Statements? People's representative Mithat Metin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u918	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have proposed that this paragraph be dismissed, but in the course of the debate and discussion, in the vote, we are making a reverse proposal to accept this proposal. We have reconsidered our position and we insist that it be adopted. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u919	- What's the line? Does that mean you're withdrawing your offer? Are there any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 103, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 88, against 2, abstention 5. Paragraph 103 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u920	§ 104 suggests that Mustafa Karadaye and a group of Members of Parliament will drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 104 to become a paragraph with a corresponding number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u921	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 19 against 71, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 104, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: 89 against 13, abstention 5. The paragraph has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u922	Under § 105, there is a proposal from the National Representative Mustafa Karadaye and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer under the heading. 1 and supports it by t. 2. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 105, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1 is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. a box for placing a sign "X" or "V" reflecting the will of the voter in which it is written "I do not support anyone." 2. In para. 3 the 3. Alinea 6 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u923	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. [[The National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor for an editorial proposal.]] Cancel the vote! You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u924	I'm very sorry, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am making an editorial proposal regarding this. 3, in which para. Six is canceled. Alinea 6 must stay. That's why I'm making an editorial proposal to drop the item. 3 and to stay on para. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u925	I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 33, against 59, abstentioned 14. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the text of the importer for § 105, which, having not been supported by point. 1 a is supported by t. 2 has been edited by the Commission, but before that we should vote on the proposal made by the National Representative Danail Kirilov to drop the item. 3 in this text. Vote 97 MPs: 92, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We shall vote on the text of the importer for § 105, not supported by this paragraph. 1, supported by t. 2 and with the drop-out t. 3 on the proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov. Vote 108 MPs: 82, against 10, abstention 16. Paragraph 105 by importer, following the relevant Commission interventions, has been adopted in accordance with its report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u926	Under § 106, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 106 be rejected. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 107, which becomes a paragraph with a corresponding number. Under § 108, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the importer's proposal and proposes that § 108 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u927	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to dismiss § 106 by importer, both the text of the importer for § 107, which is supported by the Commission, and the Commission's proposal to reject § 108 by importer. We are voting on three committee proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u928	Please call off the vote. They voted 115 MPs: 101, against 2, abstention 12. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u929	There is a proposal from Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: screated § 108a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 270 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: After the vote was declared closed and before the election box was opened, the chairman of the selection panel re-injured the Commission's stamp, three marks of the re-injured seal in the protocol with its primary injury. All members of the committee shall be signed under the re-injured prints. All other papers and materials on which the Commission's stamp is intended to be affixed shall be stamped with the double-polluted stamp. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u930	Statements? Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u931	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll be as quick as I can. It is clear to you all that after the expiry of the election day there will be a stamp with this stamp, which at the beginning is hurt and is hurt to be unique and can not replace documents during the election day. Considering that after election day, they also move in... [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Okay, fine, marked, never mind... Okay, fine, marked, I agree, I'm not arguing, I'm sorry, we're wasting time. What we are proposing with his secondary injury, as we have written here, is to avoid forgery and replacement of protocols with pre-prepared during the election day and stamp printing before the election day is over. That's why what we're doing is for more control. Nor does it require additional funds, nor does it require additional efforts. You know it's one second, let's say if we're very clumsy in the hands, a five-second act, but instead it will reduce the possibility of forging the protocols after the election day, sealing the urn with the corresponding stamp and so on. So I'm asking you to support him, you're not going to make a mistake, we're just going to give him a little less moss if I can use the word for my colleagues here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u932	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 100 MPs: 22, against 59, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u933	Under § 109, there is a proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev, made in accordance with Article 109. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 109, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 274 is If, when completing the data on the findings of the election in the minutes under para. 2 an error is made, the error is corrected by crossing the error, and the actual data is recorded above it. As close as possible to the correction in the field of the Protocol shall be written on the sidelines of a correction and shall be signed by all members of the selection election commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u934	Statements? I won't. We vote § 109 by importer with appropriate numbering for changes in art. 274, para. A new one is created in the version of the Commission's report. Vote 100 MPs: for 93, against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u935	Under § 110, Madam President, I would like to make an explanation of the technical error made. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 275 the following amendments are made... Missed the number 275, please note. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 110 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: The 110 Paragraph is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 110, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u936	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Karadayi and a group of MPs, identical to that of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, for the removal of § 110 for changes in art. 275. The Commission does not support these proposals. It's an identical one. They voted 104 MPs: 27, against 65, abstentioned 12. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 110, which will receive a corresponding new paragraph number in the final report. Vote 100 MPs: 81 against 11, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u937	Under § 111, there is a proposal from Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 111 is out." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 111 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u938	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission proposal in favour of Mr. Mikov and a group rejecting § 111 by importer. They voted 102 MPs: 96, none, abstention 6. This proposal is also accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u939	Paragraph 112. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop § 112. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 112 is amended as follows: .......... 112.................... 112................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 278, para. 5 a new comma shall be placed in the list and added to the list according to its registration decision. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 112, which becomes a paragraph with a corresponding number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 278 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 is created t. 9. Nine. There is a sign in the newsletter with a blue-colored pen in the box. I do not support anyone. 2. In para. 5 words except in the cases referred to in art. 261, para. The following entries are inserted in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u940	Statements? [[Reply of MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] Your proposal is inspired............................................................................................... Five goes down all the way. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u941	Madam President, honourable Members! In 13 hours I take the word twice, I mean it's important that you're tired, I'll be brief and accurate. It is very important that the proposal of BSP and Mikhail Mikov be rejected, as is rejected by the Commission. Since in the previous days when we discussed the Election Code, we saw strange things and had to correct them today at the Conference of Presidents, I pay particular attention to you. This proposal by the BSP in fact makes no sense at all the idea of a preference. Yes, it has been rejected, but to make sure that in plenary it will be rejected again, I pay particular attention to you that someone does not make a mistake. [[GERB lines.]] Because everything happens. I specifically address my colleagues from GERB and my colleague Kirilov, who said in this House the following thing: Mr. Dimitrov, I keep the reference more than you do. Since this is what he said and I know that he keeps his word, I am now paying special attention to you to reject BSP's proposal, which says the following thing: that the votes that voted for a party and coalition, but do not mention a specific candidate, are counted for the entire list. It's a complete depreciation of the idea of a preference. Because I know, colleagues from GERB, that you keep your word and I know that, as you rejected it to the Commission, you will now do the same thing.... unless there is someone to inform you, so I turn to you together to do this in the right and just way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u942	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. They voted 93 MPs: 8 against 67, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u943	I give up, Madam President, it was an editorial change to drop the item. 2, refers to hollow text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u944	I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission, which does not support the text of the importer for § 112, propose a new version and with a new numbering for changes in art. 278. Vote 104 MPs: 89 against 9, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Mr. Karadaye, a re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u945	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u946	Make a negative vote, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u947	Thank you, Madam President. I am convinced that someone will put these texts, which have just been voted on, into effect. I would like to get a real clarification and realization of the newly voted texts in art. 278, as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u948	Mr. Karadaye, you had a procedure to explain your negative vote, not to ask questions as to why these texts were supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u949	Madam President, I'm sorry. One of the proposals was not voted on in relation to § 112.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u950	What?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u951	It shall apply to art. 278, para. 5, namely, the first, which was done by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, to be abolished § 112. This proposal has not been voted on, but, fellow Members, I am simply asking you to understand what we voted on just now in relation to all the texts that have been adopted before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u952	Mr. Karadayi, your proposal is to drop § 112, which by importer reads:........................................................................................ 278 para. 5 is canceled. The report states that this proposal is supported by the Commission, which is why it cannot be put to the vote on its own. It is put to the vote together with the text of the Commission, where changes are made in para. 2 is created a new t. 10 under the relevant name and in para. The reference to Art. 5 shall be redacted. 261. But you didn't take the floor, you didn't say anything about it. The next paragraph is § 113.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u953	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 113 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u954	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 113. They voted 93 MPs: 82, against 8, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u955	A proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs is created § 113a.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u956	You're withdrawing him, Mr. Georgiev?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u957	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u958	You're not retiring? Read it, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u959	## 113a is being created: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Article 279 is amended as follows: Census of votes Art. 279. (1) After the opening of the electoral box, the ballots shall be subtracted, the total number of ballots found therein shall be established and shall be entered in the draft of the minutes with words and digits. (2) Upon establishment of the total number of ballots found in the electoral box, the number of actual and invalid votes shall be determined and the ballots shall be arranged in stacks as follows: 1. pile of ballots: under art. 278, para. 3, ballots which do not meet the requirements for the validity of the voice according to art. 278, para. 2 and ballots on which the vote of the vote of the vote of the vote of the voter is not reflected; 2. a pile of ballots that meet the requirements of art. 278, para. 2....... votes....................................... (3) Each stack shall be counted separately and the resulting number shall be entered in the draft of the minutes and shall then proceed to the counting of the number of actual and invalid votes cast separately for each of the lists. The newsletters are stacked up into piles of actual and invalid lists of votes. (4) Following the census of the actual and invalid votes on lists, a census of preferences/preferances submitted for candidates by the lists of parties and coalitions shall be considered and their number shall be included in the draft minutes. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new paragraph with a corresponding number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 279, para. 1 is created t. 6: It's six. Boundary of ballots according to the established model: (a) with a vote marked with a sign "X" or "V" and a blue color writing pen in the box "I do not support anyone; (b) which contain two seals of the relevant sectary electoral commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u960	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. 90 MPs voted: 3 against 66, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph for changes to art. 279, para. 1, namely the creation of a new item. 6 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 77 against 17, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u961	Proposal by the MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 113b: Art. 113b.Create Art. 279a. and 279b: "Enumeration of preferences (preferences) Art. 279a. (1) The ballots from the stacks of actual votes of each party and coalition shall be reviewed separately by lists and the number of preferences submitted for each candidate on the list and the number of ballots without any particular preference shall be counted. (2) The counting of preferences (preferences) shall be carried out in order determined by a decision of the CEC. The number of preferences (preferences) submitted for each candidate and the number of votes without preference (preferences) shall be entered on sheet 2 of the draft of the SEC protocol with the election results. Art. 279b. Where the validity or invalidity of a vote expressed in a particular ballot is challenged by a member of the committee, the committee shall rule on the dispute made and the case shall be described in a separate protocol of the contested vote, which shall be signed by all members of the selection panel. The minutes shall be annexed to the minutes of the selection panel, marking on the back of the ballot the number of the decision, the ground for invalidity and signed by the President and the Registrar. The balloted ballots of the voter shall be separated and sealed in a separate envelope. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u962	Statements? Mr. Georgiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u963	Madam President, honourable Members! I ask you to support these proposals because, as you can see, we are introducing a new order in questioning the reality of a vote. Let the Commission decide by a separate decision, so that there are no further disputes before other authorities. Therefore, I ask you to support this proposal. The norm is purely technological how to count the votes. It will not interfere with anyone, but on the contrary, we will have a clear and clean result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u964	- What's the line? Mr. Bayraktarov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u965	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, how can we support this proposal if there are only two of you from the entire parliamentary group? [[Laughter, single applause by GERB.]] Three of you, I apologize, but two of you, three of you, whatever! I see that even the hardest MP Velizar Enchev is gone too. And Radan Kanev is gone. At all, how can we support you, tell me! Just want a man, how?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u966	Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u967	Although I take your speech more as procedurally, I will answer you this. My colleagues have been discouraged by your persistence and inadequacy, I would say. That's why they're not here right now. Maybe they'll be here any minute. [[Laughter, excitement in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u968	The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Mr. Georgiev, can you, while you're waiting for them, withdraw the unsupported proposals? [[The People's Representative Tasco Ermenkov enters. Communicating, single applause by GERB.]] They voted 107 MPs: 18, against 70, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u969	Under § 114, a proposal from MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 114: 1. New t. is being created. 1 and 2: "1." In para. 2 words. 1, t. 1 "4" is replaced by "al." 2, p. 1.................................................................................. 2. In para. 3 words................................................................................. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission 2. Previously on "T." 1 and 2 become ct, respectively. 3 and 4. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80 of the Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 114, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 280, para. 3 is finally added
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u970	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 101 MPs: 12, against 69, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission which does not support the text of the importer and shall propose a new version of § 114 by importer for changes in art. 280, para. Three at the end. They voted 104 MPs: 93 against 2, abstention 9. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u971	Under § 115, there is a proposal from Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: In § 115, point is created. 3: "3." Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The data of the engine vote shall be added to the data of the paper ballots taken in the relevant section, as reflected in the draft minutes and the aggregated data received shall be entered in the minutes with the results of the vote for the respective type of choice. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 115, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 281, para. 1 the following additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 is finally added for all candidate lists. 2. A t is created. 3a: 3a. the number of actual votes under art. 279, para. 1, t. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u972	Statements? There's a statement. He'll do it, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u973	Madam President, honourable Members! Two notes on this proposal. The first is that the complaints made are not recorded in the minutes. For me, complaining is not a good idea. The other one, which is intended for the number of votes not to be included in the minutes. I also think it's gonna give us a reason for a lot of forgery. Why not write the number of votes in words? I think the number of votes should be included in the minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u974	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 102 MPs: 11 against 69, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission, which does not support the text of the importer and shall propose a new version of § 115 for changes to art. 281, para. 1. We vote, fellow Members. Voted 103 MPs: 92 against 6, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u975	Under § 116, there is a proposal from the National Representative Mustafa Karadaye and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Anastasov: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 282 is created a new para. 8 with the following text: The President of the Selection Election Commission or the person expressly authorised by him shall scan and upload the signed Protocol in the presence of all members of the Selection Election Commission who have signed it to a specific location on the site of the Central Election Commission. The scan and upload should be done by the chairman of the selection panel or by the person expressly authorised by him before the materials and election papers are brought to the municipal electoral commission by the persons responsible. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 116: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1, in the new content of para. 1 sentence 2 shall be amended as follows: the members of the committee shall also sign the minutes referred to in Article 1. 278b, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union 2. Paragraph 6, para. 4 is amended as follows: It's six. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6, creating a sentence second and third: the reason for not signing the minutes of a member of the selection panel shall be entered in the minutes. The statement of the reason shall be made by the non-signing member of the committee and, in his absence, by the President. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 116 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u976	Statements? Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u977	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is a new proposal that has never existed before. And if we don't want to repeat the result in Sofia, then I suggest you support it. It's a simple question. Maybe now you're all tired and I don't know what prompted it to vote until the middle of the night. It's not a budget to vote on and miss deadlines. The issue is to stop forging the protocols, especially in municipal and regional election committees. What's the offer? The protocol is scanned before the ballot boxes go, along with the election papers. It's scanned, sent to the CEC electronically scanned. Each sectional committee will have one scanner, one-time purchase, and it will always be used. It is scanned and then the regional and municipal electoral commission can no longer fake and replace the protocols or ballots. See how simple it is? If you want to stop the forgery, support it. This is the goal of scanning the protocols before they leave with these two or three people, and very often travels alone. The risk of him being bought is enormous. Not to mention there must be cases like this. So think about what we're offering and support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u978	- What's the line? I won't. The debate is closed, we're going to vote. I put to the vote Mr. Georgi Anastasov's proposal for changes in art. 282. The Commission does not support it. We vote. Vote 98 MPs: 12, Against 56, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. Vote 95 MPs: 16 against 57 abstentions 22. The offer is not accepted. I am voting on the Commission's proposal, and it proposes to reject § 116 by importer. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 97 MPs: 94 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u979	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 117 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u980	We vote. Vote 96 MPs: 92 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u981	Paragraph 118. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 13a (Commission ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Art. 284 is amended as follows: "Packing up of election papers and materials, used in the vote Art. 284. (1) After counting the votes used in the vote election papers and materials, except for the papers under art. 285, para. 1 shall be sealed with signed by the members of the Commission and stamped with the double printed paper strips and packaged separately. (2) Separately packaged papers and materials used in the vote shall be transmitted by the members of the selection panel under art. 285, para. 1 of the Committee on Art. 287, para. 7 prior to the submission of the minutes with the election results of the Regional Election Commission. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 118 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u982	Statements? Mr. Georgiev, one minute. [[Reply from BSP LB.]] I shared my dream and my expectation of a voice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u983	Madam President, honourable Members! What do we suggest? A very simple formula to end the possibilities of falsifying the results. The election ballots that have participated in the selection shall be packaged separately and transmitted before the protocol with the determined election results is transmitted. If this is done, then you do not have the opportunity to fake the data in the protocol and adjust the ballots and then dig through the sacks. You've all seen, on TV, they've been digging through the corridors of the respective regional committees, the number of ballots, filling out protocols. If you want us to have a real democracy, agree to develop the two flows of the voting ballots with the protocols. This will not interfere with taking into account the election result, but will give a maximum guarantee of its honesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u984	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 98 MPs: 10, against 63, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal, which is to reject § 118 by importer. Vote 92 MPs: 91 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u985	Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: screated § 118a: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. Art. 285 is amended as follows: Art. 285. (1) The President and/or Vice-President, the Secretary and/or Member of the Commission shall transmit to the Regional Election Commission the copies of the minutes of the voting results intended for the Regional Election Commission and for the Central Election Commission, the electoral list of the annexes thereto, the list of persons who cannot be added to the electoral list, the list of additional entries of the escorts and the printout of the engine voting data in the sections where such voting takes place. (2) Upon acceptance of the minutes, the Regional Election Commission shall verify the factory number of the minutes with the numbers entered in the minutes referred to in art. 215........................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u986	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: for 6, against 63, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u987	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 119 be rejected. The Commission does not support the text of the importer under the heading. 1.. 3 and supports it under point 3. 4. The Commission shall propose the following version of § 120, which shall become the paragraph with the following number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 287, para. 8 the words "the district manager" shall be replaced by "the mayor of the municipality." The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 121 be rejected. Paragraph 122. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 122 to fall." The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 122 is out." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 122 be rejected. Paragraph 123. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 123 to fall." The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 123 is out." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 123 be rejected. Paragraph 124. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 124 to fall." The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 124 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u988	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 119 by importer which is not supported by the Commission and proposes to be rejected; § 120, which is not supported by points 1 4 with a proposed version by the Commission; § 121, which the Commission proposes to reject; § 122, which the Commission also proposes to reject; § 123, which is also proposed to reject; and § 124, which is proposed to be rejected. We are voting on Commission proposals for paragraphs 119 to 124 by importer, including.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u989	They voted 105 MPs: 95, against 3, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u990	Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs § 125 to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs - § 125 - is dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 125 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u991	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u992	Thank you, Madam President. As read, the Commission proposes that § 125 be dismissed. In his place, we propose the creation of a new § 125, which reads as follows: 297...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u993	Colleague, such proposals between first and second readings, please. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u994	It's an editorial proposal by member...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u995	But who's offered to drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u996	Madam President, this is an editorial proposal which has been discussed today at a meeting with the majority of the Conference of Presidents, and we have agreed on it anyway, that we will propose that the votes that do not go for any of the parties be excluded from the 4% barrier in the calculation of the 4% barrier.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u997	There's no such thing in the transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u998	Since this is art. 297 in the Election Code is the place of this proposal. Can I have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u999	Hold on, hold on. Paragraph 125 by importer is for the establishment of Section IXa with Articles 296a to 296d. I do not support this proposal and we end with 296, and then the time will come for art. 297. You're right this is the place, but after we vote Art. 296 with the letters. Do you have the report in front of you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u1000	I got it. Can I do it for art. 297 or later?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u1001	No, let's get this over with. You want a line, Mr. Kirilov? A statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u1002	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Indeed, since in the main text art. 127 there are no separate proposals, and since we voted five times for the status of the box, I do not vote for anyone, indeed, in the Legal Commission, and in my absence as chair of the Commission, this debate arose, my fellow Members have put this issue to the table. The truth is without going into details, description and so on that on the proposal concerning the details of para. 2 in art. 297 had a debate, there was a vote that was held in the Commission, but it was not in this report because it was rejected. Colleagues are fully justified, although not in the report, looking for experience and a way to include this issue in its systematic place. In view of the discussions that have taken place, in the coalition format on this issue, and in order to have peace in all the partners and in the civil society organisations and in the small parties and in all the stakeholders and entities, I propose that we support the proposal of colleagues, so that it is clear that I do not vote for anyone, but do not participate in any way in correcting the 4% barrier. If there is a possibility and there is a text also further explicitly pointing out that the votes with the box.. I do not vote for anyone............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u1003	Give me some text, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u1004	The colleague Delchev is ready to propose a text which was also agreed with the experts. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u1005	Hold on, hold on. To hear what they want, colleagues, and I can't navigate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u1006	Madam President, since with all the changes that have been announced so far, the National Assembly has introduced a new one, how to say it, a new institute in the ballot, and this is the box I am not voting for anyone, it is normal for us to adopt all the provisions concerning this box so that we can achieve the result that this National Assembly, the legislator, wishes to achieve. And it is to have the opportunity for people to express their protest vote, this vote to be real, but this vote does not affect the 4% barrier, as it is laid down by law, so that it ultimately indirectly raises the 4% barrier to 5, 6, 7, 8 and 10%. I understand why colleagues on the left, rather from the centre, from the DPS are very opposed to this proposal, because they will win the most, they will most benefit from raising the 4% barrier because they will get some votes that are not for them. The specific proposal is as follows: in art. 297, para. 2 at the end to add the words... except the votes under art. 279, para. 1, t. 6.................................................................................. [[Deputies from different parliamentary groups gather in front of the stand and talk to President Tsetska Tsacheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u1007	Give it a rest if you don't agree. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u1008	Madam President, as we are about to clarify the systematic place of this proposal, which, as far as I understand it, has the will to be adopted, I propose that we stop working day and continue voting on the Election Code tomorrow. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u1009	You mean: in the next plenary session, which will be held today a little later. [[Radio.]] Colleagues, there's no reverse opinion. There has been a proposal to put an end to the debates and votes on our only point of the extraordinary sitting and to proceed in the next plenary. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by Mr Delchev. We vote. [[Heckling]] Yeah, I know it wasn't voted out. And the debate isn't over. I'm not protection or debate. Vote 108 MPs: 93 against 11, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, the next plenary session regularly...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u1010	There's got to be 12 hours till the next day on the Labor Code!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-26.u1011	And who said we were under the Labor Code, Mr. Karadayi? The next regular plenary session will take place on 27 April 2016, Wednesday, at 9.00 a.m. I am adjourning the extraordinary plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
