ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members, today is the first Wednesday in February, which affects our weekly programme, as the items on the agenda are included under special rules of our Rules, namely by the order of art. 50, para. 8 on proposals from the parliamentary groups. In view of the rotation for this month, the first is the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. There is no proposal received from them. There has been a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka and this will therefore be the first point: 1. Project for a recovery decision on the construction of the South Stream project. Importers scuse Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. There are no proposals from the parliamentary groups of ABB and GERB. There was a proposal from the group of BSP left Bulgaria and this is respectively point two, namely: 2. First vote on the Bill to supplement the Penal Code. Importers "Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. No proposals were received from the other parliamentary groups. 3. Project for a decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. This point is envisaged in extended working hours today.... at 14.00 hours. In the clamp is written: immediately after the completion of parliamentary control according to the order of art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 4. Projects for decisions on changes in permanent delegations of the National Assembly. Importer Chetin Kazak. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. A sequel to yesterday's captivity day. 6. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act. Importers.. Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs. 7. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. Draft Law on ratification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matters, as amended by the Protocol amending the Convention on Mutual Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matters, entered into force on 1 June 2011. 9. Draft Law on the ratification of the multilateral agreement between competent authorities on automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 11. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Regional Development. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 12. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Implementation between the Member States participating in the cooperation programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 13. A bill to ratify the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including a Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the ESPON. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 14. Draft law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 15. A bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on the institutional framework of the Southeast European disaster preparedness and prevention initiative signed on 28 November 2013 in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 16. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly The blitzcontrol scheduled for Wednesday, today, at 12:00 p.m. 17. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 " 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, starts with a debate on the question No 554-05-121 of 11 December 2015 by the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Emil Raynov, Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov on the obligations of the Minister of Health according to art. 58 of the Health Act implementing the common policy on compulsory immunizations included in the Immunization calendar. After the debates and voting on the draft decision, we continue with answers to questions and questions to the ministers by MPs. Please vote, fellow Members. Vote 162 MPs: 135 against 6, abstention 21. The proposal for an agenda has been accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u2	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I suggest we vote on this. 3 off the agenda for the following reasons. There is no problem in tomorrow or Friday on a proposal from the President or any of the Members of the National Assembly that this item will be included for consideration. My considerations today to suggest that this point be dropped are for nothing else, but because, according to our Constitution, the National Assembly elects the Prime Minister, but on his proposal, the composition of the Council of Ministers. And it would be good when personal changes are proposed to the Council of Ministers, to do so by those who have the right to do so, not to send us letters. That is, the fact that Mr. Prime Minister is abroad today clearly has important work, there is no obstacle when he is in the country tomorrow or the day after that, to include this item on the agenda and to come to the National Assembly to justify his proposal. I am making this proposal, not for anything else, but because we ourselves have to respect the institution that we represent. It would be good to require those authorities that we choose to respect the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u3	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. For a reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u4	May I have the same parliamentary group?...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u5	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm making a reverse offer. In fact, this item has entered the agenda because there is a draft decision proposed by the Council of Ministers. The Prime Minister has obviously proposed exactly the kind of solution to be discussed and voted in the National Assembly. So I see no reason to postpone this point. It won't be a precedent, it's not the first time we're going to vote on a cabinet member without the Prime Minister being here. I think in the last few days we have been convinced of Mr. Borisov's support for Mrs. Kuneva. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u6	I put to the vote Mr. Atanasov's procedural proposal for dropping point three of the program. Mr. Atanasov, when do you propose? Drop out of the weekly program at all?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u7	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u8	That's how I figured it out. They voted 152 MPs: 63, against 67, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 27 January to 2 February 2016: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Declaration of the Communist Mode in Bulgaria as Criminal. Importers: Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Willi Lilkov. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Education and Science. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Disasters. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and to the Committee on Education and Science. Bill on the archive of documents of the State Security Archive and of the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importer: Atanas Merdjanov and group of MPs. The lead Committee is the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on Defence. Annual report of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data for its activity in 2015. The Commission for the Protection of Personal Data is the importer. It has been allocated to the Commission internal security and public order. Draft decision on a change in the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. He's an importer, Chetin Kazak. Draft Decision concerning the Debate No 55405-121 of 11 December 2015 by the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dr. Emil Raynov, Dr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Dr. Hassan Ademov to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov regarding the obligation of the Minister of Health according to art. 58 of the Health Act implementing the common policy on compulsory immunizations included in the Immunization calendar. Draft decision change in the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. He's an importer, Chetin Kazak. Annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union It is distributed to all the permanent committees of the National Assembly, not to read them. A food chain risk assessment bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It's still been allocated to the Health Committee. For a decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers. On 2 February 2016, a report was received by the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 December 2015. On 25 January 2016 and Protocol No 5 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. In my letter, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We're moving on to the legislative section. Project for a recovery decision on the construction of the South Stream project. There is no report from the Energy Commission. On behalf of the importers Mr. Siderov, we are listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We offer your attention on the grounds of art. Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 86 of the Constitution. 85, para. I will read the decision itself and the reasons: The Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria is invited to take the necessary steps to restore the project's construction activities. Within one month of the adoption of this Decision, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria undertakes to restore the activities of the South Stream project. As you all know, this is a project that has been stopped, its implementation has been stopped by the previous government under external pressure. We all know that after three U.S. senators visited, former Prime Minister Oresharski came out and said he stopped working on the construction of South Stream. In practice, however, the stop itself was done by letter from Minister of the Service a few months later. In any case, Bulgaria was the country that actively took measures to stop the work on the construction of South Stream. This job has been very advanced. Jobs were to be opened for perhaps more than 5,000 people, investments worth more than 3 billion. EUR and receive a fee of about 400 million. Euros each year. All this was crossed with one blow, as I said, by external pressure. In today's National Assembly has the historic chance to restore the sovereignty of our country by assigning the government to resume the work on the South Stream. I will use the case to remind that the current Prime Minister Borisov in one or two interviews stated his regret, so to say, on the occasion of the suspension of the South Stream. I even read his statement saying, "If I had remained in power, this project would have been completed. " I accept with confidence his words, which mean that he is regretting the end of the South Stream. This can be corrected today by voting on the current decision that we are proposing to you by the Parliamentary Group of Of course, there will be debate now, and one of the opponents of the project will come out and say that the project is stopped, that this is something irreparable. I'll just say a few arguments against. From the real suspension of the South Stream project until today there have been geopolitical events that are in our favor, in favor of Bulgaria. I am referring to the war crime committed by the Republic of Turkey by the overthrow of the Russian fighter plane, which we have, by the way, proposed a declaration that gathers dust somewhere in the drawers. Whatever. Bulgaria's option to be ignored through the so-called "Turkish Stream" dropped categorically after the upheaval of relations between the Republic of Turkey and the Russian Federation. This is a profitable, extremely profitable moment for Bulgaria, at which we can correct the mistakes of previous governments to use the situation in which the natural gas pipe for Europe to pass through Bulgaria again. As I have already said, this will bring great economic benefits, but not only are the direct economic benefits important, it is the geostrategic goal that we can achieve with the construction of South Stream. Passing through Bulgaria, such a pipeline automatically turns our country into a protected territory. Here I am connecting with the very sharp and ill problem of Europe at the moment with the so-called refugees, we call them the aliens, the migrants, the illegal migrants. You know that this is a huge problem and European leaders are just blocked and do not know what to do. In practice, Europe shows weakness and inability to deal with the issue. We also know that terrorism today is a danger to a Europe that is constantly being talked about. Becoming part of a pipeline such as South Stream, Bulgaria receives the protection of several countries, as at least 8 countries from Europe are interested in the project. It also becomes part of the protected territory in which both Russia and the countries will participate until the end of the pipeline, to Italy, countries that will look otherwise at our country. We will therefore be protected from the very fact that such an important pipeline is passing through our territory. With these arguments, given also the economic benefits and that such a project will move very strongly the creation of jobs, work for dozens of Bulgarian companies and the very deadly Bulgarian economy will move, I think there should be no hesitation today to take this decision and to vote on the proposal of the Council of Ministers to renew the work on the construction of South Stream. Bulgaria to be the active country to offer the Russian country the renewal of the project. Yes, there are grounds for that, and there are signs, signs that we judge that the Russian side has not quite given up on this project. Immediately before New Year's Eve, Russian President Putin made this clear in the big interview he gives each year. He pointed out that Bulgaria is not excluded from the Russian projects, that is, despite all the actions so far, the possibility remains for the South Stream to be renewed. I appeal to you to vote for our proposal. In this way, we can correct a number of other misunderstandings and errors made in this National Assembly only with this vote. If we do this, today will remain as a historic day for Bulgaria, and the benefits for our country will be undeniable! Thank you for your attention. I'll have a chance to debate on the subject further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u10	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any MPs who wish to take part in it? Here you go, Mr. Enchev. [[Sighs: "Eee!" by the majority.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u11	Madam President, honourable Members! As soon the ruling majority, with few exceptions, will press the red button and will reject this good proposal entirely in the interests of Bulgaria, the Ataka Party and Volen Siderov, I would like to state my considerations on the issue. I believe that, as has been said before me, we have Bulgaria has the unique opportunity to take advantage of the geopolitical situation in regional and global terms, of the highly strained relations between the Russian Federation and Turkey, while permanently strained political, and do not give God, military relations, and to implement the project entirely in favor of Bulgaria, which, according to the experts, will only bring from the transit fees at least 300 million. Euros. What is this country that will afford to lose 300 million? Euros?! Well, this country is called Bulgaria and is the poorest country in the European Union, with the lowest standard of living. According to what logic is the Nord Stream 1 and 2 is legitimized and the Bulgarian Stream is, as should be called the new project, not legitimate?! In what logic, when we talk about energy projects, two Russian nuclear reactors in Turkey are legitimate, and the nuclear power plant is not legitimate and rejected by the European Commission? More precisely, we do not even ask this question, as we are waiting for the Court of Arbitration's ruling, and you are aware that Bulgaria will have to pay nearly 1 billion. Euros! According to what logic, honourable Members, the European Commission gave its consent to the realization of the Turkish Stream before the Russian plane was shot down, and by what logic is it not legitimate, even before the new year the European Commission gave its consent to the realization of the Turkish Stream?! Obviously this is about double standards imposed not only by the officials from Brussels, but especially by the new masters of the Bulgarian elite and the Bulgarian coalition. Moreover, among the new masters is also the Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of Party GERB Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, at the moment of the irrigation breakfast with US President Barack Obama. Barack Obama! The Americans say "no" to the Bulgarian stream and for this reason you will press the red button in a moment to say "no" to the Bulgarian stream. But before you press the red button, I want to remind you who is responsible, most responsible for what is currently happening with the realization of the South Stream. There is no other prime minister of a Member State of the European Union who, within a week, will be allowed to say first: I am not saying that Prime Minister Boyko Borisov is the only one responsible and responsible for blocking the South Stream project. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, it's not liquidating. However, he is the most responsible of all the prime ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and bears his historical responsibility. If you now press the red button and you will, you will join his responsibility as Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. And to refresh your memory, I will remind you what Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova said maybe a week before this statement by Mr. Borisov to the American Chamber. This is her statement before the visit of US Secretary of State John Carey to Bulgaria. Quoting: Perhaps you remember that in early June, when we were in opposition, Borisov and I had a high-level meeting in the United States at the time was highly appreciated his honesty. From the current visits we have seen how Bulgaria is again on the map of European and world interests. Let's not forget Mrs. Bachvarova says that Borisov is a prime minister who stopped three major energy projects of pipeline, pipeline and nuclear project! This is a strong political action that cannot be underestimated by our partners! In a global way, this is an extremely important solution. Until now, Bulgaria has been viewed as a possible hidden partner of Russia End quote. Do you want more evidence to prove the right of my words that you of GERB party, headed by your Prime Minister Boyko Metodiev Borisov, are the most responsible, in a moment you will be the most responsible for stopping a project entirely for the benefit of the Bulgarian economic interests? [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] It's a good thing you're reacting right now and you have the opportunity to react.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u12	Colleagues, please, no lines from the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u13	Thank you. I'll save the rest of the minute for the back of your lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u14	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Reply of MP Tasco Ermenkov to President Tsetska Tsacheva.]] Colleagues, I'm asking for a serious attitude towards the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u15	Madam President, honourable Members! I understand the concern of my colleagues from the Ataka on the security of energy supply in Bulgaria; that there should be more options for gas supply; that if we remain only on the branch of transit that is currently going through Ukraine, there is a great risk that this transit will be terminated, including transit through Bulgaria, will also be gone. I understand that they are worried about the option: if only a North Stream 2 is built instead of a transiting country, Bulgaria will become a final point of gas supply, without any influence on its further transportations only a small consumption, you know, it is not at all large in Bulgaria, which determines the higher prices of natural gas in Bulgaria. However, I do not understand one single thing, and this is very bothering me: why are we talking at the moment, as proposed, about restoring the project's construction activity In general, I will be excused by my colleagues at Ataka. It is very much to suggest that we change the name. By the way, there were such proposals here, of someone who died to revive him. There is no such project anymore, colleagues, unless the colleagues from "Attack" have any documents that we do not know this project exists anywhere! I would ask them, if they had such documents, to present them to us, because otherwise what they offer us is rather some kind of fireworks that tries to blow up in the sky over Bulgaria........................................................................................................ is................................................................................................................................... We are a unique country that races to show who in what way and why has stopped projects that have been useful to the state was an accusation to Mr Oresharski's previous government, or to the present one. Each of these governments is responsible for the fact that today we do not have this project, which could be one of the locomotives for the movement of the Bulgarian economy. The fact that someone has admitted that one has become under the guise of external factors and another complains to the American Chamber of Commerce that they are doing everything possible, but nobody understands us, talks not about the power, talks about our weakness as a state to defend our national interests, to defend the interests of the Bulgarian people and, above all, about the development of the Bulgarian economy. With proposals that do not have any real opportunity to be realized not because we do not want, but because the opposite country has already ended these contracts, there is no way to improve the situation of the economy, except to show how we are supposedly positive and how concerned we are about this economy and this development. Unfortunately, the facts tell us that the South Stream project no longer exists one time, because the Southern Stream Transport BV, the company that had to build the maritime part of the pipeline, ended its contractual relationship with the South Stream Transport BV. Before that, this same company bought out the shares of its foreign partners inside, and then ceased its existence, in the sense that it refused to build, as a result of which, you know, from 1 February, an Italian company has filed claims for about 760 million. EUR for the fact that this project no longer exists and is suspended. All this proves that to talk at the moment about the revival of South Stream is at least extravagant, not to say that in such serious projects as the supply of gas to Bulgaria, security of supplies, profit from transit, any such actions that are not prepared and which inevitably will lead to negative voting or abstinence even for those who are convinced that there should be such supplies will give a bad message, including in international terms. No one will enter into the depth of the fact that the MPs have abstained or voted against it, because there is no such project, but will simply say: "Behold, they have rejected these opportunities. The Bulgarian Socialist Party is a responsible political force, which is trying even in the situation of opposition to offer reasonable solutions, which may not be personal to the current government, which may not be supported, but decisions that are far from populism and are concerned about the development of the Bulgarian economy, something that is extremely important for Bulgaria, because without economics, only with European money, only with operational programmes, which in 2020 will stop and there will be no more without having made those production capacities that generate gross domestic product, as a state will soon be there and we will become a yard to show what an unreasonable governance can do in the modern world. In this regard, being convinced that Bulgaria must maintain its role as a transiting country of gas; being convinced that natural gas is one of the sources of energy that is in line with the environmental requirements; having a deep understanding that there is no way at the moment, in this situation and geostrategic problems, to resolve only by our government the things that should be, to start negotiations or to assign them to make decisions that are at least bilateral, for which consent is sought by another country, we propose a version of a solution which I believe reflects the interests of the state and around which I think we can unite all who really want in Bulgaria to have secure natural gas supplies, Bulgaria to preserve its geostrategic role as a gas distributor. Moreover, that hub that the rulers are constantly talking about is not just a bump in the air and some imaginary dream, but a reality! Madam President, allow me to read this version of a decision which I will then present to you in writing. ? RESPONSIBILITY? extending the country's supply and transit capacity for natural gas The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to take the necessary action to expand the country's capacity for supplies and transit of natural gas. 2. It obliges the Council of Ministers to initiate negotiations with the governments of Romania and the Russian Federation on the construction of maritime pipelines connecting the Republic of Bulgaria with these countries. If we unite around this solution, there will be, first of all, the meaning of building a gas hub, a gas distributor or whatever you want to call it, on our Black Sea coast, because then there will really be where gas comes from, we will provide future gas supplies, we will try to take all the necessary measures to diversify not only the sources but also the routes. In this way, we will ensure the security of gas supplies as one of the elements of national security and a prerequisite for the development of the economy of the state "something that I think is of interest to everyone, and especially to young people who, in a developing economy, will have jobs and will not leave the country. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u16	Mr. Ermenkov, what you have read is irrelevant to this Draft Decision, as it is a whole new project.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u17	These are editorial notes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u18	No. Deliveries and transit of natural gas you talk about hubs and so on. There is no obstacle to submitting it as a draft decision and to enter into the appropriate order, but as an amendment, there is no way I can accept it and put it to the vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB]] Colleagues who are the subject of the debate and the Project for a solution are the South Stream project. In Mr. Ermenkov's version, there's no word for South Stream, so that's not relevant.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u19	There's nothing else we're talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u20	I don't mind. Let him bring it in as a project for a decision, he'll get into a room and so on. Any lines to Mr. Ermenkov? I won't. Any other MPs? [[Reply from Velizar Enchev from the spot.]] The five minutes are up, Mr. Enchev. The line, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Ermenkov, I never thought that with our proposal, which is under procedure and which has no way of proposing anything yet invented, I would not have imagined that with this decision I would awaken such conspiracy thoughts and fears in the Bulgarian Socialist Party. I think she is more serious about such topics and projects, and I am amazed that you have seen such a plot against your party, proposing that we restore South Stream. It is clear to me very well that what is called the South Stream is largely terminated and, in order to start working, many new actions must be carried out. But with this decision that we propose, we untie the government's hands. In fact, by acting on the South Stream, you can also go to the option that you mentioned. I was going to say it in the debate further, but you rushed to explain how wrong we were proposing. No, it's not wrong. Untying the government's hands means that the Bulgarian government can start negotiating on such a project as you are talking about the so-called hub or distributor. But to start talking about this project, there has to be a solution to the Assembly. With today's decision in the way we propose, because we cannot change it now, we are giving this opportunity. And the government, if it is flexible enough, can start working on the project for the so-called hub, which the Prime Minister has mentioned many times that it wants to do, that it can be done that this way the obstructions of the European Commission will be overcome, which, with its requirements, will not now discuss whether they are a double standard or not, practically blocks the South Stream. Today, if we adopt this decision, it can enable the government to act flexiblely, to start negotiating, including for such a distributor. But something has to be done. Some step, some gesture. As the old joke says, you have to post a ticket to expect a profit. With this decision that we propose today, we propose to release a ticket. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u22	Second line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u23	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I'm surprised to hear from you. You're still talking about some marine pipelines in what you've read to us. I want to tell you that these maritime pipelines, I think, are only in your head and in that bill that you tried to push through the National Assembly, which was stopped during the Oresharski period. By the way, in that bill, by introducing this term "Smart gas," an attempt was made to circumvent and exist then the Bulgarian legislation, and the European in the face of a third energy package and to implement a project that was obviously not in the interest of Bulgaria, which introduced a monopoly in gas supply. This thing comes directly into my mind when I hear you say the sea service and immediately the question arises. I've wanted to ask you a long time ago: that bill then, who drew it up? Because it was made public that he was written in Moscow. For us the question is who wrote this bill there, and why did you have any attitude towards bringing such a thing? There are no maritime pipelines in the Bulgarian legislation and you cannot offer such things, provided they are not recorded in the Law. If you answer me, I would be grateful.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u24	Third line? A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u25	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Siderov, I didn't suspect any plots. On the contrary, I have only shown hope that you have some documents that may possibly give you reason that there is a South Stream. It was hope. It wasn't suspicion. It is precisely because we are a serious party that we are proposing serious solutions. We do not want to offer solutions that a priori, even if they are adopted, will have no solution. Because, theoretically speaking, let's assume that we all support your decision and say to resume the negotiations on the South Stream, tomorrow the government will come with an answer and will say: "Yes, thank you, I have implemented the decision. I wrote Russia a letter. That's where they told me there's no such project. Period. It's a done deal. We're safe and sound. There's no gas. What we have proposed was perhaps the sensible solution, and perhaps the good way from now on, when we talk about gas, when we talk about infrastructure projects, is not to make individual shares with no idea what purpose, but to try first, to find that consensus between the parliamentary forces in the interests of Bulgaria, and then to go public with proposals, decisions, at least to find some support or any reason for that. Mr. Slavov, the prosecutor's office on your report last year, according to your own, I mean not your own personally, but your associates, had aroused such an action to investigate the question that you are asking, and the answer is that there is no evidence that anyone else wrote it except me and Mr. Kuyumdjiev. So if you don't agree with my answer, then you don't agree with the prosecution's conclusion. Otherwise, your conspiracy theories, perhaps from personal experience, knowing how you conspire, where you get money and whose documents and laws you write, give you reason to think that everyone is like you. They're not, Mr. Slavov! They didn't! [[Applause from BSP left Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u26	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed. I call on the Members of the National Assembly to vote in the Chamber. Project! DECISION to restore the project's construction activity "South Stream" The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to take the necessary steps to restore the activity of building the project "South Stream." 2. Within one month of the adoption of this Decision, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria undertakes to restore the activity of building the South Stream project. Colleagues, voting regime. They voted 109 MPs: 27, against 17, abstention 65. The decision is not accepted. Moving on to: FIRST READING OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX, No 554-01-176. Importer (s) Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs on 12 November 2015 It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. There's no report. On behalf of the importers, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u27	Madam President, honourable Members! At your attention we have proposed a change in the Penal Code, led by what happened in the last elections. Our analysis has shown, and you have all witnessed, that the electoral process was largely and in many settlements corrupted by the drafting of protocols, which, rudely speaking, were manipulated. This will probably happen again in the future if we all do not take measures to prevent what has happened. With this Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, we aim to take such measures to limit the possibility of correcting and adding protocols with established results, so we also propose in the provision of art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 where those civil rights, which are thus protected by criminalisation, are indicated and listed, should actually be added after the word.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The composition of this crime involves drawing up false documents, rewriting the contents of such documents. We believe that one of the most important civil rights, and this is selective law, will be better protected by the proposed amendments, and thus will deter those unscrupulous members of the committees who, in their activities, allow themselves to manipulate the results. I therefore appeal to you to support this proposal at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u28	The debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Colleagues, we have a proposal to supplement the Penal Code. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! You know that the legal framework is in principle always lag behind the public opinion, the development of society and the relationship within it. Unfortunately, in the last local elections in 2015, we had to experience all of us as a society, as citizens, behind this legal framework in the development and replacement of policies with technology in relation to the conduct of the elections, because every nine out of ten protocols have been reformed. The results are due to this remodeling, and in this regard we have proposed that there should be a clear responsibility in the Criminal Code and in relation to the members of the sectional committees, of the municipal committees, when they modify an official document, draw it up with false content. And this whole policy is expressed in one sentence in art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 2 after the comma and the word The composition of the crime involves drawing up false documents or rewriting the contents of such documents after elections. The current regulation does not sufficiently guarantee the protection of citizens' electoral rights, which is why we believe that the protection of citizens' political rights is no less important than the protection of property, financial revenues and other public relations that are affected by document crimes. If we want to have an attitude democratic, legal, European and with regard to the compositions of crimes and these crimes that are taking place during elections and which are all witnesses here, and some of them instigators and aiders, let us accept this amendment in the Criminal Code. In this way, I think we will give a good signal to the public, to those people who voted for each of the MPs and sent them here to protect their interests, above all, and not to encounter election results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u30	Any lines to Mr. Popov? I won't. Mr. Slavcho Atanasov for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u31	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I can talk about this a lot, but I'll be very brief. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support the proposal of fellow Members of the Left. Just one example of the newly passed elections about two months ago, famous Plovdiv televisions, well-known national televisions filming how colleagues in the hall of a regional election commission open sacks, rewrite documents and replace numbers in these protocols and, as you can see, at this stage, no reaction to this issue, although these things are given where they should and where they should be, so in this regard we will strongly support you because this is about replacing the most sacred thing of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u32	- What's the line? There are no lines. A statement from Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u33	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The position of the MPs from the Patriotic Front for me is natural, expected and respectable, but I believe that this Bill will receive full support from all MPs who are currently in the Chamber because there can be no democrat, there cannot be an honest man and a true politician who does not support this text. I, too, will not give examples, I will not point to what is wronging us and humiliating us during the elections. With this legislation, we will warn anyone who thinks and goes over his head that he can fake the elections, that it will be impunity, at least at the level of protocols. I therefore expect us to vote unanimously under this Law in order to express the will and the position to which all who have so far carried out this act, worthy of punishment, so that it does not happen in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u34	Any lines to Mr. Bojinov? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u35	Madam President, honourable Members! He rightly pointed out that there is a text in the Penal Code. 308. If you do not know, let me remind you: the members of the electoral committees are officials and, under the legislation in force, of course, they are criminally liable when they consciously draw up, modify, import data or false documents. The amendments to the protocols themselves will also be on this subject. At the end of 2012 and at the beginning of 2013 in this parliamentary hall we proposed scanning all the protocols so that it could be clear to everyone, to the public, what are the protocols. Honourable Members, you left then and for weeks did not enter the Chamber so that this text would not be adopted. Let me remind you of that. [[Private applause from GERB.]] If anyone here wants to convince me that by the time the election protocols were scanned, there were no repairs, there were no additions, there was no replacement of election protocols, it was a complete delusion. Let's see what part of the electoral protocols, corrections or supplements are related to the preferential vote that you made with these boxes, squares, and how much in this preferential vote is the so-called "controlled vote" when clearly and consciously the voter fills in one, two, three for a reference, just to account for who he voted for the party vote. I understand that there must be some excuse, but let's go back to the years when entire polling stations replaced the protocols. Well, that's what we did in the first Election Code to have numbers so they couldn't be replaced, three-ply, four-ply paper to give to the election process participants, to hang on the dashboard, something that wasn't there until 2011. Let me also remind you of this and finally be scanned and uploaded to the Internet immediately. That is what it is to prevent this wicked practice. And that there might be repairs, there might be repairs when they were wrong, when they misspelled the numbers. Yeah, but that's why there's a prosecutor's office, that's why there's texts in the Penal Code, that's why there's a committee where these protocols are presented. To remind you, in 2013, you did not wish to take the proposed text for scanning all electoral protocols. Should I give you back before that how the elections were sent out from abroad and no one knew what was written in them, and the election papers came after six months, one year, two years, during your management? [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u36	First line, Mr. Bojinov. The subject of discussion is the Penal Code, not the electoral process. I have to remind you. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u37	Thank you for reminding me, Madam President. Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Lazarov, I could not understand with what you said, do you want to justify your personal position or the parliamentary group that it will not support this bill? That is today's question. Otherwise, if it is a question of remembering things, we can recall such ugly facts, events, names and trials that have ended without result that it is unnecessary. The question is, and I'm asking you in the backseat to answer, because this has not become clear, and that is why I replicate you: will you support this text, or do you justify your and your parliamentary group a future vote? That's the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u38	Second line? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Lazarov, your position regarding the Bill has not been made clear to those present in the Chamber. You are returning us to a legislation that is virtually no longer valid and does not work, we are talking about the current laws. It is clear to all colleagues who have participated in elections that during the electoral process these protocols are being suspended, given some information, but it is clear to everyone that they are being amended, which very seriously alter the objective truth, i.e. what the vote of voters is and what is the opinion of the members of the electoral committee designated by them. The proceedings following the appeal, including the submission of a complaint to the Prosecutor's Office, shall end with the rejection of the requests, in particular, of those who have suffered similar actions by the members of the sectional election committees. We believe that it is precisely necessary for such a text to be written in the Penal Code in order to be able to act at least disciplined to the members of the sectional election committees. There are not one, there are not two cases, especially in the last elections, which have now passed for local power, when they were deliberately not applied or manipulated the results in terms of preferences, for which many people were wronged. Such a text certainly threatens those who make such manipulations within the content of the protocol, with prosecution, not to do so again. We rely on your group because you are also being deprived of such practice to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u40	Third line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u41	Thank you, Madam President. That's what I said, Mr. Lazarov. You replaced the policy with technology, whether to be freshman, xerocopyed, scanned and so on the protocols of the sectional election committees. We are talking about something else here. We are talking about politics, prosecution of those who fall into para. 2 of art. 308 of the Penal Code, because there are certificates of heirs, acts of civil status, notary acts. There it is a qualified composition and imprisonment is up to eight years, and by para. 1 is up to three years. In view of these public relations, given the most valuable thing that the previous colleague mentioned, which is being taken away in practice by falsifying these protocols, and this is the free choice to vote the Bulgarian citizen for who he finds well and his vote to be corrupted subsequently. Therefore, those who are accomplices who are guilty of committing this crime, it is normal to punish them with imprisonment in a qualified composition of para. 2 to 8 years. Here, referring to the Election Code, this is not an excuse not to support such a text, because not supporting this text is a lack of policy by the state, by the ruling majority in terms of justice and the punishment of those who have reached out to our most valuable right and in the Constitution to exercise our right to vote freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u42	A hole, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u43	Mrs. Chairman! At the lines made, yes, in my personal capacity, I have spoken and reminded you that there is a text in the Penal Code that can prosecute officials who commit these crimes. It's in Chapter of Documentary Crimes. If you look in Section "Selective Rights of Citizens" there are also texts in which such criminal liability can be sought. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u44	That's another question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u45	My principal position on other proposals to amend the Criminal Code has always been that, on certain compositions, it starts to be listed: both for this particular case and for this particular case, and for this particular case, this actually narrows the scope of the criminal law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u46	That's clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u47	Dear Mr. Bojinov, I listened to you, I didn't replicate you, I didn't show you, and the fact that you didn't understand is your problem. You won't know for a long time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u48	I'm watching what you do in elections, I'm not listening to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u49	To speak, there is Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! The debate so far has been running away from its most common part, namely we want fair elections, proper counting, correct protocols. Then the logical question arises: why shouldn't all parties unite around the engine vote? In the presidential election there will be an engine vote up to 500 sections. Why don't we accept that there's a machine voting everywhere?! I've been voting machine in my section in Sofia at French High School for seven years. There's no one talking about manipulated protocols, change of vote, change of vote. There's no such thing. I'd like to ask the entire parliament and personally and Mr. Lazarov. I'll even mention it. Why don't we unite to have machine voting all over the country? We've got time to get him into half the section for the presidential election...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u51	The debate is about the Election Code, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u52	Yeah, well, things are connected. The bill that imports BSP is how the protocols should be correct, what should be done. That is their question, and I answer how to correct the protocols. This is the question of BSP colleagues. I am very much on the subject, Madam President, for those who are careful in this House. Why not put in place a machine vote for half the sections for the presidential elections and all the sections for the next parliamentary elections?! I want to ask you... I see Mr. Lazarov left when I brought this up. I heard a lot of colleagues say their problem was the preferential vote. But if there's a machine vote, there won't be a problem with preferences anywhere. There won't be any misplaced preferences unless someone wants to make a mistake. And there will be no problem with the vote. There will be no MPs to carry sacks, to make it difficult for them, and other people, in such an activity that is unattractive to them. Then the e-vote. Let us also unite around the electronic vote, but I see that the BSP will not e-vote. There will still be no altered protocols, there will still be no fraud, there will still be no replacement of the vote. Only to introduce an electronic vote, experts say it takes at least two years. Experts say it takes two years for an electronic vote, but in order not to wait two years and to eliminate any doubt about manipulation of the vote, I suggest the following way of action: to immediately activate the amendments to the Election Code, to introduce machine voting in half of the sections at least for the presidential elections and everywhere for the next parliamentary elections whenever they are. That's what I'm offering you as a strategy. At the same time, accepting the electronic vote, which will take some time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u53	On the proposed bill, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u54	Of course, Madam President, but I respond to the BSP Bill and their concern about how the protocols should be correct. You see how happy they are with the answers they receive. It has nothing to do with the subject of the fall of the conference Mr. Lazarov spoke of. Here I specifically address colleagues from GERB. Colleagues from GERB, if you are thinking of canceling the preferential vote, you will do a lot of trouble because the activity and participation in the next elections will drop dramatically. If the Bulgarians find out that someone wants to take away the opportunity to vote the party to arrange the people's elects, but people to be able to change the lists, then if you take this right away from them, in one form or another the result will be punishment for the entire political system in the form of low participation in the next elections. For the presidential elections, there are no preferences, so they are an excellent opportunity for a more massive introduction of machine voting. Honourable Members, we must in no case give up the preferential vote. That's not the problem. That is not the problem with the protocols, that is not the problem with the Bulgarian electoral system.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u55	Mr. Dimitrov, you are no longer on the subject here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u56	That's what Mr. Lazarov said, if you'd listened to him, Mrs. Tsacheva. Mr. Lazarov said the problem with the protocols came from the preferential vote. Unfortunately, you didn't pay attention to his long speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u57	She was shorter than yours at times. [[crowd cheering in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u58	But you, unfortunately, Madam President, are selective in listening to the people who take the floor, which is not good.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u59	You're insulting me that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u60	Finally, the question is what will the National Assembly has, ladies and gentlemen, whether we will make elections democratic, European, introducing modern technologies into them, or looking for fictional problems. Otherwise, I am personally inclined to support the BSP Bill because I am against manipulated protocols. But that's not how it's gonna work, guys. It will not only be done with the introduction of criminal liability, but will first be done by machine voting and by e-voting afterwards. That's how it's gonna work!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u61	Let's start somewhere!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u62	First line, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u63	Mr. Dimitrov, first of all, thank you for supporting this legislative proposal. It does include that act in the qualified composition. I don't think there's any reason for it to be diverted. You understand that. But since you have expanded the topics of your speech, I would like to ask you: why, as a consistent advocate of the preferential vote, do you exclude the possibility of applying it to the presidential elections? Why is it that when the parties propose that the couple run for president and vice president, she should be forced on them?! They can preferentially mix them, and according to the arrangement, if one is elected, one will be president, and the other will be vice president. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB. National Representative Dimitar Lazarov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u64	You want a second line, Mr. Lazarov? No, you want a personal explanation. Come in for a second line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u65	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, because you suggested, if I have understood correctly and I quote you, that half of the sections have machine voting during the presidential elections, and that all sections have machine voting during the parliamentary elections whenever they are. What if they get up at the same time, what do we do?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u66	Third line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u67	Mr. Dimitrov, I share your opinion on the engine vote. Remember, this was our offer, and we introduced it. Thanks to this, you managed to vote in your machine section.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u68	That's not true. In 2010, it wasn't your...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u69	With regard to the electronic remote voting, the debate is quite different. I don't want to go in there for and against. There are both opinions. Most of them are against. We're talking prevention here, fear of prosecution. Let's take this first step. The two texts of the Criminal Code and the Election Code must be supplemented, not opposed. Let's take this first step, and then we'll take the engine vote. One doesn't interfere with the other.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u70	A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u71	When you were the leader of the SDS, you used to line up the lists, didn't you?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I'll start with Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's line. I understand it this way: I do not want to admit it directly, Mr. Stoilov said, but I am against the preferential vote and I will ironize it by saying to apply to the presidential elections because I am uncomfortable to say in front of all of you that I do not want a preferential vote from now on, so I will ironize it on every occasion. That's what Mr. Stoilov said. Mr. Stoilov, be a man and tell yourself. Say to yourself: "I do not want a preferential vote, I want the BSP to arrange their lists and not be able to rearrange them. " So say, be more honest, do not use the irony as a way to imagine the position. It's much more honest to stand up and tell yourself. Here, Mr. Lazarov said. He said that he did not like the preferential vote, but I hope this is his personal position and not to concern the entire GERB group. As for the engine vote, Mr. Popov, so the engine vote was introduced so that it was limited to 500 sections of nearly 11,000 total. That's too small. It's too small, colleagues, for seven years. And I asked you the following question: Is the Bulgarian Parliament ready to introduce the mass machine voting for the presidential election, voting by machine terminals? If you're not ready, I wanted to ask you, colleagues, what's bothering you? If you want honest protocols, there should be a machine vote if you want there to be no replacement of the vote and an accurate counting of preferences. In other words, what stops the Bulgarian Parliament from adopting a machine vote for at least half of the sections of the presidential elections? No one knows, Mr. Ermenkov, when the parliamentary will be. As no one knows, we must prepare ourselves, and when they come, let people know that there is a certain degree of readiness; that there will not be 500 sections for the presidential elections, as is now written in the Election Code, and that there will be at least half of them; let them be at least 5000 sections. That is why I ask the Bulgarian Parliament: if we really want fair elections, why not increase the engine vote? We will make such a concrete proposal, and then we will announce the name list of who voted how each of you voted. And if someone doesn't support extending the engine vote for the next election, then don't explain to us, fellow Members, that you want honest protocols, fairly counted preferences, that there will be no replacement of the vote, and don't explain these things to us. And don't tell us there's no money. If there's money for the SUVs you buy, if there's money for all kinds of weird expenses, there'll be money. [[BSP LB lines]] There will also be money for machine voting in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u73	Personal explanation, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u74	Madam President, honourable Members, why did I ask for a personal explanation? An extremely manipulative statement and suggestion from the colleague. That's how they're used to it, and that's how they're going to dig in and go on with the manipulations that are definitely not responding to what I've said! What I said is: an analysis of how many of these corrected, messed-up, edited protocols are in the voting part for a particular party, for a mayor, and how much are there for the preferences in the selection of municipal councillors in order to make an analysis of why it has come to the point that there have been 400,000 invalid ballots. Regarding the other suggestion, elementary references can be made to those who voted in these local elections with those who voted in the local elections in the previous 2011 to see how significantly the growth in the preferential vote has increased now. So don't pay attention to these extremely manipulative suggestions. I would like to recall: this part of the Chamber in the Forty-first National Assembly, when we corrected the Election Code in this particular part, some colleagues left the Chamber because they were arguing about which is the greater opposition to include in the Election Code representation in the Election Committees, BSP, or representatives of the Blue Coalition then.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u75	To speak, Mr. Ivanov. After him is Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u76	Madam President, honourable Members! Indeed, my request is that you take note of the seriousness of the problem that we are discussing. The violations that are committed during the electoral process, in particular the counterfeiting of protocols and other such violations within the scope of criminal law, certainly every year are pushing more and more Bulgarian voters away. You are witnessing how every year, every election, the percentage of voters decreases. This is precisely the result of doubting the honesty of the elections. You know that the criminal nature of such a measure has a preventive character. Prevention in this kind of crime is of the least importance to Bulgarian democracy. What happens in all elections, especially in the latter, is extremely revealing. What the voter has given as his vote, he has exercised his constitutional right and what is reflected in the protocol, in most cases, it is dramatically different and this must surely be pursued. Indeed, this concerns each and every one of you, including the system of preferences that has been introduced. Any one of the MPs who is here can be personally wronged. Colleagues, we need to take this very carefully and seriously to the problem that I am putting before you. This bill must be adopted and supported by all of us. What is the guarantee that each of us here, who is not a leader of the list, thanks to one of the sectional electoral or municipal electoral commission, will not suffer because the results in the ballots are one, and then the committee or any member of the committee have judged that one of their candidates is more sympathetic and has changed the results... what is in the bag of ballots and what is on the record is different, because it is pure forgery. This thing in no order has anyone been pursuing it until now. Deeds end without any result. Not to mention those who filed complaints about municipal councilors in the last election, how many of them were wronged. Therefore, I really ask you to take the necessary seriousness and adopt this preventive measure, which will stop future violations of the electoral rights of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u77	Any lines to Mr. Ivanov? I won't. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u78	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will say from the outset that I am strongly opposed to the proposal that we are discussing at this time the inclusion of a third norm, a third chamber, which will settle the same act. I will not comment on the composition of art. 308 The main and the qualified to which you want to add the particular case. And the unspeakable speaker misled you by the fact that the Penal Code did not regulate matter. Please, this is not the way you look at the provision of art. 169 in its second hypothesis, in which in any way remakes the outcome of elections or referendums is punishable by imprisonment from one to five years. So this is another more general and more precisely defined hypothesis for a composition in which we have a qualified act, respectively and punishment. It was not fair to silence this analysis and to say eventually: we offer you a re-categorisation of the act and to bring it into a more specific case of punishment where the punishment is up to eight years. Fine, but there's no lower limit. In this case, we have a lower limit to the penalty of one to five years. Penalist colleagues often criticize me as a non-penalist that, in a desire to impose criminal liability in some cases or other, in general, I suggest that we do so in criminal terms, I appeal to refrain in this case from the third dubulation. I also think why you are bringing in this bill, which is extremely short right now. If it were three months ago, I'd be looking for another intent, directly and directly related to the election results. Colleagues, I will draw your attention to the following: all parties are responsible for how we prepare our members in both the sectional election committees and in the district and municipal electoral committees, and in the CEC. I do not wish to comment on cases where the electoral process is hindered by instructed 70-year-old pensioners who deliberately delay elections, voting and deliberately make mistakes. [[BSP LB.]] Yes, Bulgarian citizens and most likely your party members, but perform incorrect commands [[speaking indistinctly]] And you're illegally inciting them to commit crimes and crimes. I would also like to remind you of the case of the local elections 2011, when your party functionary from Sofia was showing 27 missing minutes on TV. We're not talking about manipulation and so on. He showed them and commented on them at a press conference and said: "I found them, I don't know where. Colleagues, we have enough compositions. Again, I do not know what your particular populistic inspiration is, but in my opinion, it should not be supported, moreover, that this month we are open to making proposals that the parties find to be good under the Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u80	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I very much wanted to refrain from this example. On the occasion of your claim that we have enough texts, I object that they are not enough for good court practices and I will remind you of the case of the presidential elections with the joint local elections... the famous case in the village of Bhutan. The head of the Kozloduy Election Commission is a judge. Illegally open the bag, spot the results, under which are the signatures of the members of the committee, correct the name of the winner for mayor of the village of Bhutan. The Vratsa Court annulled this decision after opening the bag and seeing the forgeries, and the Supreme Administrative Court annulled the Vratsa Administrative Court's decision because they counted ballots in an illegally open bag. As a result of the double cancellation, the falsified decision becomes a fact. How is it that these fine texts that satisfy you happen to these things in Bulgaria? As for prepared manipulations, I categorically deviate that elderly people are deliberately slowing down to fake elections. I will remind you of what the former mayor of Plovdiv will tell you in detail how the prominent party functionary instructs a whole cohort of people to fake the elections. Do you remember Totev's face in Plovdiv? Do you remember the briefing on how to fake the election in detail? GERB's thesis is untenable. It gives me reason to think, Mr. Kirilov, that you are preparing to fake the next election again, but with this policy that you are leading, it will not help you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bojinov, I deliberately abstained to save parliamentary time, to enter into a specific description of the controversial process when appealing election results. However, colleagues, including from the left, who took part in electoral cases, know well what kind of inspection the court is carrying out. Each dispute shall begin by questioning the authenticity of the document. This is a special procedure developed in the Civil Procedure Code, which is applied procedurally most often in these cases. In this proof, Mr. Bozhinov, the authenticity or authenticity of the particular document is established. If he is untrue, not only the country, but also the court can formally refer the prosecution to the proceedings accordingly. I don't know the specific case of the Bhutan election. [[The National Representative Georgi Bojinov spoke with MPs from BSP LB.]] I see you're not listening, and maybe there's no point in answering. I don't know the case in Bhutan, I don't know the specific decisions, but it's obvious that there was a judicial defense here that ended with a ruling from the Supreme Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. To speak, Mr. Valerie Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, the topic here does not specifically refer to whether there is a composition in the Election Code that allows the classification of such violations or does not have such a composition. We are currently discussing the practice of the electoral process in Bulgaria and discussing the possibility that what we have observed will end with the power of law. What we learn from our colleagues is that the law currently provides such opportunities. I would like to point out two specific examples. One I can even provide in writing a reply to the Haskovo District Prosecutor's Office of a signal of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, signed by the President of the Party and myself, on the occasion of broadcast television material documenting the recording of the minutes in front of the sections and after that, when they are transferred to the municipal election commission. In response to the District Prosecutor's Office, the following is reported: that the facts are as they are established; that the persons who carry out this are wanted, talked with them and questioned, but due to lack of composition the Prosecutor's Office will not form anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u85	Would you like an extension, Mr. Zablyanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u86	Yeah, I'd like an extension. Thank you. Second question. What Mr. Kirilov said here, should it be clarified is there a composition that allows, or does it not have a composition? If there is, then why did the Haskovo District Attorney respond this way to our signal? The other question, the Varna Administrative Court came up with a decision on the regularity of the minutes after having found that all signatures in the minutes were false, with the assumption that after the signatures placed below were false, it was counted as having no signatures and the protocol was recognised as valid. We open the door to a chaos in the electoral process, where neither political parties nor the judiciary can bring any order when we do not set the parameters for it. I therefore propose to introduce an additional composition into the Criminal Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u88	Mr President, honourable Members, without getting into the essence of law, since I do not believe that I am sufficiently competent in this area, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that I think that there is no person in this House who does not recognise that there are problems with the protocols. There are problems, and if the legislation in force were really so effective and had the opportunity to place the relevant offenders in their place, we probably wouldn't need to make such a proposal. But you see that with every choice always, in almost all electoral committees and sections there are problems with the protocols with spellings, with additions, signatures, forged signatures. I don't want to go into the examples that colleagues have set so far. In this regard, we are proposing not something that is the discovery of the bicycle, but we really want, when there is counterfeiting of protocols, when in document crimes the minutes of election committees are inserted with data on election results, as we have written it, according to art. 38, para. 2, really putting a preventative control over the behavior of people who think deeply about whether a forged signature, a falsified protocol will cost 8 years in prison. I would also like to draw your attention to another one of these protocols, in my opinion, of public importance, are greater than, let's say, a notary act. The notary act is an extremely important thing as described in the relevant paragraph of Article, but it concerns, above all, the interest of a individual. We are trying here, with our proposal, to protect the public interest, something that is extremely important and something that we have long struggled for all the elections to be really fair, the elections to be transparent, the results to respond to the will of the population, and not to be some technology manipulated, which, after that, even if the court does not have the legal basis to take the necessary measures, even in case of proven counterfeits. I ask you very much to support this proposal, because with this we will give a clear sign to our constituents, to all the voters, to all the parliamentary groups, that we are fighting for honesty in the elections and that we want those who allow dishonesty that allow unlawful action to suffer their punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I close the debates and put to the vote a bill supplementing the Penal Code, No 554-01-176, submitted by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs on 12 November 2015. Please vote. They voted 94 MPs: 49, against 13, abstention 32. Here you go, Mr. Popov, a lot of people didn't really get a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u90	Yeah, really. You can see it from the dashboard. I'm doing a re-voting procedure. Here in this House, I did not hear a reverse opinion as to the fact that the last elections or there was a guilty silence, there was no reverse opinion that the last elections in most of the minutes were falsified. Therefore, all colleagues from the Patriotic Front, Reformist Block, ABB, GERB, BDZ, we are here, DPS, support the proposal, because this is really a test of how the National Assembly looks at such crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u91	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Revoting procedure. They voted 106 MPs: 52, against 12, abstention 42. The bill hasn't been passed. We move on to the next item on the agenda, and it is: PROJECTS FOR DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING DELEGATIONS OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. They were imported by MP Chetin Kazak on 29 January this year. Will someone from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms read the decisions, or should I read them? [[Reply from DPS: "Yes, read them. "]] I'll introduce you to the solutions. The first draft decision: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Lutvi Ahmed Mestan as the main member of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. 2. He elected Mustafa Sali Karaday as the main member of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I am closing the debates and voting on the draft decision I just introduced you to. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: 72 against 1, abstention 14. The decision's been made. The second draft decision: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Mustafa Sali Karaday as the main representative of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. 2. Releases Hamid Barry Hamid as the replacement representative of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and elects him as the main representative of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. 3. He elected Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov as the replacement representative of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I am voting on the draft decision I just presented to you. Please vote. They voted 91 MPs: 84, none, abstention 7. The decision's been made. We move on to the next item on the agenda, and it is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ANIMAL TREATMENT. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2015. Adopted at first vote on 26 November 2015. Yesterday we started his second vote. We have adopted the 21st paragraph, which becomes § 33 in the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u92	Under § 22, there is a proposal of the MP Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. There is a proposal from the MP Ivan Stankov: In § 22 concerning Art. 139b-139e the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 1, t. 2 the words "withdrawal of the animals for the benefit of the State and for directing them to slaughter in a slaughterhouse' shall be replaced by the application of a cash penalty of an amount determined by the species, breed and selection level'; (b) paragraph 2, t. I'm out. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139d, para. 1 after the words at the expense of the budget of BABBH is added to which a special fund of zoos is created. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 139d, para. 2 after the words are headed for a sanitary slaughter... in a designated slaughterhouse.................................................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Hristov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer for § 22 but because it does not correspond to art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 833 implementing the Law on Legislative Acts proposes to be formed in new § 34-37: ................. Article 139b is amended as follows: Art. 139b. (1) In the event of the detection of infringements under art. 139 para. 1, t. 3 and 3a identified in animals from which raw materials and foodstuffs are derived, official veterinarians shall carry out a check for official identification and for the implementation of the measures provided for in the Programme for the Prevention, Supervision, Control and Elimination of Animal Diseases, and a clinical examination of the animals and shall immediately notify the Director of the OBSC in writing, which, depending on the results of the examination and the examination: 1. issue an order on a model for the withdrawal of animals in favour of the State, killing them on site and directing them to dispose of animals in an establishment or plant for the disposal of animal by-products, in the absence of official identification and/or non-compliance of the measures provided for in the programme for the prevention, surveillance, control and eradication of animal diseases, and......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 139a, para. 1-4; 2. issue an order on a model for the withdrawal of animals for the benefit of the State and for their disposal for slaughter in a slaughterhouse in case of official identification, in the implementation of the measures provided for in the Programme for the Prevention, Supervision, Control and Elimination of Animal Diseases, and the absence of deviations in the health status of the animals. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 The Director of the ODBH organizes: 1. the stay of the animals until they are transferred to food banking organisations or to institutions providing social services pursuant to art. 36, para. 1-3 of the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Social Assistance (prom., SG No. ...); 2. the notification of the organizations under point 2. 1 presented in the field within two hours of the issue of the order under para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. the provision of continuity data on the food chain for slaughter animals; 4. The free transfer of animals to an organisation under point 4. 1. (3) When up to 12 hours of notification under para. 2, p. 2 no representative of an organization under para. 2, p. 1, the Director of the ODBH shall take action under Article 1. 139a. (4) When it is established that the information under para. 2, p. 3 cannot be provided within 24 hours of the holding of the animals, the Director of ODBH shall take the action under art. 139a. (5) When issuing an order for the withdrawal of animals for the benefit of the State and for their direction for slaughter in a slaughterhouse, no animal movement certificate shall be issued. (6) The order under para. 1 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal does not stop the execution. § 35. Article 139c is amended as follows: Art. 139c. (1) A transmission protocol shall be drawn up for the transmission of the animals according to a model signed by a representative of the organisation under art. 139b, para. 2, p. 1 and the ODBH. (2) The organisation to which the animals are surrendered shall be obliged, within three days of their slaughter, to inform in writing the Director of ODBH, who has issued the order under art. 139b, para. 1, t. 2, when and in which slaughterhouse the slaughter was carried out and to whom the products derived from animals intended for human consumption were provided. § 36. Article 139d is amended as follows: Art. 139 C.E. (1) In the event of infringement under art. 139 para. 1, t. 10-16, depending on the type and severity of the infringement, shall be issued: 1. act implementing a measure under art. 131, para. the official veterinarian shall provide the information referred to in point (a) and (b) of paragraph 1 of this Article to the competent authority of the Member State where the veterinary 2. an order to terminate the activity of the establishment in the cases referred to in art. 139 para. 1, t. 15 by the director of the relevant ODBH. (2) When applying the measure under para. 1, t. 2 animals from the establishment shall be directed for slaughter. (3) The costs of slaughter under para. 2 is at the expense of the owner of the animals. (4) The acts under para. 1 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal does not stop the execution. § 37. Article 139e is amended as follows: Art. 139e. (1) The costs of disposal of the carcasses of the animals killed under art. 139a, the costs of art. 139b, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2, p. 1-3 and the costs of disposal of animal by-products obtained during the slaughter of animals shall be borne by the BABH budget. (2) The responsibility for the animals and the costs after their surrender shall be at the expense of the organisation to which they have been transferred. Proposal of the National Representative Petar Petrov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 38 and 39: ....................... 38........................................................... In Chapter 6, Section II is created art. 139f: Art. 139f. (1) In the cases referred to in art. 139b, para. 1 in the case of an equine animal with an injected electronic transponder within the meaning of Article 1. The Director of the relevant ODBH shall immediately submit a written request to the Mayor/Mayor of the locality for a period of 72 hours to the appropriate premises and after consultation with the Integrated Information System of BABBH, the owner of the animal shall inform the owner of its location. (2) For the surrender of the animal under para. 1 a transmission-acceptance protocol signed by the owner or an authorised person and a representative of the City Hall shall be drawn up. The owner or the person authorised by him shall transmit a copy of the transmission protocol to the registered veterinarian with whom a contract has been concluded under art. Art. 137a or art. 137b, which introduces it into the Integrated Information System of BABBH. (3) When within the term under para. 1 the owner or person authorised by him has not received the animal, the director of the ODBH shall issue an order under art. 139b, para. 1, t. 1. § 39. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 141, para. 1, t. 1 the words.................................................................... 120, para. The following The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u93	Let's stop here. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Professor. Stankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Yesterday I expressed my disagreement, and I will repeat again that killing animals without proof of their health status is a wrong decision. As a livestock specialist to whom I have devoted all my scientific and creative activities, I must tell you that I cannot accept at all one such proposal for the destruction of animals with an unidentified disease. Again, this painful theme of killing animals is being addressed. I continue to insist on what I said yesterday about the procedure, instead of immediate killing, I offer first warning to the owners, then imposing a penalty of money. After the penalty of money, if the owner continues not to carry out the orders, i.e. not to identify the animals and not to carry out the preventive activities, then the more severe punishment can already be applied, and it can be confiscated for the benefit of the State and we say: or destruction in the event of evidence deviations in the health status. In no case should we allow the destruction of healthy animals anyway they remained so few in Bulgaria. If yesterday was accepted my proposal, which I believe was working, this problem would have been dropped, but now it is standing with the same force again. Colleagues, understand, I do not want to not carry out the preventive activities.. We do not talk about the fact that we do not need to identify the animals. This should happen in any case, because the diseases start right there where there is no control. We know the cases of anthrax, brucellosis, parasitic diseases echinococcosis, and others. So these events must be carried out. Animals need to be identified, but the procedure is about this, it needs to be different, and we don't make much of a burden. We are talking about the need to have an intermediate monetary penalty and clarify the health status of animals. This is something important that I think should be borne in mind. Something else I'd like to say. Why depending on the species, breed and selection level? In the Commission, I pointed out the differences are large when it comes to sanctioning or stimulating. The same kind of asaf breed, which is a very loud breed of sheep. It gives 300 liters of milk, the Karakachan 30 liters of milk and has twice the live weight. Will the penalty and incentive be the same? So there has to be a difference. So I suggest depending on the color, the breed and the selection level. Another thing that is disturbing the transmission of animals that have already been destroyed, for food banking or for institutions providing social services. My fellow Members, I cannot accept this at all. I've suggested that this be dismissed because it's in complete conflict with the idea of killing. Moreover, these institutions are the most vulnerable groups that provide social services. The next thing that I think is important and should be borne in mind the proposal for the creation of the "Zoop" Fund. Over 100 years there has been such a fund. In 1999, this fund was closed, and it is extremely important. The imagination that was expressed in the Committee on Agriculture is the only one that the Ministry of Finance will be against this. Well, should the Ministry of Finance stop something so important and secure one such fund that can always help farmers, farmers and livestock farmers? One more thing I think I should say in conclusion. I very much hope... This is what I would like to propose: the.Zoop.. to vote separately, Mr. President, because this is something extremely important and I very much hope that there will be support here. Honourable Members, these extremely important activities concerning animal and human health, food safety must tell you that they are overwhelmed with problems. The biggest problem is that in veterinary medicine there are two organizations of private practitioners and the state who are in constant conflict. The thing that needs to happen immediately is, as has been done in human medicine, a single law for the word organization. Then the problems will be solved and then there will be implementation of the prevention program. And the other: a big mistake was the destruction of the National Health Service, the National Health Medical Service. It must be restored in some way within the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. These are very important problems that need to be solved, and not as yesterday's proposal that we should almost not agree to veterinary clinics to receive their own status because they will be competitors of others. There must be competition, because when there is competition, there will be development. So these are my suggestions. I appeal with a great request to colleagues from GERB: to support this proposal because we do not put anything different into it. Only one interim payment, one warning that can prevent the destruction of animals. So please understand, please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u95	Just to ask you: what did you propose to vote separately?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u96	Second item to be voted separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u97	Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to point out to you that this is the third case in which we do not have a procedure regarding how we should proceed in the event of a breach of the requirements of art. 139, which is written in detail in the Law. So we impose the severest penalty on farmers, and this is the destruction of animals. The proposal made by Prof. Stankov, it is appropriate from the point of view that there should be steps in this direction to create an opportunity for correction. Because by destroying an animal, we are basically creating conditions for this farm to be put in a situation of bankruptcy. Article 139b, in which a killing procedure is proposed again now and immediately with a commission, note that this is envisaged in the transport of animals without veterinary certificates. Well, isn't there a situation where we can determine whether these animals are registered in the system, as we do for the category of horses that are extremely high in value and then move on to killing these animals? At the same time, however, when it comes to art. 139d, para. One point and 12, we say we will make a prescription when the ban on the slaughter of sick anthrax and rabies animals is violated. So then we'll make a prescription, after the prescription we'll have a fine and we can stop the activity of the establishment, but during that time the animals can be eaten accordingly, as they did with anthrax and all over the chain of commerce, these animals can be carried along with the skins. The proposals being made are inadequate in terms of sanctions, which are also imposed by the burden. Therefore, for all the sanctions that are being taken into account here, make a single procedure, accept the proposal to have a first prescription, and then respectively the most severe sanctions to which it is going. We support the proposal to create a special fund. I must tell you that Bulgaria, with its accession to the European Union in 2007, was obliged to have such a fund under European regulations. 2007, 2008 and 2009 in the budget of the National Veterinary Office was divided from 7 to 10 million. BGN, which had to solve precisely these problems, which we are now facing and each time we explain almost that we are giving a gift to farmers when we compensate them, as we will see in the proposals, these proposals must be reduced because the budget of the state does not endure. Please really pay attention to what we are doing with this Law We are destroying Bulgarian livestock and we are bankrupting Bulgarian farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u99	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. For a replica, the People's Representative Doncho Baxanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I would also like to make a line to Prof. Stankov, and Professor Stankov's. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u101	Only Mrs. Bachvarova...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u102	The fact that we do not harm farmers who raise animals, because the violations that are in practice show that these are the purchasers who move without the necessary veterinary medical documents and therefore they are the main offenders. That is why this Law must be stricter. I believe that we do not need to encourage intruders all the time. It is high time to take more curtsy measures and indeed, when it is heard in a village that the animal is really slaughtered for not having the necessary documents to reflect what events are carried out by animal treatment to be destroyed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Baxanov. Any other lines? I won't. Professor Bachvarova, will you take advantage of your right? Yeah. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u104	I'm sorry, there must be some misunderstanding. It's not the farmers' fault. The State preventive programme shall be implemented in November. The vets are gone. They're gone because there just isn't such a preventative program. The only good thing about the Law that is being proposed now is that the Programme should be with a three-year period, to be financed and not to establish such delays. You can't treat anthrax in August! You should treat it or have vaccines in March! From here on out, any prevention ends. That's why I'm saying it's not the farmers' fault. There are requirements from state veterinarians, a state preventive program that needs to be implemented. It started in February "March" each year, not in November, when it was all over for the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u105	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to make a reply to my colleague Stankov, but in order not to violate the regulations, I will make it in the form of a statement. And Mrs. Bachvarova is right about what she says, and you, Mr. Stankov, are right that there are serious contradictions between the two veterinary unions. What I would like to draw attention to is that with your proposal under art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 in art. 48l You probably accidentally put more pressure on him. Moreover, from now on, I will tell you that this text will be attacked in the Constitutional Court, because by formulating in this way para. 2, in fact, you violated a fundamental human right.. the right of any person to belong to any organization. You have recorded that those who perform this activity in the two higher education institutions, they are two, you know, not members of the Bulgarian Veterinary Union. I'm sorry I couldn't be there because of yesterday's circumstances. I was going to make a suggestion that it would be only supplemented that they might not be members. It is a violation of constitutional law to forbid anyone from being a member of anyone! That's what I'm saying! From then on, the pressure which already exists with the creation of practically a third group of non-members in either or the other union, but exercising such activity under the bosom of both universities... [[BSP LB.]] I hope you understand what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u107	Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ivan Stankov, made by the parliamentary tribune. His proposal is in § 22 t. 2 to be voted separately from points 1 and 3. They voted 83 MPs: 18, against 2, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on Ivan Stankov's proposal in its entirety, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 34 against 2, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 22 by importer, which, following support from the Commission and its proposal, has been converted into paragraphs 34 to 37 including, in accordance with its report, the proposal for the creation of new paragraphs 38 and 39 with a corresponding content on the Commission report, and § 23 by importer, which, following the Commission's support, becomes § 40 in its report. We are voting on paragraphs 34 to 40, including the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 82 against 7, abstention 3. Paragraphs 34 to 40, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u108	According to § 24 the proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal: "Paragraph 24 is amended as follows: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 144, para. 1 and the expression "supplied by the National Statistical Institute" is replaced by "supplied by the Agromarket Information System." Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 144 para. 1 is amended as (1) The compensation for animals shall be determined by: 1. a price per producer by animal species provided by the National Statistical Institute for the month preceding the occurrence of the disease, or 2. an assessment, including by nature and breed value, made by the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction in livestock farming for animals subject to the breeding programme approved by the Minister of Agriculture and Food or by a competent authority of another Member State.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u109	Statements? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Until now, animal-killing benefits where there are situations where insurance is not possible because these are diseases for which the State is responsible through the State Prevention Programme have been carried out at market prices. Now it is proposed to be at the prices of the manufacturer. I went to the trouble of taking out and looking at the methodology of the National Statistical Institute, which determines what the producer price is. This is a price that some slaughterhouses pass on to the Statistical Institute. Accordingly, the information to be received is based on information provided and not on information collected. The price per producer differs significantly from the market price. It is proposed that market prices be provided by the Agromarket Information System. This is a trading company with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which has been authorised since 2007 to provide information on prices to the European Commission. This means that there is a certain methodology and therefore it corresponds to the possibility that prices can be correct. If you refer to the latest producer price, which was last published by the September Statistics, if you have to compensate an animal, it will be first with a slaughter price. This means that a heifer will be compensated with a price of 1,400 leva. number of animals. At the same time, on the market for this heifer, such as selected or any other animal, the price starts from 2400 to 2800 BGN. If you have to import it from the Netherlands, Germany and so on, which is already a fact in Bulgaria, the price starts from 1500 euros up. Tell us how we help farmers and farmers in this way by paying them 50% of the value of what the animal is worth.! Because this animal is not for slaughter, it is for reproduction. Thus, the compensation must cover the costs of at least the acquisition of the animal. I ask you very much to reconsider this proposal. Here, Professor. Stankov gives a proposal for evaluation by the Executive Agency for Selection and Reproduction. What assessment can the Executive Agency make?! That the animal is a few pounds, it's well watched and so on! We're talking about a price here. This Agency can assess whether the animal is well-bred, whether it meets the characteristics of the breed. She can't tell what the price is. Provided that there has been a price collection system in place in the country since 1994, of actual market information, replacement with a producer price creates prerequisites for compensation to be indeed 50 percent of what has been carried out so far as the State's commitment to compensate farmers for emerging diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u111	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u112	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Bachvarova, honourable colleagues! The discussion was held in the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the arguments were presented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. I'm just gonna say a few words in the opposite direction, I'm gonna replicate you, Professor. Bachvarova. What's the idea? The idea is that those people who are dishonest owners and who for one reason or another do not raise their animals well enough do not receive the full amount of market value that you offer. You know very well that when animals are marketed, they prepare at least a month, a month and something, they feed additionally, they are quality, healthy. Not to mention the import of animals, as you say, from the Netherlands or from other countries, because it is really about elite animals. Here we try to distinguish the conscientious and unbeliefful owners, because otherwise it turns out that some farmers may not be conscientious owners, leave their animals in a very bad condition and receive a high price. In this sense, there is a balance between the need for compensation in the event of animal diseases and the need for................................................................................................... I think the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has been sufficiently justified and that they are right. Your proposal was therefore rejected in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u114	I think there's an absolute misunderstanding of what I'm saying, and what comes back to me as a line. It's about an environment where animals are destroyed. Look at the last case of Bluetongue, how many animals were destroyed! What's the farmer's fault? Then, under European law, the state must compensate farmers for the damage done or received! The blue tongue is not the farmer's fault! I'm not talking about cases where an animal is not properly looked at or destroyed for other reasons, outside the diseases of the State Prevention Program. If there is a State Prevention Program implemented on time, there are no diseases, there is no compensation for the farmers and they have their consequences. But in the blue language, you're telling me that you're going to compensate the farmers based on what the statistics give you at a 50% lower price?! This is a selected animal and should receive the payment that is put into it! These are animals that can be used for years. There is a misunderstanding on the matter, but benefits are made only in the case of an epizootic situation when the state has not done its job, has not limited the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, blue tongue, anthrax or anything. We are not talking about the general cases of insurance in this case. You can ask the insurance company about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u115	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Speech "spoken by the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think the text we are looking at, fellow Members, is extremely important. At the very least, we have bitter experience. It was not far away when Bulgarian livestock farmers survived the bluetongue epidemic, the foot-and-mouth disease, which practically ruined the livestock farming in Strandzha and left many livestock farmers undefended. She is right, Mrs. Bachvarova, that there should be fair compensation for farmers in this direction. However, I also think that the proposal of the importer approved by the Commission and your proposal are not sufficiently objective. Neither the CAD will give an assessment that can be compensated in maximum amount, not to say the full amount, which is the right breeder, especially when it comes to relevant breeds of animals. Here we should note that, for example, in cattle, there are animals that are carnivorous breeds such as Hereford, there is a different price, and, for example, a brown Rhodope cattle, which has a completely different price, but they are both breeded animals. Dear Mr. Chairman, so that we can adopt a text that is working and fair, I am making an editorial proposal in art. 144, para. 1, t. 2 "The Executive Agency for Selection and........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Because there you can best calculate the weighted average price and be as fair as possible. However, let us not forget that Bulgaria is a member of the European Union, and in this direction the European Union is far ahead of us, and we will be able to achieve a fair assessment of such epizootics as we have experienced in the last four years of foot-and-mouth disease, in blue language, not to list the others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Ms. Karayancheva, you won't have enough time, so we'll continue in the next session. It's 11.29. Rest until 12:00, when we will continue with parliamentary control under art. 104. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u118	Please, colleagues, let's borrow your seats. The sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. I remind you that each parliamentary group, in view of its numbers in this order, can ask up to two questions,... in this particular case, to the Deputy Prime Ministers. And we expect Mr. Kalfin, yes, he's in the room. The question is within 2 minutes, response from the respective Deputy Prime Minister... within 3 minutes, 2 minutes. for a line and up to two minutes. for the backdrop of the deputy prime ministers. First in this sequence is the Parliamentary Group of GERB. Any questions from GERB? I won't. Mr. Merdjanov will ask the first question from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is to Mrs. Bachvarova. Mrs. Bachvarova, in connection with the public procurement announced last week for a tender worth over half a billion BGN with VAT, my questions are several. We are all witnessing the chronic financial failure of the Ministry of Interior. This intention of the Ministry sounds quite scandalous after it becomes clear that the requirements of the order are both the acquisition of hardware, software and the construction of a new enterprise for the production of new personal documents, which will contain a chip, of course, of Bulgarian citizens. It is also clear that the system it will produce from a decentralised system will become practically a centralized system, which will further hinder Bulgarian citizens. In this regard, there are at least two questions: how much will the personal data of Bulgarian citizens be protected, given the information about the appetites of foreign companies for access to them, such as in the production of fingerprints, as has been spoken recently in the field of health? Secondly, is this financial expenditure absolutely necessary, spectacular expenditure, against the backdrop of the entire budget of the Ministry, given the cuts in social benefits, wage cuts and a number of other financial needs that accompany the work and operation of the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u120	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Merdjanov, several statements in your question that do not comply with the truth, there is indeed such an order and there is a solution to move from decentralised to centralized personalization system. This is the modern model that other countries are working on. This is one of the arguments to move on to this model. The second is that it greatly reduces the cost of personalization equipment from thirty such points to one. In the end, it turns out to be much more effective as a comprehensive system. By introducing the electronic identification of Bulgarian citizens, yes, we plan to build one such centre to ensure the protection of these data and I can tell you that the cost of building such a centre is 0.82% of the total value of the announced order. It will be built, it will be a relatively simpler facility, but it will allow one place to collect all the equipment, it will be on a plot that owns the Ministry of Interior, and will ultimately not represent excessive expenditure. The estimated indicative amount given for the contract is 480 million. lv. without VAT. Please note, hopefully, that the Bulgarian citizens understand that it is 11 years of expenditure ahead, that is, about 40 million per year, which will be covered by the fees for issuing the new documents. Our readings show that this will enable us not to increase the price that citizens will pay, although in the document itself there will be a lot more protections and more opportunities available to the Bulgarian citizens, the electronic identity, and the call system, and the biometrics. Part of this project will also be financed by European funds under the Operational Programme. Within the period following the notice, I have entrusted the Commission, which has developed the documentation, to seek further opportunities to reduce expenditure. Note that the main model by which the value of this project is calculated is related to one design in the next 11 years [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Our efforts are going beyond the centralised model and its benefits to look for other options to reduce value.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The line, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u123	Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, you understand that 500 million with VAT of 580 million, albeit for 11 years, for toning IDs, this is a perfect luxury. It is unlikely that the employees of the Ministry of Interior can accept this as something normal in the activities of the office itself. I'm sorry, but with this chronic shortage of funds! You say you will use the operational programs. Well, why don't we use the funds from the operational programs for other so-called activities at the Ministry of Interior? I believe that this is one of the big problems of the Ministry you run because it is not prioritized in the best, in the most optimal way, the activities of this office. In addition, would you indicate in which other countries this similar practice has been introduced? How is it embedded? How much will be the price of each personal document? After all, Bulgarian citizens will pay the price. Bulgarian citizens! In addition, 20% will be the amount provided by the State for the launch of all the procurement activities. Not to mention that the whole process will be accompanied by endless appeals, intertwined with interests, but the most important thing is guaranteeing the security of Bulgarian personal data, because speculation and the need for reliable protection cannot in any way be guaranteed by you or by the government at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u124	A hole, Mrs. Bachvarova?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u125	Mr. Merdjanov, I explicitly stressed that our estimates and plans are not to increase the price for the service for obtaining personal documents. They won't be tuned, they'll be new. There is a difference in this, and this is the policy of each country for the renewal of these documents and for the sake of security. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] At this moment when we announce the initiation of this procedure, you ask me about the guarantees, I think it is very serious, because I see no reason for any institution, any ministry to give up such guarantees. It's part of our basic policy. We do our best to provide this service with a good quality and the price that will not be exceeded. These are our efforts, and I have therefore told you for a reason that I have also ordered an additional analysis within the two-week legal period to see what the additional options are. I would like to tell all Bulgarian citizens that we are doing our best to have a really good service. As far as funds are concerned at the Ministry of Interior, I declare that all possible means by all possible sources are currently under our control and surveillance. We're planning these funds. One of the directions in which I will reform the Ministry of Interior is in the single management of these funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u126	There is a question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Imamov will develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u127	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Our question addressed to Mrs. Bachvarova is this. It is known to everyone that in recent days the situation at border crossings with Greece has become significantly complicated. Multiple vehicles form mileage tails on both sides of the border. Carriers and the Bulgarian economy are making huge losses. It is no secret that the winter protests of Greek farmers are not a single phenomenon at our border and happen almost every year. Of course, it is not our job to interfere in the labour disputes in our neighbouring country, but it is our job to intervene when it comes to huge losses that are piling up and affecting the Bulgarian economy on a daily basis these days. Our question is: what measures does the government take to solve the problems at the Bulgarian-Greek border urgently?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u128	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u129	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Imamov! The problem is serious, as are the damage our carriers are suffering. We work in two directions: the first one is organizational, that is, we have created such an organization that in much deeper within the territory of the country we have the opportunity to have quite operational, depending on how the situation is developing on Greek territory, to have the opportunity to redirect to other points of Bulgarian cars. These efforts are made from the moment there is prior information that there will be such a protest. We have established such an organization and constantly monitor the situation at the border with Greece. The other main direction is the diplomatic direction. There's effort there too. I personally had talks with the Greek Interior Minister, the prime minister held such a conversation with Prime Minister Tsipras, the foreign minister, as far as I know, in connection with the Greek authorities. They assure us that they will do everything they can to prevent this process from growing, but these are processes in Greece that we cannot influence. Apparently, the government there is having a hard time dealing with this problem. This part of the agricultural workers who block our border in practice do not have a syndicate, that is, there is no one to hold official negotiations with. Literally every minute we monitor the development of the situation and assess how to act in the interests of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u130	The line, Mr. Imamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u131	Mrs. Bachvarova, I don't know what rerouting you're talking about after all the border crossings are blocked with Greece. Something worse is not clear when individual border crossings will be released. From what we receive as information from the media, there is no information or information about how the protesters will act on the other side. It would be good for these drivers, for these carriers to be aware at this stage of what are the chances of the border being opened within an approximate period of time and normalising the movement so that they can carry out their orders and tasks pursued by these carriers. In addition, you did not mention whether you would engage the European Union and whether this could in any way lead to the urgent solution of this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u132	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u133	Mr. Imamov, you're asking questions to which, I suppose, the Greek authorities want answers. We have the assurance that if they have that answer, we will have it. I can assure you that we are really doing what we are able to do, diplomatic capabilities, including in Brussels. Efforts on a broad political line are here, we have the Foreign Minister and I and the Prime Minister, but unfortunately, as I have told you, there is no way we can obtain objective information on these very issues that you are putting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u134	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block, a question will be asked by Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Minister Kalfin. I assume you're aware that people from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy are involved in a working group, or at least that is my knowledge, they should be involved in a working group to draw up a law on child justice. Currently, in Bulgaria there is a Law to combat the anti-social manifestations of minors, which is from 1958. The provisions concerning anti-social acts of children, minors, are quite fragmented and the purpose of the new law is to codify this area of law. Statistics show that 51.5% of the crimes are committed by individuals between 14 and 30 years of age. Many of these people are children, I mean exactly underage and underage, and research and analysis shows that many of the reasons that lead to crimes are social inequality, social exclusion and the poor social conditions in which these young people and children live. In this regard, I would like to ask you: what are the views of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the activity in this area, as it, together with the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, and education, is a major part of the fight against this phenomenon? What are the measures taken? Is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy a public position regarding the question: in what direction will the reform move? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u136	For an answer, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Delchev, the question you are asking is important and is one of those on the agenda right now in the legislative work of the government. There is one working group, but when the Minister of Justice changes, the team at the Ministry of Justice has been retained, so I think there will be no delay in the change in this ministry. They're leading. The idea is that children who are currently placed in institutions after admitting any violation of public order should be redirected to the sense that the institutions currently in place should be closed and another kind of care for children should be taken. Here is the continuation of the work of the task force. So far, we have no differences with the various departments. The question is, we need to know where these kids are going. One of the most dangerous things is that they return to the same environment that they had previously come out of, made these violations, and continued to live the same way without having oversight of their actions. With colleagues at the Ministry of Justice, we are in the process of discussing in what best way, after a child returns to the family or community, this regular supervision and control over his development, participation in school and so on can be carried out. We'll find answers to these questions. The bill will be of your attention in the National Assembly as soon as possible. This is one of the priority regulations we are currently working on. I hope that, together with you and everyone interested, we can discuss what is best for these children, so that by leaving the closed institutions, they enjoy sufficient care and guidance to avoid repeating the illegal actions they have committed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u138	The line, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u139	Thanks for the answer. In fact, the main issue, which has been repeatedly put to meetings and meetings of working groups, is that the link between institutions is lost. Once the child falls under the custody of the Ministry of Education, i.e. the SPI and VUI, it's as if the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy stopped watching this child, and vice versa, after he got out of there, who took over? [[The national representatives of the DPS Parliamentary Group are leaving the House.]] Do you see the leading role of the Ministry in this process, in the process of building and introducing the children and young people of Bulgaria who have had some events in their past in the Bulgarian society? What will happen to those who leave the house? What's your position? What are you defending at working group meetings on behalf of the Ministry?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u140	It's a hole, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u141	Thank you, Madam President. The position we are defending is that social services, as they work, do not have an opportunity. They are engaged in social work, not in the services that a child who has committed a violation should receive. In the toolkit of social activity there is no such tool that can be applied in this sense. That is why we are here discussing how to create a mechanism. If the family is socially weak, but it is not necessarily a socially weak family, if the social services know it, the work of the different institutions should be coordinated. There are different ideas. They cannot be concentrated in the activities of social assistance. This is not social assistance according to the nature of social assistance. There's experience in different countries. There are different institutions. In our country some were known as pedagogical rooms. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior should also be committed to these issues. The child who returns should then be monitored, but not from the point of view of the social worker who appreciates the property condition and the way and the lifestyle of the people. We need to find a commitment of more institutions. It's hardly social activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u142	On behalf of the Patriotic Front, there are no questions. On behalf of the BDZ Parliamentary Group, please come in, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u143	Honourable Chairman, Honorable Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Mrs. Kuneva. The latest Euro report on Bulgaria on the cooperation and verification mechanism reported both progress in the judiciary and criticism. The European Commission has issued a number of recommendations to the Bulgarian authorities, such as the adoption of a new anti-corruption law, including the establishment of a body to combat corruption on the high levels of power, reform of the Supreme Judicial Council through amendments to the Judicial Authority Act, conducting an independent audit of the prosecution, as provided for in the Judicial Reform Strategy and others. In this regard, I ask you to answer me what are the first measures that the government will take in relation to these recommendations, and how long will they be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u144	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. Mrs. Kuneva, we are waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u145	Thanks for asking. The first steps that the government will take are important, all the more so that they engage Parliament to a large extent, because there are a large number of legislative acts that will pass through you. After the political consultations, let me first tell you about what you asked about the anti-corruption bill is ready. I'll send it to the parliamentary groups. I am ready to discuss the basics in advance, even before its entry into the Council of Ministers. We also held a Civil Council on Anti-Corruption. Next week we'll see it at the National Anti-Corruption Council. As written in the report, the anti-corruption law is a key test for the fight against corruption and Bulgaria's progress. With regard to the cooperation and evaluation mechanism, the report largely reflects the opinion of both Bulgarian society and our expectations. Each of the authorities must recognise their responsibility. For years, criticism has been the same. This year we can make a decisive breakthrough with regard to the judiciary after the changes in the Constitution, in anticorruption legislation, and in the matter which is in the work of Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova. The positive features in the report are that our strategies have been taken into account in both anti-corruption and the judiciary. Today, the government has adopted the legislative plan for the next six months, in which you will see that everything related to the judiciary, the Ministry of Interior and Anti-Corruption is to the greatest extent priority and readiness. With regard to the judiciary, the Minister of Justice is ready until the end of March, as under the Constitution, to submit all the necessary acts so that the texts on the division of the Supreme Judicial Council can be sealed, but also in a much wider area related to the development of criminal policy, e-Justice and so on. With regard to the Ministry of Interior, I would like to say in the presence of Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova that there are good things said in the report about the effective functioning not only of the DGBOP, but also of all police structures involved in the fight against crime, especially with organised crime and corruption. Smuggling is the lowest level in years. As you know, in 2015, the illegal cigarette market was shrunk to the lowest levels in eight years. You asked the question of the independent external assessment of the prosecution. Let's just say that the report does not say an international independent assessment. Thank you for being correct. On a proposal from Minister Zaharieva on the Ministry's website, it is explicitly stated that an assessment should be made within the framework of the mechanism with European experts. Yes, the prosecution itself issued an opinion on greater decentralisation and more parliamentary control at the end of 2014. Such an independent assessment will therefore be requested within the framework of the Strategy and within the framework of the Cooperation Mechanism. I hope that the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office will be able to make the most of this opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u146	The line, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, yes, there are indeed positive things in the report, such as commendation for DGBOP. It is imperative that the measures be taken as soon as possible, as you said, that by March they will be taken for the Supreme Judicial Council by the Justice Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva. The European Commission's recommendations will help reform the judiciary. Of course, we must not stop here, steps must also be taken towards a fair trial, which we do not see in judicial reform so far. So we'll have to get to work quickly, not just demagogize. So thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u148	A hole? You won't use it. A question from the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka (Attack), Ms. Tasheva will develop the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u149	The parliamentary group of the party "Attack" has a question for Mr. Tomislav Donchev as Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Policy. Mr. Donchev, please inform us at what stage is the arbitrage case under the request of the Atomstroyexport............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We periodically ask that question. At the end of 2014, a representative of your government said that there would be a solution by the end of 2015. The end of 2015 has passed, please inform us what is going on in the arbitration case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u150	For an answer, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs Tasheva! However, it is appropriate to clarify that any time parameters are beyond the control of the Bulgarian government. It's very difficult for me to make a commitment, the execution of which depends on someone else. Specifically, your question: according to the information I have, a solution is expected in the nearest four months maximum.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u152	A line, Mrs. Tasheva? You don't have a line. Mr. Kadyev, please come in from ABB's group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members, a number of disasters and accidents have occurred in Bulgaria over the last ten-fifteen years. All of this, of course, is from people's minds and hands, and I am referring to the fact that we failed to preserve the forest, which in fact kept from happening floods and other disasters and accidents, which I will not now refer to, but were numerous. My question is: what is the policy of the government at the moment for prevention of these disasters and concerns at least to reduce them because we know that against nature is very difficult to overcome. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u154	Colleagues, I ask for more silence in this room! You don't hear colleagues asking questions. Mr. Donchev will answer Mr. Kadyev's question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u155	With the possibility of being complemented by Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova, in so far as the answer to the question implies mixed competences, the question is absolutely adequate, I would not say, timely. What concerns me is that the current parliamentary procedure is too limited as time for it to be developed in depth. It is an indisputable fact that in the last ten or fifteen years in different regions of the country we are facing disasters of a different type of some of them, I take the liberty of pointing out, unknown if climate change is due to human error, but as a volume of downfalls, as a volume of water, we have record indicators. Some of the disasters are due to them. The theme of what part of the funds that are separated from different sources is the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance, State Budget, Municipal Budgets, Operational Programs here and the Operational Programme What is the balance between measures relating to overcoming the effects of disasters and measures put into prevention is an issue to which no definitive response has been found in the years back. Unfortunately, we're usually in a very bad algorithm. A disaster arises, we set aside, as far as possible, means of overcoming the damage from it, which does not allow more means of prevention to be allocated. The government's long-term policy is precisely in the direction of finding both the budgetary mechanism and the regulatory basis and at the level of operational work of all institutions to devote more resources to prevention for several reasons. Firstly, it is precisely the means put into prevention that provide more secure guarantees for people's lives and health and, secondly, the purely economic point of view, such an approach is cheaper. One supplement: except as a volume of money for investments made, it is appropriate to consider, in particular, the management risk of water and flooding, some of the construction standards not only related to water basin risk management, but, including urbanised areas, given the change in the type of deterioration that we have in recent years. A huge part of the infrastructure in Bulgaria is made according to regulations and regulations that suggest a completely different regime of downfalls. It is much slower, for much longer periods of time. At the moment, in recent years we have witnessed a completely different mode of action, short in time, with huge flow rates of downfalls, which is, for example, an occasion to rethink the entire dimensioning of the rainy reception facilities and drainage facilities in the urbanised territories. This is an integral issue which I hope, with you and your colleagues, we have occasion to develop in the smallest detail the coming weeks and months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u156	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Donchev. I think you made a good assessment at the moment of what's in stock and what might happen. I just want to say that the citizens of Bulgaria expect security not as much benefits as security. This is what they most care about, because these actions will continue to happen. We are placed in these conditions, they can't not happen. So pay more attention to prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u158	A hole? You won't use it. On behalf of the independent MPs, Mr. Velizar Enchev will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u159	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Mr. Kalfin. Mr. Kalfin, a week ago Prime Minister Borisov announced that he has entrusted the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov to provide 50 million. lv. for Easter supplements for Bulgarian pensioners. My question to you is this: why is it that you were the last to learn about this, as you admitted on a television show, in particular, you learned from the media, and I quote your words, Mr. Kalfin? Is this how decisions are made in the Council of Ministers on such important issues as Easter or Christmas supplements? Is there a collective approach to the work of the Council of Ministers, or are they taking the sole, as I said just now, the decisions that are too much like a dictatorship.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u160	For an answer, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Enchev, I want to reassure you that decisions in the Council of Ministers are taken collectively. The decision on supplements to Easter pensions is not yet available, but there is an understanding that is common in the government, and not for this Easter, but since the government has drawn up that a budgetary priority is to allocate additional funds to people with the lowest incomes, which we have already done three times on the occasion of Easter and Christmas holidays. This understanding is there. In order to make such a decision in the Council of Ministers, of course, it is taken for a reason shortly before these supplements are paid out, it depends on the degree of implementation of the budget, as such funds are not provided for in the state budget. They're from overexecuting the state budget. The Prime Minister's opinion came from the media, from Burgas, but I am not surprised by it, as this is the opinion of the government. When a decision is to be made, it will be made in the Council of Ministers and immediately the public will be informed. For January, we have good data on revenue in the budget. Looking at how it ended last year, I think we could be optimistic, but I personally, before we had the green light from the finance minister, couldn't give you any more details about how much money would be distributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u162	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u163	Mr. Kalfin, I take occasion from your words, and from the words of the Prime Minister, who admitted that this year's January compared to last year's January, the proceeds from the fight against smuggling are somewhere around 900 million. lv. In this situation, is the Council of Ministers considering the possibility, instead of giving Easter and Christmas supplements, which is a donation at that point, I would say, socially not fair, since there is a limit to the receipt of these supplements, shouldn't you consider the possibility that instead of giving such social donations to raise the pension base and the increase from 1 July 2016 be not 2.5, but 5%, since, as the Prime Minister said, and you have admitted now, the proceeds from the smuggling are quite serious. At 900 million. lv. more compared to January last year is not this topic, which should immediately lead to a decision to raise the basis of the pensions of all Bulgarian pensioners without exception, as at present such division to 300-310 BGN. Putting the rest of the pensioners in an extremely unfair position? Of course, I do not include pensioners with the highest pensions, the so-called padding of the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u164	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Enchev, what you are proposing would be extremely appropriate if pensions were not a long-term commitment by the insurance system and the state, in so far as it subsidises a large part of the pension payments, which a long-term commitment cannot be made on the basis of the one-month revenue result. Yes, in January, the revenues are very good. There are also objective prerequisites for this thing. The fact is that at the end of last year there were additional funds, different projects were completed, there are collection rates and VAT, there is an increase and improvement of customs work, but this is for January. Making a commitment to a lasting and not a one-time increase in pension means that the state is really sure that this resource will be able to be raised every month in order to be able to promise it to the pensioners. So then, when we see permanently that the budget is capable of additional and substantial increases in pensions, then he could raise the question. For now, the projected increase is to be linked to the so-called Swiss rule, which reflects inflation and the growth of the economy in the last year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u166	We're moving on to the second round of questions. On behalf of GERB? No questions asked. From BSP left Bulgaria.. Ms. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev and it concerns the financial policy of the government. Mr. Donchev, this majority in parliament voted the government if necessary to withdraw 16 billion. lv. a loan within the 4-year management period. If necessary! My question is what is the need for the government to make a new 200 million loan at the beginning of 2016 for January. BGN, and for February of 300 million. lv.? We feel that there is no such need and I want to argue, asking you why you do it? Prime Minister Borisov announced 900 million. lv. extra only for January. In addition, at the end of December a report of the business organizations in Bulgaria came out, which found that for 2015, despite those collected in more revenue, there is no growth in the economy. One percent of this money does not come from growth in the economy. Yesterday came out the Report of the National Statistical Institute, which says about the economy: "Instability, lack of normal competition, business is skeptical about the future this year. So this money you're collecting, and this debt you're taking, in no way stimulates the economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u168	That's not true! That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u169	I refer to the people who make the economy, not the political assessment. Second of all, income. Does this money and this loan somehow affect the standard of living? Well, no! The National Statistical Institute gives that consumption is falling, the standard of living is also rising, prices are rising, incomes, as you know, in the main part of the social, are frozen. That is, those in more revenue and the new debt do not improve the lives of the Bulgarians. That money's not on reserve either. The reserve from September last year from 13 is now 11-10 billion. What is happening, Mr. Donchev with the finances of the state? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Why do you continue to increase debt when you yourself say that you have more revenue and these two conflict and fight? Secondly, do you think, although very early, do you still accept the thought of updating Budget 2016? Let's record these in more revenue on the revenue side and here's this room to decide how they are to be allocated through expenditure. At least unfreeze the social payments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u170	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Ninova, you have asked me so many questions that I am afraid that a one-hour debate by the Budget Committee would not be enough to shed light on all of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u172	Three minutes, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u173	In addition, you tempted me with a multitude of inaccurate or false findings to enter the role and disprove you. The questions first. It is absolutely not serious at this stage at the beginning of the year to raise the topic of budget update. Absolutely not serious! With regard to 2016 not so much as budget, but as economic parameters we have reasons for optimism, but also there are a number of risks that we keep in mind, so this topic is currently not being opened. I don't know how you managed to get into a macro-frame, the ceiling where the government can have, if necessary, new debt for years to come, short-term emissions that are linked to the need to secure cash resources for short periods, as was the efforts of the Ministry of Finance at the beginning of this year?! As for your findings, according to a number of leading economists for 2015 compared to 2014 Bulgaria's debt as a net figure decreases and there are a number of reasons for this. You understand that the economy is not an exact science, at least not in the full sense of the word, and we can often see opposite assessments, but only a few days ago similar calculations came out. Let's get back to a fundamental question. When we talk about revenue, they're not abstract. They are directly related to expenditure. When more revenue is collected, they make more expenses. When the government uses a loan resource, it also means expenses. As far as there's no economic logic for anyone to take credit and hold the money without it bearing value.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u174	That's what I'm asking you: where are the expenses?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u175	All funds are invested in government policies in all spheres and sectors, including in the social sphere, of course, not only in it. I would like to make one remark: do not make a direct connection between government revenues, expenses and people's incomes! God forbid that there should be a smaller connection between the two, since the relationship between public revenues and expenditures and people's incomes is only through social systems.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u176	Line, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u177	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister not only did he not answer me, he gave a lecture which does not correspond to the truth and is not even worthy of a freshman year at the UNWE. [[Comments from GERB: "Eee."]] I'm starting one by one of what you said. I've made incorrect findings. The National Statistical Institute is the organization in Bulgaria that gives assessments and findings, and I quote them. Yesterday Mrs. Tsacheva announced that the report is in the Ministry of Industry, you can meet, see what she says about the economy of the country. Let's not confuse the 16 billion-dollar macroframe with short-term emissions. Well, short-terms are part of this big framework that we've voted on. You cannot go outside it with any other emissions that are different from those 16 billion, that is, your 200 from January and the 300 from February, are part of the macrogram that this majority has allowed you. The debt in 2015 falls compared to 2014; I ask you: what happens to the finances of the state in 2016? You didn't answer that. Revenue is not abstract, and more revenue leads to more costs, and that is what I am asking you: where are these costs, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? The budget has fixed 100 BGN. Revenues 100 BGN expenses. You say that you currently have 900 million in more than 100 leva. revenue. I'm asking you, where did that 900 million go? lv. in excess of the cost? I didn't get an answer to that. The revenues and expenses of the state were not related to the income of the people. This is a new version of Mrs. Stoyanova's statement during the budget: Mrs. Donchev said in a more modern way. Do not expect people in Bulgaria, through the country, through its revenues and expenses, to feel something in your pocket or improve your living standard. That's what he said in such a very special fashionable way. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We argue that the state can and must make a policy through the budget. I'm giving specific examples. Mr. Donchev, the cost of raising funds for children with disabilities is state policy and helps mothers and fathers who have children with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u179	Spending money for the energy weak, now that you have raised the price of electricity, is a state policy to help people's incomes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u180	Mrs. Ninova, Friday is a day for declarations on this subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u181	The claim that the revenues and expenses of the state have no bearing on people's income is deeply false and politically manipulative.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u182	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u183	I didn't understand what was going on with the state's finances, but I'm going to take advantage of your remark to provoke debates on this issue after you said it would take at least two hours for us to learn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u184	One, don't lie!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u185	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u186	Dear Mrs. Ninova, I like even the emotional debate in which sharp lines are used, but I don't like the debate, especially when it comes to a serious person like you when they use untruths.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u187	No qualifications, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u188	I said: Untruths. It's nothing offensive and there's no emotional angle. That's the first one. Secondly, thank you for taking the role of my interpreter, translator, interpreter, interpreter, but I never said anything like that. What I said is that the relationship between people's income and public spending is mainly in the social sphere.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u189	Is minimum wage a social sphere?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u190	As far as anything beyond this is the real economy, which is not under the direct control of the state. Last, given your comment earlier, that growth was expected to be zero for 2015. Do you want to bet on something when the final data of the NSI for 2015 comes out if the growth is above 2%? [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] Since you replicated me from a place, maybe now you can tell me if you want to bet on something.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u191	There's no such procedural possibility. [[Laughter]] A question from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms Mr. Anastasov will take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u192	Dear Deputy Prime Ministers! Dear Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova, my question is directed to you in your role as Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and, in particular, as Chairman of the Development Council, which you yourself used as a governing or coordinating body for your coalition policy. Unfortunately, from the website of the Council of Ministers and the media as opposition we receive too little or almost no information about the work of the Council, and it performs many important functions that are also interesting to us such as coordination, monitoring, control of the development, implementation and reporting of the management program, also coordination in accordance with strategic documents and so on and so forth. Of course, in accordance with the rules of parliamentary control, I ask for a very brief answer, naturally in general, to present to us the Council's work for the past year and the more important decisions it has made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u193	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u194	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't think I can give you a report on this one right now, and that's not the form of blitzcontrol. This is an internal coalition format in the Development Council, which gathers the guidelines of the parliamentary groups and ministers. This enables, if there are problems between the individual coalition partners on any of the government's policies, to resolve them in this format. Three or four times this Council has been gathered, various proposals have been imported and discussed, then accepted as government decisions. At the moment, we do not have any proposals for such a meeting, and we expect that, when the report for the first year of management is ready, it will be discussed in this format. The point of this Council is that representatives of the parliamentary groups of the ruling coalition and individual parties should submit proposals for different projects. We have such proposals from the Patriotic Front, from both the ABB and the Reformation Block, and GERB, on issues to seek common agreement. I think we've limited these topics to a minimum at this point. We also expect talks on internal coalition relations to be completed and possible signing of declarations or an annex to it in connection with judicial reform.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u195	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u196	However, thank you for your reply, Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova. I guess I got the wrong impression that the work of consultative and expert councils at the Council of Ministers is public, as it has been so far. However, naturally, I am not entirely interested in internal coalition relations, but quite specific legislative plans and everything that has been described, as you have described as functions of the body. I would be happy to have you present to us, even informally, anything that affects public administration and not intra-coalition relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u197	Line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u198	Today, the Council of Ministers adopted the legislative programme for the next six months. It's a public document. I think I'll guide you well enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u199	There is no question on behalf of the Reformation Block Group. There's no second question from the Patriotic Front. I won't. Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u200	Again, a question to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic Policy. Mr. Donchev, in June 2014, the then Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission notified the European Commission of long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity at preferential prices with the question whether or not this State aid is compatible with the internal market rules. According to information from representatives of your government, the European Commission at the end of 2014 requested additional information and it was sent. We've been waiting ever since. Please inform the Members of the National Assembly whether a reply has been received, an assessment, an opinion of the European And, secondly, is it true that representatives of the European Commission, supposedly from the Board of Directors, were staying in Bulgaria to check the situation on the ground and their visit was not made public in the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u201	Mr. Donchev, we're listening to your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u202	Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Tasheva! We are talking about two procedures with the assumption of the existence of unlawful State aid in the field of energy. One procedure is related to contracts for the preferential purchase of electricity from renewable energy sources, the other procedure is related to I'll allow myself a few adjustments in addition. It is not true that information was sent in late 2014 and then nothing happened. The last package requested information from the European Commission, I think, was sent last week. This information exchange is running extremely intensively. The European Commission is in an extremely advanced phase both in terms of one and in relation to the other procedure. In what way will the procedures be completed, I have an opinion on the matter, judging from the information we are required. But what decision will be made by the European Commission, I cannot speak on their behalf. As for whether representatives of the European Commission have been resident in Bulgaria, they live practically daily. I'm guessing it's about the visit of one of the directors, Koopman, a few weeks ago. Yes, he was actually in Bulgaria. I had a meeting with him, dedicated not only to these procedures, but also to national policies relating to the establishment and prevention of any kind of illegal State aid. In this sense, there have been proposals from the European Commission for enhanced cooperation, for technical assistance, for further expertise, so that institutions at national level can identify, register and suspend similar cases before they reach the European Commission's attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u203	Line, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u204	Mr. Donchev, you said that you have an opinion on what the decision will be on what information they want you without guaranteeing that the decision will be such. Would you please inform the people's representation of your position? What decision do you expect?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u205	Mrs. Tasheva, this is not a question of blitzcontrol. We ask for policies, and the opinion of a separate one, he and Deputy Prime Minister, cannot engage the people's representation. Do you want to share it, Mr. Donchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u206	Madam President, I'm going to repeat what I just said. I have neither the right nor the right to speak on behalf of the European Commission. A man like me must be extremely careful even to share what expectations or opinions he has. So please excuse me for not having a specific answer in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u207	A question from the ABB Group? I won't. There is no independent MP who does not belong to a parliamentary group. With this, the second round of current blitzcontrol ends. Please turn off the cameras and microphones of the direct transmission of the blitzcontrol. Honourable Members of the National Assembly...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u208	Let's get on with the cameras!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u209	If there is a proposal, then, Mr. Merdjanov. According to our weekly program earlier this morning, we accepted after the end of the blitzcontrol. to discuss and vote: PROJECT FOR THE PERSONAL CHANGE DECISION IN THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. Dear colleagues, by letter with letter. No 602-01-1 from 2 February 2016 the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov informed me that regarding the resignation of the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Todor Alexandrov Tanev presented to our attention a draft decision on the release of the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Tanev and on the election of Mrs. Meglena Stilyanova Kuneva as Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science. A draft decision and biography of Mrs. Kuneva is attached to the letter. In the Chamber The draft decision will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! The Minister of Education and Science Todor Alexandrov Tanev resigned to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov and asked to be released as a member of the government. In relation to the resigned and on the grounds of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria on behalf of the Prime Minister I present to your attention a proposal to the National Assembly for the release of the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Todor Tanev and for the election of Mrs. Meglena Stilyanova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science. Ms. Meglena Kuneva is the first Bulgarian commissioner and the first commissioner with a portfolio of consumers' rights. From 2002 to 2006 she was Minister for European Affairs and Chief Negotiator for Bulgaria's accession to the European Union. He's a master of law. She has graduated from the Faculty of Law of Sofia University (St. Kliment Ohridski) and is a doctor of legal sciences. He specialized in 1995, 1999 and 2000. "International Relations" and "International Environmental Law" at the University of Georgetown" in the United States, 1996. "Ecological Law" in Oxford, United Kingdom. He speaks English, French and Russian. Married, with one son. Ms. Kuneva holds a number of state awards for the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Portugal, the Republic of Italy. In 2008, she won the award of the European of the Year (European of the Year) at the prestigious electronic edition of the European Voice. Again in 2008 he won the award of the prestigious journal "Europian Adjenda" for the outstanding achievements in its work as Commissioner for Consumer Protection, given the short period for which he achieved high results and that he was the first commissioner with such a portfolio in the European Commission. Ms. Kuneva has been the author of two books since July 2012. Meglena Kuneva is the Chairman of the movement. After the 2014 parliamentary elections, Mrs. Kuneva holds the post of Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Issues with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. I propose that the National Assembly adopt the draft for the election of Ms Meglena Stilyanova Kuneva as Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u211	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u212	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers! I am doing a procedure for direct broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio given the importance of the vote, which we are about to have on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u213	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal for direct broadcasting on the National Radio and Television of the debate and the vote on the draft decision. We vote. Vote 162 MPs: 58, Against 16, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Mirchev, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u214	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm doing a re-voting procedure because more colleagues have come in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u215	Colleagues, re-vote the procedural proposal for a direct broadcast of the debate and the vote on the Decision. They voted 164 MPs: 59, against 23, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted. I open the debate on the draft decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to take part in this matter to give a sign. [[Comments from GERB: "No! "]] Mrs. Tasheva. [[Sighs: "Eeeee! "... by the majority.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u216	The Ataka Party is strongly opposed to Meglena Kuneva-Prumova's nomination for Minister of Education, as education is one sector, an area including spiritual, not only material, where morality should rule! This is where we go against the Prime Minister's nomination. Until everything has been agreed, nothing has been agreed so Mrs. Kuneva lied when she had to close, in particular she negotiated on Chapter...................in the course of Bulgaria's pre-accession process. She lied about the fact that after the closure of Chapter........................then we will still be negotiating for the rescue of the 3rd and IV nuclear reactor of Kozloduy....... which was just freshly upgraded to hundreds of millions of dollars by the Bulgarian people. Mrs. Kuneva then claimed that the European Commission was against them because they could not be upgraded at a reasonable price. As if it were not us Bulgarians who decide whether a price is acceptable or not acceptable to us, as if someone else should decide what is acceptable and what is not acceptable to us! Mrs Kuneva-Prime contracts quotas in agriculture that killed just killed the category of Bulgarian farmer. I would also like to ask: why has Mrs Kuneva-Prumova not notified the European Commission, as all other chief negotiators and ministers on European issues, of the existence of long-term contracts for the purchase of electricity at preferential prices? This is what Poland, Hungary and other countries have done with their entry into the European Union. Mrs. Kuneva was conveniently silent about the owners and shareholders of these companies, kept quiet about their contracts. Therefore, the European Commission had to be notified of their existence only in 2014, when the management of the energy regulator was in the hands of Boyan Boev. Mrs. Kuneva-Prumova is the only commissioner in the history of the European Commission, who has been personally streetd by the Amnesty International in conflict of interest, because as soon as it became clear that GERB's first cabinet did not want to nominate her for a second European term of office, she took some form in the management of the French bank. Of course, the bank benefited greatly from the shut-down of the small reactors of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" they opened a market for electricity exports from the nuclear power plant "Montenegro" which is financed by the Bank "Pariba". There is also another very principled question. When they take office, the commissioners take an oath. The point of this oath is to swear that they will not be guided by the national interests of the countries that nominated them, but will be guided only by the interests of ever deeper federalisation of the European Union. [[Single applause from BSP, "Attack" and "PF."]] He asks himself: Whose oath does Mrs Kuneva-Prumova keep the one she made as commissioner or the one she took a year ago and something like a member of the Bulgarian government? Obviously this is not known to Kuneva-Primova: an oath is taken for life. Oaths don't tolerate periodization. Thank you. [[Single applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u217	Any lines to Mrs. Tasheva? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Zablyanov. I remind you that we are discussing Mrs. Kuneva's nomination as Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u218	Honourable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, Prof. Tanev, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Before us the Council of Ministers has submitted a request for another change in the composition of the Council of Ministers. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] The Prime Minister. Another unargumented change in the Council of Ministers! To this day, no one has heard the motives behind the change in executive power. That was also not said in the Deputy Prime Minister's exhibition, Mr. Donchev. I think, and I suppose, it is also normal, when there is a proposal for a change in the composition of the Council of Ministers, to mention the reasons and to argue the request for a change in composition. Otherwise, we all remain convinced that the change is dictated for reasons that are not for the Bulgarian society and which somehow forced the Prime Minister to make this change. Let us focus on the question: why is the change of the Minister of Education taking place? The change takes place for one main reason and we all know it here. The sharp resentment of the whole society by the Project of Education Programs in secondary school and in the initial course, which were published on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science. Programs for discussion, examples of programs, projects of programs! [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] This was the reason the Bulgarian society got goose bumps! That was the reason the Prime Minister got scared! [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]] That was the reason why you were looking for a panic move to save your reputation! [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]] This is the reason why the Prime Minister is absent today! [[Speaking from GERB: "Eee! "]] The Prime Minister faced the strong but justified reaction of the Bulgarian nation, which for 25 years is convinced by the pulpit of the Bulgarian newly baptized teacher, that the nation can be dissolved at the sea of the European Union; that in parallel with the Cyrillica we can also use the Latina without recording it in the Law; that we can decentralize the Bulgarian school to the extent that every director and every teacher can decide what to preach and what to read; that education can take place without it having textbooks; that one subject can apply for 20 textbooks for the subject "Bulgarian history." [[a line from MP Milena Damyanova]] ; apply as many collectives as they want and so many to be approved! When that happens, the self-consciousness of the nation suffers. We all like to deal with the demographic crisis, such as the crisis that would lead to the nation's crisis! The nation's crisis is psychological, educational and political. There are nations that consist of less than seven million, but are consolidated and with their clear awareness of their place in the world. This is the role of education, which was not recorded in the Law, which introduced GERB! This is the role of education which, I think, the minister was trying to impose. That's the reason he was removed! I would like to say a few more words about the state of the parliamentary majority. We are witnessing the parliamentary majority being modified in one direction or another, as one group voted and another is absent!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u219	You say that?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u220	This parliamentary majority is the wrong formula on which the executive is based! This formula is less and less working, and the government's support is shrinking more and more. It shrinks in society, shrinks here in parliament! Otherwise, there were no colleagues who are trying to propose another candidate for a minister today to look for arguments outside the political framework in support of the candidacy. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u221	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u222	We're witnessing another earthquake in executive power! Another shock as a result of that course, which was announced a year and a half ago, when the government was made up, the course of reforms became grotesque! The reforms not only did not take place, they will not take place! The Minister of Justice has resigned from this tribune! A quick hand was found a replacement and without any arguments the wheel of the executive was turned again. The Minister of Education or Education, as colleagues now insist, has been released without arguments, hoping that the wheel of the executive power will be turned again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u223	There is a draft decision in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u224	There's no way that's gonna happen, Mr. Minister has resigned as far as I know. The question is: is all this happening, honourable Members, because of the lack of reforms, because of the reluctance to implement reforms, or because of the lack of idea of what reforms are? These issues, I believe, are not present in the executive power, nor are they present in the ruling majority. We are in this situation today because your majority has adopted an inoperative Education Act! And from this tribune we of the Bulgarian Socialist Party for days have objected to the specific texts in these laws, against the chaos with the textbooks, against the outrage in the programs, against the outrage in the structure, against the way the standards were proposed, against the deadlines in which this had to be done! All of this has been sacrificed by the government! The government has fallen victim to its own draft law, which proved impossible to implement! Not bad, not anti-Bulgarian, it is all this, but it is also impossible to apply! If this thing is not understood, then the entire legislative process of the majority will now be paved with similar precedents. The tension that was created in society over education, the tensions created in a portfolio, such as the Ministry of Education, where tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands and millions of Bulgarian citizens are employed and engaged, is the result of the incompetent understanding in the majority, and in the ruling party, of what should happen in education. A law was made on a chord to be taken into account and to take into account the reform of an old method. Let us say that we have done something. And now who will be responsible for what you've done? Who's in charge now? Why should someone who has nothing to do with him answer?! The law was introduced by the GERB Parliamentary Group, not by the Council of Ministers! Who will be responsible for what is happening in the Law?! Therefore, BSP will propose a draft amendment of the Law and an extension of the deadlines for its implementation! It is obvious that what you have done is not going to happen, there is no way to write the programs, there is no way to restructure education, there is no way to restructure the degrees, there is no way to write the textbooks for this period! There's nothing to be done! And here I really want to express concern. This is not about changing the minister, this is about changing policy and changing the law. That's why the Prime Minister was supposed to be here! It's personal responsibility, personal responsibility for what's going on! The Prime Minister cannot apologize with his coalition partners for a reform that is fundamental to the government and which was tabled by his party! Today, I would like to highlight a few more facts that are relevant to the portfolio of education. Bulgarian citizens resented not because they have read in detail the projects of the training programmes, not because they have familiarized themselves with those famous texts which colleagues have introduced in the Law on Education, they resented because with this Law and with those before it, and with the unwritten standards, Bulgarian is thrown out of education. We all saw that. The question is in the name of what is Bulgarian thrown out of education? What should come after that? Some of the colleagues believe that this is in the name of the higher education of the nation, but it is also not true! You've increased school dropouts, you've introduced primitive inflatable education, which will also make no difference. You have introduced a series of non-constant structural amendments such as the Inspectorate, such as the so-called public councils. I haven't heard anyone going to form them or what they look like. You have introduced a series of non-working practices and members and institutions. For all of this today, and for all of this, you will suffer your consequences. Because this change in the Council of Ministers will in no way hide the helplessness of the government in the field of education. The Prime Minister has taken a really nice step these days, inviting the Minister as an advisor. But the Prime Minister must inform the Bulgarian citizens that he is ending the current line, the current policy in secondary school. We're not talking about higher education here at all. And it will only come up in a few weeks, but then you will find out for what reason and you will still be surprised by the turmoil in the government, only then it can be the last. [[Noise and lines.]] It seems to me that today we are not just faced with the choice of a new minister, but with the ability of the government and the executive to revise their own decisions; to bring their policy closer to the interests of the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian nation; to understand that education is a matter of national security in the modern world, and not just a question of opening Bulgaria and uncovering it where; to understand that Paisiy Hilendarski is more important than Robinson Crusoe, because I am sure that this is still not understood; to understand that after children in sixth grade can use all the applications of the last model of iPhone, they can understand what it means. And with such unfounded claims not to justify the stupid texts, the unemployed members of the Education Act. Let the colleagues who brought it in have the dignity to go before their own party, to go to their own government and to propose the adjustments to this Law. Because from today you won't be able to solve the issue of education. You won't even be able to write those standards that you plan to write them, because that can't happen, as the Bulgarian society wants to discuss them already. To discuss them, he doesn't want you to write them to him! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u225	Any lines to Mr. Zablyanov? I won't. For speech Prof. Stanilov, after him Mrs. Marinska and Mrs. Dukova. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] Let's move on. That's the order of speech. Don't be angry, Mrs. Dukova, the colleagues were before you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u226	Dear Prime Ministers, Dear Ministers, Dear Madam President, Members! The deBulgarian education did not start with GERB and will not end with it. It started 25 years ago, since the Bulgarian society, the Bulgarian government, the Bulgarian government, all parties then accepted to govern the country on the philosophy of Libertarianism. Changes in Bulgarian textbooks and university programs have started since then. I remember that the first attack was against Hristo Botev's publicist, and I remember a lot of other things I wouldn't be bothering you with right now. The question is such.. the change of a minister does not matter very much. It matters only the change of philosophy, or we return to fundamental education, to which the Law does not have any special reason for whether it will be liberal, or whether it will be conservative, whether it will be an education of knowledge, or an education of only the information they are pushing us to now, and many people here understand this thing. I want to remind you that in the elite schools of the West is completed with a test and then a thesis is done, in our own words, a topic, or an essay is written. We don't have that kind of thing. Everything is on tests, which means that information education is already conquering, the superficial possession of knowledge is on the agenda and in ten years we will be a society that does not think. Young people are learning right now in this way of education, thinking. This isn't about changing ministers. We're replacing a minister. No one is saying, as colleague Zablyanov said, "The Prime Minister does not say why he is changing it. Then I call on the Minister to say, why is he resigning? Is it just because Borisov told him that I want your resignation, or did he say that I want your resignation, and I want it because of this, this, this and this. Perhaps a lot of people would disagree with me, perhaps it's up to the minister's personality. Nobody said that in public. I am telling you this now and I will immediately give you an example: Mr. Minister, some of whose actions I have not liked and criticized, and I have told him personally, was the only minister in the last 20 years who dared to reach the Svishtov Commercial Academy and to crush Velichko Adamov the cheater, the fraud who had made by the Academy a trading company which illegally, with fraud, became a professor and made such Zulums, who everyone involved here with education knows. Get up and say I'm not telling the truth! He was the one who took it off. Then he kind of backed up, but the job was done. It's over. If at any university that suffers from similar ones, and they are many who suffer from similar weaknesses or vices, then perhaps something in higher education will be healed. Because we have a monstrous amount of private universities that are out of their league. But we also have an accreditation agency that accreditations all these universities unconditionally. Nobody says anything about that. Once again I will say Mr. Tanev, come out here and tell the MPs why you are resigning? What didn't they like about you? I'll tell you why Mrs. Kuneva is chosen. Its biography is of a person who is like the stones where you put it, it works everywhere. I am sure that if you nominate her as Minister of Health, she will immediately agree and write a strategy immediately. If you nominate her as Minister of Economy, she will also immediately submit a strategy for a day. Because that's what she is, she's the new personality, she's called "homo novus" in Latin, which in Russian is called "jumpy." I won't tell you in other languages how it is, although here comes the German term. She is the person who agrees, the new person who agrees, who agrees not to have a Bulgarian nation, not to have a Hungarian nation, not to have a German nation, to have a European Union of multicultural societies that mean nothing and transnational companies will suck out of the European peoples huge profits and no one will resist. That's already in the realm of my theories. That's why they're putting her as a minister now. If there is one such university that, like Svishtovsky, falls into some kind of crisis, she won't dare to do anything, but it will only obscure the work. That's it. So we are going to vote against it, although our time has surprised us not all of our colleagues will be able to come, but all of us who are here will be voting against it. We absolutely disagree. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u227	- What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u228	The Rules of the National Assembly must be respected. The decision taken may change, we have not voted on this amendment. You said 2:00. A lot of my colleagues aren't here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u229	They'll come. There's time. As the debate goes, your colleagues will come. Any lines to Mr. Stanilov? I won't. Mrs. Marinska to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u230	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we are discussing the Prime Minister's proposal for personal changes in his government and it is normal that the focus of the discussion is on the personal and professional qualities of Mrs. Meglena Kuneva. I would just like to put this discussion in the context of the challenges in the field of education this year, to remind you that, in my most essential part, the new Preschool and School Education Act has been in force since 1 August. In order to ensure its implementation and effective implementation, the Ministry of Education and Science must develop 19 state educational standards, three of which are ready, and over 20 other regulations, only for a minor part of which is ready. The new educational structure requires changes in the curriculum and programs, preparation and publication of new textbooks. In this regard, urgent measures are needed to avoid the danger that first and fifth grade students will start the school year without textbooks. It is less known that the changes envisaged by the Law in the institutions in the school education system will lead to restructuring of certain schools. Currently, the National Assembly is discussing very important changes to the Higher Education Act related to the adoption and financing of state universities, the entry into force of which is also related to a very important task to be dealt with by the team of the Ministry of Education and Science. For better or worse, education is one of the most conservative systems and the occurrence of changes in it requires not only expertise, not just knowledge of problems and what needs to be done. The successful implementation of reforms requires strong sensitivity to public attitudes, to public sentiments and expectations, to create a very good communication environment and to explain changes every day. The tensions of the last few weeks have clearly shown this. Political will is also needed, and willingness to take responsibility for extremely brave decisions. And I have no doubt that Mrs. Kuneva has these qualities and therefore I suggest that we strongly support her. Thank you. [[Single applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u231	Thank you, dear Mrs. Marinska. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Snezana Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister Tanev, colleagues! First of all, I can't help but answer, at least in a nutshell, for what the BSP fellow screamed out of this tribune. I would start with another introduction, but I would like to say that when you talk about the current government, the Prime Minister, I would like to point out that he is not in Vietnam, he is simply in the European Union. [[Private applause from GERB.]] Where he will probably support and support education policy. [[Noise and lines, calls from the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u233	Please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u234	Secondly, who got scared, whether we are pagans or Orthodox, you should read more history. How can what happen all the time for these three terms, you did not read the Preschool and School Education Act? You should have read it, sir, and you wouldn't have sprung from this tribune of honest lies that didn't concern the Law and its philosophical framework, lies that were not referred to the Education Committee, which didn't refer to the legislative initiative of the political party which initiated, long and long-term aprobation and ultimately, the glory of God, adopted this Law. All these questions that you have put here are just a starting framework that must be completed by the Ministry of Education and Science in time, which are consulted and approved, agreed and there was no refusal to do so. The living doyen of this Law from the first day to his last day in the hall, I want to tell you that I have tried both from the sting and from the honey of all the speeches, and from everything that you have created, it did not surprise me, but provoked me. And since I would very much like to remind you of what you didn't read, I would just say a few words that I quickly recorded not as supporting points because you came out here and read the declaration of BSP and its supporting points.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u235	Mrs. Dukova, I just ask you to go back to the topic under discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u236	Let me just say that from this... Yeah, but I have to answer it anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u237	Oh, not necessarily!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u238	If I have to be quick, I have to tell you that we will support... [[Noise, lines and calls from BSP LB.]] You gave the right, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Zablyanov 20 minutes to speak frank lies from this tribune. I'll take the liberty of answering that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u239	You should have replicated it then.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u240	No, I can't replicate him and give him that much more to talk about because... [[Radio, laughter.]] He convinced me, but so much convinced me of the need for this reform, at last such graduates to have no place in Bulgarian education. [[Applause from GERB.]] From this sacrament, I will not speak defiled words, as my colleague speaks with baseless replacements. I understand you want to catch the bull by the horns. I understand you're in front of a convention. [[Radio.]] I understand you're looking for a political marginality that's gradually gone. This is neither the time nor the place! Today here, from this tribune, a few fundamentals that I will recall. Believe me, he needs it! I would ask you questions, but I know you can't answer them because they're thematic and, as I said, they're not supporting points, and you don't tolerate development, unfortunately. And several arguments: for the first time a comprehensive law on education in the system of secondary education by 1991, adapted, with a new philosophy adequate to time. For the first time, let the education listen to me and Mrs. Kuneva, meanwhile, is a national priority. For the first time there is no such Law, which has been discussed extensively, daily, with flying readings across Bulgaria, recorded over four thousand... [[Noise and lines, raging, calling.]] Don't laugh! Because...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u241	Mrs. Dukova, I call on this House to take this debate seriously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u242	You haven't understood what I'm talking about today. Apropo, since 2006, when you voted on the National Programme and put these changes on the line, you did it. Well, we just did it! [[Applause on the right.]] Key goals for the first time key goals facing the child and his personality, in other cases I have said.......................I have said............................................................... Support, investment, partnership, autonomy, dialogue, inspection, monitoring, participation, empathy, society, business, dual training, supporting environment, equal access, master moderator. Should I talk more? [[(Loud noise and lines BSP LB:]] A full-time organization, integration, and the so desired functional literacy of all of us, which we will receive with the value realization of the public school in which the Bulgarian language is fundamental. Diversification of this education, subsidiarity. Shall I tell you what it is? You probably don't know that. One thing is clear, you've made it clear to me that you don't understand the spirit of the Law. What was spoken in the 21st century does not correspond to that of the 19th century. Or perhaps the reform that this Law brings to society, which promotes personality and individuality, does not please you?! So how do you like it?! We want solidarity, we want accessory, time requires another mentality. [[(Sighs: "Eeeee!") by BSP LB. Noise and lines.)]] Don't you get it?! And what's more, it's changed the definition of a successful person. He's not in left space. The amount is involved and changed!...and you are frozen there in the 19th century with all your conservatism. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u243	Please, to the whole room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u244	And that thought scares you. The century changes its...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u245	Mrs. Dukova, to the entire hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u246	I'm coming, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u247	No, you may proceed, but by the appropriate rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u248	It's up to you. The century has changed its information codes, you should know that, and it is up to us all how our children will live. We're not passengers, I invite you to be a crew. [[Laughter and excitement.]] And lastly, the law is a sign. [[Laughter and excitement.]] He does not create curricula, and lastly he does not create textbooks and teaching aids, even gives the right to self-development of such ones, and these tasks will be completed by the Ministry of Education and Science because they supported the Law, all the deadlines under it and they are established. I can only wish this to happen in the best way for Bulgarian children because they deserve it. The Bulgarian education system deserves it. The road is clear and it is not a denial. We need to work fast and smart, but smart, with a heart to give our kids a chance. Derzay, don't be anachronists, get away from this box and we say to you: Come together, because this is for Bulgaria! And in the end I will say: yes, we will support Mrs. Kuneva's candidacy. Yes, I will vote for Mrs. Kuneva [[the President signals that time has run out]] because I have arguments and because I believe that education, reform should continue. Thank you. [[(Applause from GERB and RB. ♪ Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u249	Colleagues, please! Since there is a dispute as to whether the time, formal procedure, has been duly extended, although this morning we adopted the Agenda for extending today's plenary session until the debate and voting on the draft decision were completed. Please vote. On this condition, we voted this morning on the agenda, but since there is a dispute, about precision and clarity. Vote 174 MPs: 149, against 16, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Any lines to Mrs. Dukova? [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Mr. Zablyanov, do it as a line, as there is an argument whether you are mentioned by name. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Time will honor you. We'll get it out of the band's time. I wasn't at first here, but Mr. Imamov says you weren't mentioned by name. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP LB. A line from the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov.]] Mr. Yanaki Stoilov said otherwise. Make a line, the two minutes will be given to the group. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] In the line you will also express your feelings of injury. [[Noise and lines. A line from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] You want it to be personal, okay. Let's see if there are any other lines? There are no lines. You recognized each other, to understand, in her statement. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB and BSP LB.]] Colleagues, for now, we'd be done with two minutes. We're listening, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u250	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! Dear Mrs. Dukova, I would like to congratulate you that so many years after the change of the old Constitution you have been watching closely the conventions of our party [[Laughter and raging]] and you're excited with them considerably earlier than we are. [[Laughter and excitement in BSP LB.]] Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the 19th century is the century of progress and Vasil Levski and Hristo Botev are citizens of the 19th century. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] And if you believe that these two citizens of the 19th century in their own self-consciousness are behind you only because you had the destiny to be born a few hundred years later, there is simply no need to argue in this direction. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] A few more questions that seem to concern me personally.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u251	No questions, tell me what you're offended with. No questions asked, Mr. Zablyanov. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] You don't have a question procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u252	I've been asked a few questions myself. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] I can't have another mentality. My mentality is of a Bulgarian citizen, relatively decently educated and elected by the Bulgarian people as a national representative. What mentality do you suggest I have? The modern mentality that you offer is written in detail in the Law, was expressed by you and this is exactly the type of mentality that the Bulgarian society reacts to. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Because people don't accept this mentality, and it's very problematic. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u253	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Procedure in the manner of conduct?.......................................................................................in the manner..............................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u254	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, although from the very beginning of the procedure it has not been you, but it is generally for the chairmen. Colleagues and Madam President, it is unacceptable from the parliamentary platform when discussing principle issues relating to personal changes to the Council of Ministers, including resignations and appointments of new ministers, to make speeches in which only at the end does someone think about what we are gathered for and only at the end decides that he would have any arguments to vote for......................... but somehow does not share them with us. It must be difficult to find arguments to support this thesis, but if we from the Bulgarian Socialist Party discussed the Law on Education...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u255	What do you recommend, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u256	That's exactly what I want to pay attention to, because the charge is that we've been out of this. We did it only to show you that at the moment with the Minister of Education and his resignation you are washing your hands. You instead of protecting...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u257	This is not a procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u258	Madam President, I beg you very much, the next to speak, if they are of the ruling majority, let them come up with arguments why this minister and not the other minister... If there are such arguments! Otherwise, it doesn't make sense!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u259	Because there's one nomination and there's one solution project. The Prime Minister is the competent one. To make a statement, the word wants the people's representative Lutvi Mestan. Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u260	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! It is February, honourable Members, the month of political resignations. It is enough to remind you of February 1997, as well as February 2013, when the resignation of Borisov one was received. I recall these facts, especially to the ruling coalition parties who said they would not support the Prime Minister's proposal to elect Mrs. Kuneva as Minister of Education and Science to justify the question: are they ready for early parliamentary elections in May? There is no doubt that if the Prime Minister's proposal is blaming today, then the outcome of the parliamentary and government crisis that will follow is an immediate early vote. I do not allow you to have the illusion that it is possible to unlock a procedure for a proposal from Mr. Borisov for another educational minister. Such a thing in normal European democracy does not exist. With your votes, you will be blaming not Kuneva, but the Prime Minister himself. His re-proposal will be the proposal of a already tainted prime minister. The answer to the question why this game of internal opposition is still possible is clear. There is no real opposition and this opens up the possibility of internal opposition maneuvers of some of the ruling parties. We, me and the five colleagues who are with me, will not participate in this game. Decide without us this internal coalition dispute. We will not order ourselves to the mock opposition, nor will we support with our vote a cabinet which, after the release of Democrats for strong Bulgaria, has already lost its moral political legitimacy. Today, the real political issue is not whether Mrs. Kuneva will be elected Minister, but how many votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u261	She's chosen!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u262	If, after the vote on the electronic dashboard, the votes for less than 121 are polished, then for the parties of the majority ruling, this will be the digital expression of their heavy confession that the cabinet Borisov 2 and the ruling majority have lost their leadership legitimacy. Bulgaria needs a new parliament to broadcast a new cabinet, with a clear European profile free of behind-the-scenes dependencies to suffocate both it and the Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u263	First line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u264	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! Mr. Mestan, whether Bulgaria has opposition or not, you are the last person to judge. But what you have said here is called by one word "Service" to the government, and you will not participate. That's my line! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u265	Second line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u266	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Bozhinov, it is your right to determine this clear and clear position. I will repeat for your comfort we have no place with you. We don't have room in this illegal office. And there's no clearer position than that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u267	Come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u268	As far as the servantship is concerned, I will give you a very clear definition derived from the practice, which is what this service is. I will monitor very closely the key votes on which interests of the backroom depend, how many of the 39 MPs from your parliamentary group will be in the Chamber as well as other parts of the opposition. That's the definition of service. Thank you. [[Private applause by non-members in parliamentary groups of MPs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u269	Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u270	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! We from the political party Bulgarian Democratic Center will support the resignation by Minister Tanev and will support the candidate of Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva for Minister of Education. During the late hours of yesterday's work day we had the opportunity to see Mrs. Kuneva and talk. Perhaps this was the first meaningful debate on the topic of Education in a long time. We in the work of the Committee on Education supported colleagues from GERB because we believed that this Law brings reform. No matter how many defects the reform may have, the Bulgarian education should ultimately be the center of the attention, and the center of the Bulgarian education should be the children, students, students, and not the institutions, whether they are state, private or municipal. We talked to Mrs. Kuneva about the Strategy for Higher Education, about the financing of higher schools in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u271	Yeah, right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u272	Yeah, somewhere else! At the moment I cannot say that Bulgarian education is in collapse, I cannot say that it is in inevitable difficulty, but it is facing challenges. This challenge will mostly stand before the new Minister of Education and his deputy ministers... the team at the Ministry of Education. The deadlines set before them are too short. On the question of my colleague Hristo Todorov Mrs. Kuneva said she could handle it. We will give our credit of trust not only for the portfolio of education, we will give our credit of trust that the Deputy Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria will take over the portfolio of education, we will give it to preserve stability in the Republic of Bulgaria. That's the lead, because when you don't have stability in the country, you start some reforms, some regulations hang in space... There was a very wonderful strategy for higher education, for which perhaps all of you voted for...... but I voted against................................................................................ I'm still against this strategy. I continue to believe that the non-working documents make the work of the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly more difficult. Because some strategies have been adopted, inherited from previous governments and ministers, without many of you reading them. Now it turns out that these strategic documents don't work. They're empty of content because of the distance of time. Minister Kuneva, because I believe that in a few minutes or less than an hour he will be Minister of Education, has the very important task of restoring parents' trust in the education system. More and more parents do not believe in public education, more and more parents record their children in private kindergartens, private schools, private universities because they have lost confidence in public education. Before Minister Kuneva there will be a very important issue for higher education, pouring hundreds of millions of levs each year into an unreformed system; he will have to review how funding is carried out in state and higher schools, how much academic autonomy should decide how the state money will be spent, why the Ministry abdicates from control and monitoring over spending these 300 million. lv. A year? Will the intake have to be looked at, and how much to be increased, or should it be reduced? These are huge problems. However, these problems must be solved now, because the positive fruits of these problems, if they are solved at all, will be harvested in ten to fifteen to twenty years. If we don't take the step towards stability in the Ministry of Education, in the Council of Ministers, it's hard and hard on both us and those who will come after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u273	Any lines to Mr. Kenov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u274	Madam President, honourable Members! The colleague Nastimir Ananiev in the morning in a TV studio said: "The person who voted against Meglena Kuneva voted for the model. As one of the four BSP MPs then, who did not vote for Delyan Peevski, I would like to say to my colleague Ananiev that there is absolutely nothing true in his statement. I will not vote for Mrs. Kuneva, and I have not voted for the model. I am living proof that your thesis is not true. I will now say why I will not vote for Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, for purely professional reasons. I deeply believe that it is in the education system that the person who has to deal with this thing must be from this system. In the Reformation Block, I admit, there are plenty of people who can do this job. Mrs. Meglena Kuneva is not one of them. Look what happened to the Reformation Block in just two days. One went on leave, three or four would stand in the hallway and wait for a vote, others would abstain, others fiercely supported it. If the idea is to look for a beautiful and scandalous woman for this post, I think Gary-Nicole, for example, would do the job. [[Radio, lines.]] I would like to ask my colleagues at the BDZ, whose votes are hanging from this vote: how will Iglev, for example, vote? Because the most important thing today, my colleagues from the DPS, too, I see that you are quite delicate in this House not to end up with a few votes to pass this application, given that in fact most parties in this Parliament are against it. Who's supporting her? A Real Single Party [[speaking indistinctly]] , two, together with the Movement of Bulgaria for Citizens. That's it! It is humiliating for the Minister of Education in Bulgaria to be accepted by mercy. That's not acceptable. This man must weigh himself, he must start reforms from day one. Mrs. Kuneva, from yesterday until today the only question they ask me is: how many MPs will buy Kuneva to become a minister? [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] And you're in charge of corruption. You can imagine the very idea that someone in their head has the question: how many MPs will be bought, what fight against corruption are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u275	Mr. Kadyev, let's measure our means of expression.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u276	I'm measuring my expressions. I quote what people ask me. I didn't say you bought MPs. Nobody bought me. I guess none of you bought either. The very idea that people's minds are deeply encased in this thought shows how far we've come. Nobody believes us! I absolutely agree with colleague Mestan's thesis on this government and this Parliament have lost legitimacy. The sooner they resign, the better. The sooner we go to elections and whatever people decide, the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u277	Any lines to Mr. Kadyev? First line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u278	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague Kadiev, the elections have been lost by you! The elections have lost them, don't talk about lost trust! The elections won them GERB. We saw a few months ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u279	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kadyev? You're not gonna use the back. To speak, Mr. Mikov has the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u280	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable MPs! Madam President, an extension of time, please. We are discussing a draft decision on personal changes in Boyko Borisov's second cabinet. No one so far, with the exception of the representatives of BSP left Bulgaria, raised the question of what will change in education with today's vote of Mrs. Kuneva. Nobody! Because the big problems before the Bulgarian education, which make parents, teachers, citizens increasingly angry with GERB's policy in education, are related precisely to the policy that started in Borisov's first cabinet, which was continued by the minister, who will be released today and which will obviously be continued by the newly elected minister if he is elected. The truth is that this will continue to generate acute instability in the country. Attempts for another breath of air in the unprincipled combination that supports today's government and which people witness with each vote will continue to erosion trust not only in the government, will continue to eroticise trust in the National Assembly as well. And the pre-speakers said: it is not about political support, it is about unprincipled, arithmetic support only and only about changes in the cabinet. That's not the point of the Constitution, that's not the point of politics. We from BSP left Bulgaria will be extremely persistent for changing the policy in education. So far, we have not heard any statement from the candidate for Minister whether this law harmful to the Bulgarian education law, which makes education less accessible; whether this law, on the basis of which institutions will be closed in Bulgaria for children with disabilities; whether this law, which brings more and more private business into the public education, is given to issue an infinite number of textbooks; whether this law, which transfers funds to private education, will be revised is the big question. Apparently Mrs. Kuneva has no intention of changing anything. He has no intention of touching financial flows to textbook publishers, no intention of reviewing government policy in this sector. This will generate even more discontent in people, and this will be the clear, visible result in education, not like those visible results that have been shown in the various advertising materials for the past elections. The elections, despite the solemnly won by GERB, obviously in no way gave the government any more confidence and stability. Unfortunately, the behaviour of many MPs, who are defined outside the ruling coalition, will continue to destroy the confidence of this National Assembly, less legitimacy, less confidence. Therefore, we will choose the principled position to be in opposition to this policy in the field of education, which the second government of GERB is promoting. And any cosmetic changes to the staff, to the garnish, will not change this policy. We're going to vote against it! We're voting for another secondary school policy! We will vote against its destruction by GERB. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u281	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Iglev for speaking, after him Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u282	Dear Madam President, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! Mr. Kadiev, I would like to say that there are differences in our parliamentary group as well. We from the People's Union will not support Mrs. Kuneva. We are going to vote abstention for a number of reasons. Because the Ministry of Education is one of the most key, not to say the most key, and the minister's post is defining their priorities and implementation in the sector. This requires, first of all, absolute and unconditional dedication to the portfolio, which in this case Mrs Kuneva, who is deputy prime minister with a very serious portfolio, which is undoubtedly the coordination of European policies and institutional issues, cannot happen. Unfortunately, there will always be prioritization and I think its priority will not exactly be the Ministry of Education. That's why I have a lot of reservations about her candidacy. I also believe that the post of Minister of Education should be occupied by a person with an expert who is not tied to parties is not a party or square appointment. Without underestimated the qualities of Mrs. Kuneva, at the hearing yesterday she failed to convince us of our part of the People's Union that she will have to receive our support today in the Chamber. She is not familiar with some questions and the situation at the Ministry of Education, and she is such that the experiments will be detrimental to our children, who are our future. As Monica Macovei says, "Do your justice to make your country better," our chairman said yesterday: "Do your education to correct your justice and to fix your society." We expect to see among the priorities and development of sport in a preschool and school school. Also introducing healthy eating classes and more sports in schools and higher education institutions, but it did not respond positively to these questions. We hope that if Mrs. Kuneva is elected Minister of Education, she will listen to our advice. We're ready from here to be corrective, as we always have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u283	Any lines to Mr. Iglev? I won't. The word is Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u284	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The movement for rights and freedoms since the establishment of this National Assembly is declared as a clear and clear but constructive opposition in the forty-third Parliament. Why? Because even then, we have witnessed the false hopes of hundreds of thousands of voters that the new government, which will come after the last parliamentary elections and which should have provided, I would like to remind you, a smooth transition to political stability, has lied to these expectations. Because an unprincipled majority is formed on the basis of Eagle, cancer and pike. Because a majority is formed with vicious genesis and unprincipled composition, which enables political parties and political coalitions with minimal influence among society to consume huge power resources. Because this government has not given any clear guarantees that it will continue to implement the necessary reforms in key sectors so necessary to improve life in Bulgaria; so necessary to meet the expectations and recommendations in the regular reports of the European Commission on the cooperation and verification mechanism; so necessary for making Bulgaria a true European country. The main entity of this ruling majority from the very beginning of this government has been subject to continuous pressure, to continuous arm twist by small coalition partners. We have witnessed Bulgaria for the first time in our newest history of governance, in which not the opposition, but the coalition partners themselves in the ruling majority at certain key points, which are indicative in terms of the essence in general, of the meaning of a joint governance, passed on the common management interest and which voted in a way in which an opposition force should vote. As if we got used to it and the Bulgarian society began to get used to it and to accept as normal co-rulers in the government with a calm and confident tone, with an external expression of a clear conscience to justify alternative votes on key issues. Today, we face a situation like this again. Do you think, fellow Members, that this signals some political stability? Do you think that such behaviour contributes to the strengthening of this governance, to improving its image among our European partners, that this creates confidence to create a more favourable investment and business climate in the country? I think it's the opposite. Therefore, honourable Members, you cannot expect in such a situation that continues to reproduce, including today, in a situation where even the subject who broadcast the candidate as Minister of Education is divided. In this entity there is a complete ambiguity of this, are all its components part of the government or not, do they have a representative in the government, or do they not, when other major political parties and coalitions, who generally declare that they support the government of Boyko Borisov, declare that they will not support this or that personnel change? Against the backdrop of all of this, we are facing a choice today to elect a new minister of education, and I particularly stress education. Education, as one of the main spheres, is one of the most sensitive spheres in Bulgarian society, which excites all Bulgarian citizens. A sphere where there are chronically accumulated and unsolved problems over the years. In this environment, in this environment we are offered Mrs. Meglena Kuneva's candidacy. We will not dwell on its personal qualities. It has a long political history, but for us as a political force it is unacceptable the overall approach and attitude of the entire ruling majority to governance in general and especially to the portfolio. From the very beginning, from the beginning of this government, the portfolio of education started with obvious signs of mistrust.. internal mistrust, within the majority, interparliamentary majority and the team of the Ministry of Education. It was a surprise to us at the very beginning to witness that one of the two main laws in the field of education, namely the new Law on school and pre-school education, was not a fruit, was not a product of the team of the Ministry of Education, but was introduced by parliamentary political forces here at the National Assembly. This sign for us was a clear prerequisite that a instability, a mistrust, is still at stake here. Then you know all the perpetrations that this Law went through. None of our constructive proposals of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms were adopted in this Law. We are extremely skeptical about this, about the results of its application. Many important amendments to the other basic law in this area are now to be adopted.................................................................................................. We very much hope that at least the same mistakes will not be made here. We expect that if this application is supported, a clear sign will be given that the approach will be changed, that there will be no more similar signs, such a clear trend of mistrust and contradictions not only within the ruling majority, but also in general between the ruling and opposition, if we really want this important sphere of Bulgarian public life to receive an adequate solution to its problems. We'd be happy to see such signs. We seriously doubt that this will happen in this distribution of forces, and this clear division of.. dividing lines, within the ruling majority. Honourable Members, against the backdrop of all this and not least because of the clear sign that we see today, including uncertainty, inconclusiveness, and lack of sufficient motivation in the ruling majority itself, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms could not and will vote against the decision on personal changes in the composition of the Council of Ministers. The movement for rights and freedoms is a clear, firm opposition in the Forty-third National Assembly. No one can expect from the DPS when the co-rulers themselves show inconclusiveness, uncertainty, a lack of any consistency of positions, of actions, to expect support from the opposition. We are addressing colleagues from the ruling majority as far as it will manifest itself in today's vote. Dear colleagues, if you continue on this path, you will really convince the Bulgarian society that this formula of governance will not last long. There's no future! The sooner you realize this and take adequate measures, the more you will distance this inevitable outcome in time. If you do not take measures if you do not improve internal synchronization, coordination, coordination and consideration of your management decisions, you will indeed create, without any involvement of the opposition, an appropriate environment for early parliamentary elections. I hope you've heard that warning. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u285	Any lines to Mr. Kazak? Here you are, Mr. Kadiev, you didn't use the five minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u286	Dear Mr. Kazak, you say very well that you are a true opposition and that you will vote against the House, but in the end the votes are counted in this House and I see a digital and I speak with you 16 people from the DPS group here. Guarantee that 30 people will enter the vote because if they do not enter, this will be the political deal and this will be the model Who with GERB, a political deal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u287	Let's go again, let's go again!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u288	I would also like to say to my colleagues from the BSP, especially to my colleagues from "Attack" because I see three people at the moment from "Attack." Don't let us all be against it and finally let Mrs. Kuneva pass just because half of them snuck out of the room because they made some deal somewhere, someone for something. If we're opposition, we'll be opposition, we won't be mice and we won't sit in the hallways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u289	Would you like to use the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u290	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mr. Kadiev, for me, a measure of principle and consistency in politics is with which a political party has entered parliament, with it to go out! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u291	The word for speech is Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u292	Mrs. President, Deputy Ministers, Ministers, Members of the National Assembly! I will speak in favour of the proposal for a decision on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. My exhibition will be in two short parts. First, several sentences about Meglena Kuneva herself and secondly, an opinion on her expected position as Minister of Education and Science. I have known more closely Mrs. Kuneva from around 15-16 years old, first as Director of the Legal Department in the Council of Ministers; then as MP from the Thirty-nineth National Assembly; chief negotiator in the process of Bulgaria's accession to the European Union; Minister for European Affairs in two Cabinets; European Commissioner; the first woman with the award of the 2008 European Year, mentioned this by the respected Mr. Donchev; member of the Lisbon Council for a knowledge-based society. On 15 November 2010, Meglena Kuneva, as adviser to the Vice President of the European Commission, stated responsibly that education, health and public administration can be the Bulgarian priorities and more: To change the structure of our economy can only with education as a national priority. Although with excellent opportunities to realize its potential and experience in Brussels, Meglena Kuneva is returning to Bulgaria to live and work here to support the economic and spiritual development of the Fatherland. During all these years Mrs. Kuneva has proven herself to be a person of extensive management experience, with a strong character... a woman who works more than to speak. What do we expect from her? First of all, to continue the reform of education, initiated by Prof. Tanev was just here. With the strong political will that Mrs. Kuneva has and which was undoubtedly an argument when preparing the Prime Minister's proposal for the position of Deputy Prime Minister to be entrusted with the responsibility of the responsible Ministry of Education and Science. We expect her excellent legal training suppose a doctor in law, to have this science-education degree, a doctor in law, is not a very easy job, and her impeccable administrative approach to combine with her ability to mobilize people and urge them to give the maximum of themselves. Thus, the magnificent experts at the Ministry of Education and Science will be able to speed up the work on the preparation of the regulations............. what the colleague Marinska, state educational standards, curricula, the timely implementation in the practice of the Law of the Useful Law of preschool and school education, without moving or even removing important layers of our family memory. We will expect greater dialogue between Ms. Kuneva and the teachers, directors and other pedagogical specialties and specialists, with the word organizations, with parents and journalists. To explain more what is working at the Ministry of Education and Science is an obvious and necessary condition and advantage. In the Committee on Education and Science of the Forty-third National Assembly under the chairmanship of Milena Damyanova there is an excellent working atmosphere and as a result good legislative solutions. We look forward to fruitful cooperation with the Ministry and the new minister, because the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education is due to enter our Chamber, amendments to the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber, the Act on the Promotion of Research, the Law on Vocational Training and Education are on the agenda. Tanev. We will also expect decisive support from the Minister of Education and Science Mrs. Kuneva for catching up our debt to science in our country, including with an increase in the state subsidy for science when the state budget for 2017. Here was even the finance minister just now. In conclusion, I call on all Members of Parliament to overcome the party passions, to approach responsibly and to support Meglena Kuneva and the draft decision on personal changes proposed by the Prime Minister! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and single applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u293	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. - What's the line? First line, Mrs. Ahmedova. Second line, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u294	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Veliv, you said that you knew Mrs. Kuneva very closely and long convinced us that she was the most suitable candidate. You have reasons and reasons for that. That's where the question arises, since you have such solid arguments and motives why did you fail to convince your own group to vote for it, and why did you fail to convince the supporting parties in the ruling majority to do so with these motives? [[(Reply from DPS: "Bravo! ") Claps by DPS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u295	Second line, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u296	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Velikov, I am provoked because you said that the adoption of the Law took place in a very nice working atmosphere, which is actually problematic today. It wasn't like that at all, there was hardly any debate. [[(crowd cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, ……]] , answers to our questions were not given. In this Chamber, the government did not defend any of their controversial texts. Mrs. Kuneva I do not know how good she can be as Minister of Education, but one thing I understand: the experiments in this government are clear. Sociology entered the Ministry of Interior and we see the results, now we will see Mrs. Kuneva what experiments she will do in the Ministry of Education. The problems we've been talking about, they're starting to happen one after the other.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u297	Mr. Mirchev, we are discussing a draft decision on personal changes! Your entire group is deviating from the debate today.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u298	No one deviates because Mr. Veliv is talking about reforming education, and we are witnessing a total distortion and destruction. I will finish with this: Mr. Minister Tanev in the Commission warned him to stand up for the positions I am ending, of the state, but he stood behind the Law and this at the moment ate his head. The same will happen to Mrs. Kuneva! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u299	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u300	Thank you, Madam President. I understand the colleagues Ahmedova and Mirchev. They still strive to raise the spirit of their own parliamentary groups and, of course, to recommend certain things that may be fulfilled further. Whether we have been convincing enough and what the results of the vote will be, we will see in a moment. However, the fact is that to young colleague Mirchev I have to say that he and other colleagues from both BSP and DPS were actively involved. Here and colleagues from GERB will support me that many of their proposals have been taken into account and this can be seen on the second reading report that passed in the Chamber. Another point is that perhaps more things could have been taken into account if they would have been more convincing. Either way, to use today's debate on election training... Personally, I believe that early elections are too far away, if at all possible. Thank you. [[Single applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u301	There's a word for it, Mr. Iankov. After him, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u302	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! The nomination and appointment of Mrs. Kuneva is an absolutely illogical political action, which shows the approach in the distribution of sectoral policies. People deprived of any competence, taking up posts as a prey distribution. You have two industry ministers who have crashed education and health care. One's gone, the other's stubborn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u303	On the draft decision, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u304	What to talk about the full-fledged carelessness in the Ministry of Interior! [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u305	Mr. Yankov, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u306	Save Bulgaria! Give me your resignation!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u307	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u308	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, Ministers, honourable Members! Today we are offered a decision to change a third minister from the cabinet Borisov 2 in three sectors, which are obviously not reformed and obviously this is a recognition that the ruling majority and the prime minister understand perfectly that there are problems, that these sectors want another solution and that is so, and the assessment of our parliamentary group is such. You remember that in adopting the budget, the DPS Parliamentary Group made it clear that the reforming government, which Mr. Borisov composed, in its reforming part, is not doing its job. Proof of this is the previous budget, proof of this is also the budget. Proof of that is these shifts, including today's. And I ask myself: how much longer does it take for the biggest party in this coalition to understand that these particular reforms will not happen with these partners? [[Relations from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] Reforms happen when there is a clear profile of reforms, there is a coherence of the political entity who wants to make them. The will comes from there. Will can't come from asking one person not to want in one ruling majority.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u309	On the draft decision, Mr. Tsonev, not at all about reforms as such!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u310	It is about the replacement of the education minister and that there is a lack of reforms and insufficient, uncoherent, incorrect reforms. There is no clear profile of reforms in both education and other spheres. I'll give you an example to illustrate what I'm saying. There's a very interesting book that every economist should have read. The competitive advantage of the nations. In this book are examined for 70-80 years, especially after World War II, the nations that have succeeded, based on what policy they have succeeded. The boom of Japan, the Korean boom, the German boom, after World War II, and so on. All countries have found different paths. However, there is one thing in common in the success of all these countries. This is the fact that they all invested in education. They had the will to do everything necessary so that education could rise to such an extent that they could help their countries achieve such economic growth as they had achieved. Does our country have the will to do it? Should I ask the ruling coalition first?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u312	So you don't even find common ground about who to do it?! And you don't find common ground about who does it, do you know why? Because you have no clear idea what needs to be done. And you think it's up to the guy or the guy who's gonna do it. Mrs. Kuneva, we will not vote for you for the reasons we have already said. However, if you are elected, I think you should pay particular attention to the reform profile. The clear profile of this reform is where we start and what is the ultimate goal, even if this ultimate goal is not in the mandate of this cabinet and of this ruling majority. I take advantage of the fact that it is still becoming a change of minister, to ask Mrs. Bachvarova, who I have respected, Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova, who is one of the architects of this coalition: is this how you pictured her when you introduced her to us, and to all of us? [[Single applause from the DPS Parliamentary Group.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u313	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mrs. Tasheva, a reply to Mr. Tsonev. [[Noise and lines.]] She spoke, but there's no obstacle to making a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u314	The line is in the following few remarks. It is not true that Bulgaria does not invest in education. Millions are invested in the birth of our young generations from the Bulgarian, from the national memory, 20 million are given only to the so-called teachers. It honors Minister Tanev that he spoke first about this so-called mafia. This, one. Secondly, let us not frighten Parliament. Within a single parliament there may be several numerous shifts and repairs of the cabinet, there may be several prime ministers. I don't know who pressed the key....Little Mestan, but there is a danger that he will become a habit of tearing down parliaments if he feels inadequately cared. So absolutely no drama will occur if Meglena Kuneva does not become Minister of Education. Who said that every parliament is automatically obliged to call for a vote, to vote for a vote, one prime minister decided to replace one minister with another? This is routine, look at the French governments, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u315	Oh, now the French.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u316	You won't scare us by blaming the Prime Minister. In the case of this nomination, he deserves to be blamed. Because, excuse me, I'm addressing my colleagues on the right...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u317	You have a line for Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u318	Yeah...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u319	Left!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u320	Yeah, okay. We've listened to a lot of statements, a lot of spells against residual communism on the left, but, majority colleagues, if you're such fighters against residual communism, let's answer one of you to come out and answer: why do you want to be the daughter-in-law of the Politburo of the CCP of the BCP? [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u321	Second line? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, the line was to the right, and you spoke, and you're in the center!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u322	Thank you, Madam President. There was no line to me, and if there was, I couldn't be in charge of sister-in-laws or sons-in-laws. I have spoken about the position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and that we, as a nationally responsible party, are really concerned about the necessary reforms. Again, let me remind you that we have suffered enough political damage from our will to give way to this very Parliament, precisely to such a majority to carry out the necessary reforms for the country. And we have said that, and we will continue to say it, we will be very persistent about these reforms, we will follow them very closely and we will be very critical. We have this obligation as a political party, but we also have this right as a DPS.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u323	Any other speeches? I won't. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u324	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! There is an extremely important choice ahead, an extremely important decision to see not only support for the new minister, but at all support for this government. This is a kind of vote of confidence in this government and a lack of education policy. Therefore, you, of the majority of the morning, refused to turn on BNT cameras and BNR microphones, although here you expressed your readiness that you would vote with dignity for this decision. We are giving you one more chance to see those who are not here because they will practically support this decision. That is why I am also making a procedure for the vote to be on the ground, clearly and categorically stated. [[noise and lines]] , the way of voting. Your choice is worthy, stand up and prove it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u325	In accordance with art. 64 of our Rules of Procedure, a motion to vote under art. 63, para. 2, p. 3 A place of roll call in alphabetical order and a reply with a........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I accept that the proposal was made on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. The proposal is put to the vote without debate, there is one MP from a parliamentary group who does not agree with the proposed proposal. Is there a MP from a parliamentary group who disagrees with the proposal made? Mr. Lazarov! [[BSP LB.]] Like yours! [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u326	Madam President, there's an electronic system, it's name-plated, it's clear, you can see who's voting. The justification for having a roll-call vote on the feet, with a response to the answer, was justified by this in order to see what confidence in this government was. Colleagues, there was an election two months ago! We have seen what trust is in your political party. [[Laughter and applause from GERB]] , to our political party. I just don't take that argument seriously. You've been saying that a few times before, which is why I disagree with this proposal. Trust we saw in the election! [[(Applause and cheering from GERB: Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u327	I put to the vote Mr. Philip Popov's proposal on how to conduct the vote, other than usual with our computerised system. They voted 199 MPs: 49, against 106, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. The debate is closed. Project! DECISION for personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in connection with the decision of the National Assembly on the election of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 7 November 2014. (prom., D.V., No. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed,), Decision of the National Assembly on Personal Changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 11 March 2015. (prom., D.V., No. 19/2015) and the decision of the National Assembly on personal changes to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria of 18 December 2015. (prom., D.V., No. 101/2015) HAS DECIDED 1. He released Todor Alexandrov Tanev as Minister of Education and Science. 2. She elected Meglena Stilyanova Kuneva "Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs" and Minister for Education and Science. Voting mode. Vote 202 MPs: 104, against 66, abstention 32. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev. [[Speaking from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u328	Dear colleagues, I ask for a re-vote, as the DPS group has failed to vote only 20 out of 30. [[Loud noise and lines.]] And Ataka's group failed to vote only 5 out of 11! Thank you. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u329	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 203 MPs: for 106, against 66, abstention 31. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] The motion is accepted. First negative vote, Mrs. Boyadjieva. [[Noise and lines: A vow?]] Second negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov. The members of the Council of Ministers swear to take an oath as such. Mrs. Kuneva is the current Deputy Prime Minister and has taken the oath of a cabinet member. Negative vote. We're listening to Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u330	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against the proposal made. From months back, we from BSP left Bulgaria have warned about the problems in Bulgarian education in the discussion of the new Law on pre-school and school education. The first facts about the problems created in the Bulgarian education system are already present. There is an explosion of public discontent throughout the country and numerous protests regarding the curricula for the Bulgarian students in the second, sixth and eighth grade. The other major problem that has been shown today during the discussion is that the change of ministers will not lead to better results. It's just a move to cut off the public tension. That is why I voted against. In the vote, the cognitive structure of this unprincipled government, which is currently in Bulgaria, was evident. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u331	Mr. Ermenkov, the negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u332	Madam President, ladies and Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ministers, honourable Members! I voted against Ms Kuneva's candidacy as Minister of Education for a single reason. It was she who must have excited everyone in Bulgaria: why was this shift carried out? What were the reasons for this shift? Will this shift lead to an improvement in education? Is the new minister they're offering us better than the old minister? I think we all know the answers. The vote showed them, a vote that went by a thread. It shows that the parliamentary ruling majority no longer has consensus on this issue. A vote that has shown that people in the ruling majority are also aware that this shift will not lead to an improvement in education. I voted against it because the way this shift was done, we once again showed that in Bulgaria the ministers' shifts are not to improve the situation, but to find a post for one of our people, so that we can save the rocking construction. I voted against it, because in this way we continue to destroy the statehood and belief of people in the government, showing that what it says: "Fish stinks from the head, this government is practicing it. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u333	Mr. Slavcho Atanasov wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u334	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! There's been a technical error. Let my vote be considered an abstentionist. That's how I voted the first time. You can look at the protocols. The second time he gives me a "for" note. That's the way it is. Let the record show that I have abstained from voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u335	Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u336	Thank you, Madam President. As well as my colleague Mr. Atanasov, I would like to say that there is a technical error. Let my voice be considered abstentionist, as I have actually voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-03.u337	Colleagues, we've had similar cases when a Member of the National Assembly stated from the stand for the transcript. This does not change the adoption of the decision. Mrs. Kuneva is the new Minister of Education and Science. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] Let's say congratulations! Due to the exhaustion of the agenda envisaged for today, I am closing the plenary session. Tomorrow, a regular meeting with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
