ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, on 27 January, a request was received from Margarita Ivanova Zlatareva-Rouseva, Vice-President of the Central Election Commission, who resigned as Vice-President for personal reasons and asked to be terminated early. Therefore, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of our Rules of Procedure I propose, as point 1 today, that we discuss the resignation application and vote on a draft decision to terminate its mandate as Vice-President of the Central Election Commission. Please vote on the inclusion of this point as the first one today. They voted 120 MPs: 116, against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We move on to item one of the agenda: TERMINATION OF THE FULL POWER OF THE EMPLOYANT PRESIDENT OF THE CENTRAL ELECTRONIC COMMISSION. Like I told you, with a letter in my hand. No 636-00-2 of 27 January 2016, an application was received to me by Margarita Ivanova Zlatareva-Rousseva. 51, para. 2, p. 1 of the Election Code. The application says: Mrs. Tsacheva, I hereby resign as Vice-President of the Central Election Commission for personal reasons. I ask that I be terminated in advance of the powers conferred on me by the decision of the National Assembly on 26 March 2014. On this occasion I offer to your attention a professional Project! DECISION terminating the power of Vice-President of the Central Election Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 51, para. 2, p. 1 of the Election Code HAS DECIDED She suspended the powers of Margarita Ivanova Zlatareva Ruseva as Vice-President and member of the Central Election Commission. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm voting on the draft decision I introduced you to. They voted 123 MPs: 120, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, taking into account that next week the first Wednesday is the first Wednesday in February and the programme is arranged with regard to the proposals by the parliamentary groups under Art. 50, para. 8, as well as the need to finish the second reading of the Public Procurement Act in the fastest order, with a view to sufficient time until its entry into force so that both contracting entities and the people who will apply it can be acquainted with it, I suggest to your attention that we adopt a decision on the basis of art. 45, para. 3 of the Rules for extraordinary plenary sitting on 2 February 2016, Tuesday, 11:00 with an agenda: 1. Second vote on the Public Procurement Bill. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act. [[National Representative Grozdan Karadjov wants the floor.]] A counteroffer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the reasons for the urgent adoption of the Public Procurement Act, in my opinion, do not correspond to reality. In its current form, the Public Procurement Act is such a wide open door to corruption that officials do not need any special training. In fact, whatever comes to mind, that's what they can do. It became clear here in this room. [[Noise and lines.]] Secondly, I do not see why we need to meet on an extraordinary day to complete this Law, provided that the Law requires really careful and detailed consideration. There are at least a few more very problematic members, the productions in which they need to be discussed. I don't know the plans, Madam President, at next week's agenda board, but if you could explain to us what next laws are so important that we have to look at it here in an emergency session? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u3	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Your observations on the substance of the bill are irrelevant to the procedural proposal to hold an extraordinary plenary session. In addition, I believe that dedicating much of the plenary day on Tuesday to the possibility that we specifically debate on this Law is in the interest of what you have said.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u4	Procedure the way it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u5	After we vote. Voting regime, fellow Members. I'm voting...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u6	Well, no, it's...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u7	After giving back an opinion. The procedure is a vote. Then I'll give you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u8	I'd like to ask on the basis of which procedure did you treat me? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u9	I'll give you an answer. I'll answer you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u10	After the vote?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u11	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u12	In doing so, you have unduly exercised influence over this House and you are not giving me the opportunity to even the score.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u13	We'll keep talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u14	Then why do I need it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u15	We're voting, guys! They voted 130 MPs: 86, against 24, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Mr. Karadjov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My speech in the manner of conduct is about abuse of the position of President, who conducts the meetings of the National Assembly by you, Mrs. Tsacheva, because you made a procedural proposal and argued it. In your motives, you pointed out the need, the need for time to train officials with the new provisions of the new Public Procurement Act. In my speech, I expressed a distasteful opinion and, in fact, for this very purpose, I stood here on this stand, expressing the opposite opinion that the Law is an open door already in the field.... what is there to teach them... they are trained in corruption, there is no need to train them. Then you take the word illegally and tell me that I was not entitled to that argument. And how did you have the right to this argument when you proposed this procedural proposal? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I very much ask you to take a note and not apostrophe us in this way by using your authority at the chair of the sitting to make suggestions to the House to disregard what I have said in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u17	Is there now a dispute under the procedure that I have two minutes to answer for the procedure in the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u18	Get down to the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u19	Dear Mr. Karadjov, you are right that in a normal procedure, under which it is offered and heard back opinion, there is no way that the one who first took the floor can take it again. In your opposite opinion, you have raised questions to me that are very clearly recorded in the transcript, and I felt that it would be extremely disrespectful of me if I did not answer you, Mr. Karadzhov. It is because of the good tone that I have explained that the objection that you have made does not, in substance, apply only in the procedural plan for reasons against such a meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u20	You should have taken the floor from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u21	Let's continue with: Second reading of the Law on Public Procurement. On the day yesterday we reached art. 196 and now we are going to continue reporting this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u22	Thank you, Madam President. The time limit for the lodging of an appeal The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 196, which becomes Art. 197, as in para. 1, t. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / The second paragraph is replaced by the following: 179 (a.k.a. 2 Under art. 197 has a proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 197, para. 1 All over the words. 2 is replaced by the following: The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the importer's test for art. Article 197, which becomes Article 197. 198, like in it all over the words. 196............................................................................................................. 197. Under art. 198 has a proposal from the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: Art. 198, para. 1, para. 3 and para. The Commission for Protection of Competition is replaced by the Supreme Administrative Court. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 198, para. 4 the words "three-day term' is amended to "three-day term'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 198, which becomes Art. 199: "Appeal of a complaint' Art. 199. (1) The complaint shall be submitted to the Commission for Protection of Competition by a copy and to the contracting authority whose decision, action or omission is appealed. (2) The complaint shall be written in Bulgarian and shall contain: 1. name of the authority to which it is submitted; 2. the company of the trader, or the name of the legal person, as well as the seat and the last address of the relevant register and its e-mail address; respectively the three names and address, telephone, fax and e-mail address, if any, of the applicant, the natural person; 3. the name and address of the contracting entity; 4. details of the contract and the decision, act or omission to be appealed; 5. the objections, grounds and requests of the applicant; 6. Signature of the person lodging the complaint. (3) The appeal to the Commission for Protection of Competition shall be subject to: 1. a copy of the contested decision where it is not published in the Register of Public Procurement; 2. evidence of compliance with the term under art. 197, para. 1 and 2; 3. a document for a paid state fee; 4. proof of the submission of the complaint to the contracting authority; 5. other evidence, if the applicant has any. (4) If the complaint does not meet the requirements of para. 2 and para. 3, p. 1-3, the Commission for Protection of Competition informs the complainant and gives it a three-day period to remedy irregularities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u23	That's it. Colleagues, speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I am voting on the proposal of the MP Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 11 against 18 abstentions 74. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 106 MPs: 18, Against 6, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Georgi Kadiev's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 9, against 23, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for members with numbers 196 to 198 by importer, which become respectively Articles 197 to 199, together with their names, in the version of the Commission Report. They voted 111 MPs: 90 against 2, abstention 19. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u24	"Department II.. Production The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Article 199 supposed by the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: Art. 199, para. 1 and para. 2 are amended as follows: 1. In Art. 25, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 199, para. 1: The Commission for Protection of Competition is replaced by the Supreme Administrative Court. 2. Art. 199, para. 2 acquires the following version: In the cases referred to in para. 1 the courts return the complaint by order. The order shall be subject to appeal by a private appeal before a five-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court within 3 days of its notification. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 199 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 199 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new art. 201. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 200: ? Formation of production Art. 200. (1) The President of the Commission for Protection of Competition shall initiate proceedings by order within three days from the receipt of the complaint or from the removal of the irregularities thereof. The order shall designate a member of the committee who shall monitor the examination of the complaint and, where appropriate, give instructions. The proceedings initiated shall be notified to the contracting authority. (2) The contracting authority shall send an opinion on the complaint, supported if necessary by evidence, within three days of receipt of the notification under para. 1. (3) Upon initiation of proceedings, the President of the Commission for Protection of Competition shall appoint officials from the administration of the Commission for carrying out an examination of the complaint. (4) Where the order contains or requires classified information, or has an object in the areas of defence and security, the employees under para. 3 shall be authorised to access classified information to the relevant level in accordance with the requirements of the Classified Information Protection Act. "Custom Formation of Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov: "1." Art. 200, para. 1 and para. 3 are amended as follows: The Supreme Administrative Court shall initiate proceedings with a decision within 3 days of the complaint being lodged or of the removal of the irregularities thereof. The proceedings initiated shall be notified to the contracting authority. 2. Al. 3 is canceled. 3. Al. 4 becomes para. 3 and in it the servants of para. The Court's staff shall be replaced by the officials having access to the relevant classified information. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov: "1." Art. 200, para. 1 to be amended as follows: Art. 200. (1) The President of the Commission for Protection of Competition shall initiate proceedings by order within 3 days from the receipt of the complaint or from the removal of the irregularities thereof. The President of the Commission for Protection of Competition shall, at the same time as the proceedings, randomly designate a rapporteur for the case, a member of the Commission. The proceedings initiated shall be notified to the contracting authority. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 200, para. 3 and para. 4 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 200 para. 3 is amended as follows: After the initiation of the proceedings, the Commission for Protection of Competition carried out a complaint study. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose art. 200 shall be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new Article. 200. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 201: The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in force are compatible with the internal market Art. 201. (1) The President of the Commission for Protection of Competition shall not initiate proceedings where: 1. the complaint has been lodged after the expiry of the period referred to in Article 1. 197, para. 1 and 2; 2. irregularities in the term under Art. 2. are not removed. 199, para. 4; 3. the complaint has been lodged before the expiry of the relevant period under art. 100, para. 3, 4 or 5 and art. 179, para. 1; 4. the complaint was withdrawn before its initiation; 5. the act shall not be subject to appeal. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The President of the Commission for Protection of Competition shall return the complaint by order. The order shall be subject to appeal by a private appeal before a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court within three days of its notification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u25	Statements under Section II to art. The new one, including the 201. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u26	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll speak on the new article. 200 and on the proposals that have been made for changes in it. I would like to support the proposal, which provides for the introduction of something as well-known as the principle of accidental distribution of cases in the judiciary. At the moment in which it is proposed, the President of the Commission will single-handedly designate a member of the Commission who will monitor the proceedings in question on the complaint will give instructions when he decides. Furthermore, once again the President of the Commission has already appointed, at his discretion, such a member for what I have told you, he will also appoint the Commission staff to work on the case. And here: absolutely what motives and considerations he has to make these appointments, we just won't have any way of knowing, as these are absolutely subjective decisions of his. What is proposed by colleague Karadjov is really random, i.e. to introduce something similar to this random principle of cases, which we all know very well from the reports of the European Commission and here, i.e. to have some element of chance. Not the same members, let us say, to the Commission to work on files of the same contracting entity which are appealed and to give the same opinions. Because the other basically leads to this: if you remember a time ago there was a journalistic material, an investigation that had defined the President of the Commission, whoever he was, as ruler of public procurement. This is why they wrote it, because it can subjectively determine who to work on a complaint, it can determine the employees to work on it. I don't have to say, we all know it doesn't matter at all. This really matters, and if there is to be a process of transparency, of correctness, including a lack of doubts about any prejudice in the Commission, it is very important. Because, colleagues, as you very well know, with this enormous burden of the Commission with all kinds of complaints, it is crucial that the draft decision that this Commissioner is proposing to the Commission itself for consideration and for voting is crucial. So it doesn't matter who drew it up or what direction this draft decision is in, or whether to support or reject the complaint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u27	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In this Law there are many corrupt doors, as it has already become clear, but there is also a very serious footprint of the so-called Botevgrad Magnaur school in law. Here you have witnessed the Montenegrin School of Commerce, but the Botevgrad School is a subsidiary of the right-wing main legal school. If you understand what I am saying, of course, this law school has already created some innovations in law, which have so far been implemented only at the level of the Commission's internal rules on competition. Now, for the first time, I see that the Botevgrad School of Magnature comes out on the mat of legislation with art. 200. To explain and find out exactly what this is about, I will explain to you what the situation is right now. In the Commission for Protection of Competition by an Internal Order and Rules, it is decided, outside the Commissioner who is the rapporteur, to form a working group, whose chair is, in fact, an employee of the KPC, to prepare the entire file, everything, including the conclusions and the proposal for the decision of the KPC. With this in practice, the President of the current KPC has taken our powers very seriously. That is to say, he has abolished a principle of law that, when a committee is elected, an independent committee, an independent regulator, and the main common regulator for competition, the most serious scourge against monopolies, cartels and trusts, this chairman himself has promoted the employees to members of the committee, who otherwise you have chosen, I stress you, because in the previous term probably many of you have participated in this choice. This is a serious injustice, which is now entering to be dressed in legal clothes. Not only that in art. 200 has been dropped so often our word in European reports to distribute cases randomly, i.e., I apologize, I will be even more precise... I apologize, you already have other seats... The President of the Commission is currently determining who is to be given a case under the Public Procurement Act. At the same time, we are fighting a titanic battle for the judges who will appear here at next instance to distribute the cases on a random basis. It's no secret to any of you that the KPC is actually quasi-court. It shall decide the cases of public procurement at first instance. That is, we have magnified him to have these functions. However, he has embezzled functions that currently offers you quite pleasantly, you have to validate them with your finger under the pressure of discipline, Mr. Ivanov, you understand what I'm saying, we define him as a sole holder of the random principle. That's what it means to hold corruption. He'll be handing out the portions. And here, gentlemen of the DPS, you must also be interested, because there is already a new one, you are the only one [[the President signals that time has run out]] , distribution of portions. More than that, in para. 3 this distributor shall transfer these functions to the administration and not to the members of the Commission. One second, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u29	Forty has passed...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u30	Therefore, I ask that the third and fourth paragraphs be dismissed. Do not empower the employees with the powers of a member of the KPC! Thank you. Thank you for your tolerance, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u31	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. The proposal is under art. 199 by importer. We are voting on the unsupported proposal. They voted 100 MPs: 27, against 8, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Kadiev, not supported by the Commission. 97 MPs voted: 20, 26, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to reject art. 199 by importer, as it reflects its systematic place as a new art. 201. We are voting for rejection of art. 199 by importer. Commission proposal! They voted 102 MPs: 95 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. On our proposals by the Commission a new article. In his speech Mr. Karadjov proposed that paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Commission's version should be dropped. I put to the vote Mr. Karadjov's motion to drop para. Art. 3 and 4 of art. 200 on the Commission report. They voted 101 MPs: 38, against 21, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Not all of our fellow Members have been able to vote, but this is more important in this case. There is a very serious scandal at stake here, which may also have a corrupt taste. Imagine, from now on, we will elect a new Commission for Protection of Competition. Imagine that, let's say, on topics such as fuels, monopolies, medicines, and it might turn out that a commissioner will be in charge for years and he will be doing investigations when there is suspicion of a cartel, of a dominant monopoly position. One person will answer, one Commissioner, one Commissioner on all these issues for years. There will be no accidental distribution of cases. And really, the CDC is a quasi-court. This is a very serious mistake. Should we wait for the next European Commission report to tell us that such a practice is unacceptable? Should we wait for the next very big scandal to change what is now voted on? So I specifically call on colleagues from GERB, who say the very name of the party is called the European road. This is not the European path, fellow Members! This is not the European path of Bulgaria. There may be few commissioners, but let them have a random distribution of cases, cases, investigations! Let different people check for cartels different signals regarding fuel, for example. Listen to me very carefully! Let different people check when there's a cartel suspicion about drugs! Let people be different so that the same findings and the same problems are not the same! So I specifically call you to reason. This is a very important text and a potential very big scandal that awaits us from now on. We'll pick a new CDC, but it doesn't have to work the way it used to. It must work on new rules, solve problems and protect competition. I know that the easiest thing to do right now is to hide behind what the Commission has proposed for the report, not to think about the easiest thing, but here you have personal responsibility. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Each of us has a personal responsibility in all our actions to be guided by the interests of the people. Please, you are guided by the interests of the people and by the interests of the right, if you ask me!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u33	Revoting, Colleagues [[noise and lines]] We are doing a re-voting of Mr. Karadjov's proposal to drop para. 3 and para. 4. They voted 109 MPs: 49, against 20, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new art. In its version of the Commission's report, the Commission adopted a decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Vote 107 MPs: 82 against 8, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Revoting please, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The colleagues of Bozhanov and Gokov were moving and had no opportunity to vote. Besides, I still think the House misunderstands the announcement we are voting for. Colleagues, you are currently voting that there is no accidental distribution of cases. The Commission for Protection of Competition acts as a court. In the Strategy that we voted here with a huge majority of both for judicial reform and for anti-corruption, we specifically emphasized this text, but now in the Public Procurement Act, where the portions are distributed, you remember that this is a significant philosophical and fundamental text for the distribution of the portion of the funding, so here, where the portion of the funding is distributed, you allow one person to distribute the portion of the funding.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u35	Who, who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u36	Why? Colleagues, I suggest only one phrase to be added to the so-made text by public procurement officials. They have reason to suggest that it is not random, but we are MPs, we have reason to stop them. We have reason to want it to be random, and that reason is the voices of the people who are behind each and every one of you. Come to your senses!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u37	We're going over a new article. In its version of the Commission's report, the Commission adopted a decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. They voted 108 MPs: for 67, against 23, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u38	Thank you, Madam President. I voted negatively because once again, a large part of my colleagues have become accomplices in building the corruption mechanism and perhaps in the course of all that is happening in the last days, it is good to quote to you the first sentence of the second preface of the Bulgarian Slavic History and to tell you: "Oh, you foolish Jew, because you are ashamed to be called a Bulgarian!" [[Voice from GERB: "E-e-e-e!."]] That's right, Mrs. Dukova! If I have to replicate in my negative vote, my colleague Dimitrov, it would be right to tell you that this Law does not vote on conscience and in defence of the interest of the Bulgarian citizens and the state, but is voted on by the party orders. Probably a lot of those who push the button don't even know what they're pushing it for. Now that's a shame! I hope you understand what I'm saying. And to address the opposition, which is supposedly opposition, but in fact becomes an accomplice to corruption with its absence in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u39	Second negative vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u40	Revoting! [[The National Representative shall proceed to the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u41	You've taken the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u42	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u43	Before that, you spoke of supporting...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u44	I didn't, I didn't say anything, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u45	You spoke in support of...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u46	I didn't. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u47	No, you've taken an attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u48	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u49	You're right, Mr. Slavov defends. We're listening to your negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, it is no accident that the entire DPS Parliamentary Group is not in the Chamber, because this is their way of saying that they support no accidental allocation of cases in the KPC. [[GERB lines.]] Yeah, they're gone. And now I want to tell you this. What's the change from the Oresharski office? If it were them, that's the text they would have voted for. What difference does it make that it's not them but us, ladies and gentlemen? That there's a centre-right government, there's no difference. It is this text that would vote that there should be no accidental distribution of cases and that the President of the Commission, whom they would choose, distribute and decide them. That's what they would do. You do what they do today, and then you wonder why such reports come from the European Commission. There'll be twice as much report next time, guys! We, instead of fighting corruption, create conditions for twice, ten times more corruption. How, when we write in this Commission that the President of the Commission will give the cases to whomever the Members want, as he wants and when he wants, and then why do you wonder why there is corruption in Bulgaria? There's nothing to wonder about! It is thus staked in the Law. And another. We wanted so much for there to be an accidental distribution of cases in the judiciary, and why shouldn't there be one in the CDC? Why does that bother you so much? The blunder today, fellow Members, is very serious. I regret that people with whom we work together on other topics with which we try to make different Bulgaria, with which we say that we are better than the Oresharski office, do the same things, or do the same things. I can tell you this. Because I feel good that I voted against it, and when tomorrow is another big scandal, when another heavy remark from the European Commission comes tomorrow, at least I will be able to say that I and my colleagues voted against it today. We're not responsible for this. [[BSP LB.]] We have nothing to do with this case of yours, I'm telling you now. [[Audience in BSP LB.]] But I hope that you will find the strength to correct yourself on this subject, because you have made a very big mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u51	Third negative vote? I won't. We move on to the votes further. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 111 MPs: 40, against 8, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr Karadjov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. We are voting 101 MPs: 45 against 11, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on Mr. Georgi Kadiev's proposal, not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 16 against 30, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the Commission to reject art. 200 by importer, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new art. 200. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 97 MPs: 68 against 6, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the name of Section II "Employment of production" and the new article. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. 201 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 82 against 4, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u52	Under art. 201 under the importer "Removement of the infringement by the person who is responsible.. a proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov: This is the case with the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom of Great Art. 201. The contracting authority may remove the infringement itself until the notification referred to in Article is received. 208, para. 1 for the annulment of the case by the Supreme Administrative Court. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 201, which becomes Art. 202, and in it the words........................................................................................ 208, para. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. 209, para.3. Section III.............................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 202, which becomes Art. 203: "Stop the procedure" Art. 203. (1) An appeal against a decision, act or omission of the contracting authority, with the exception of that against the award decision, shall not suspend the procurement procedure, except where a temporary measure is requested to stop the procedure. (2) A request for a provisional measure shall be made at the same time as the lodging of the complaint. No request shall be made for the imposition of a temporary measure when an appeal is brought against a decision, act or omission of the contracting authority relating to a procedure under art. 79, al. 1, t. Art. 4, Art. 138, para. Art. 1, art. 164, para. 1, t. Art. 3 or 4 or art. 182, para. 1, p. 1. (3) When the appeal has requested the temporary measure under para. 1, the procurement procedure shall cease until the entry into force of: 1. the definition of rejecting the request for a provisional measure, or 2. the decision on the appeal, if the provisional measure is imposed. (4) An appeal against the decision to appoint a contractor shall suspend the procedure for the award of a contract until the final settlement of the dispute, unless prior execution has been made or where the decision has been taken in a procedure opened on the basis of art. 79, para. 1, t. Art. 4, Art. 138, para. Art. 1, art. 164, para. 1, t. Art. 3 and 4 or Art. 182, para. 1, t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Under art. 203 "Projecting on the request for a temporary measure" a proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: Art. 203 is amended as follows: 1. Against this background, the Court of First Instance is replaced by the Supreme Administrative Court. 2. In para. 5 - Three members of the Supreme Administrative Court shall be replaced by five members of the Supreme Administrative Court. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 203, which becomes art. 204. Under art. 204 The preliminary implementation of the decision on the designation of the contractor is a proposal by the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: Art. 204 is amended as follows: 1. Across the board, the competition policy is replaced by the Supreme Administrative Court. 2. In para. The Supreme Administrative Court shall be replaced by a member of the Supreme Administrative Court. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 204, which becomes art. 205. Under art. 205 "Stop the proceedings before the Commission for Protection of Competition" a proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: Art. 205 is amended as follows: 1. Art. 205 is renamed "Stop the proceedings before the Supreme Administrative Court" 2. In para. 1 and para. 2 The Competition Protection Commission is replaced by the Supreme Administrative Court The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 205, which becomes art. 206.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u53	Let's stop. You have the floor for speeches under Articles 201-205 by importer. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We cannot face the machine voting once there is such a block for voting on the Commission's proposals, i.e. the officials who wrote them, but so be it. Article 21 says that the contracting authority may remove the infringement itself until the notification referred to in Article 21 has been received. 208. I don't have the message on my desk. 208, but this is the message that says the file was filed. I'll give you an example. A trafficker, if he catches anyone in violation and writes him a penal order, but before he gets it in the mail... [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Okay, the act, then the prosecution...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u55	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u56	I apologize, Mr. Ivanov, but from where I stand, you replicate me, and I'm trying to save seconds like this by not saying the whole procedure. The penal order is on its way to the intruder. Meanwhile, the intruder, of course, has fallen and is sober. He's calling the punishing authority: I've removed the breach. Then what does the law say? The contracting authority may remedy the infringement itself until the notice of completion of the Commission's action for protection of competition has been received. So if, in the course of the investigation, any employee claims to call the intruder in question and find out that he's going to remedy the breach, there will be no more violation. I think this article needs to be dropped, so I'm making a procedural proposal to drop art. 201 by importer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u57	Here's a line, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Karadjov, I understand that you have set an example from your practice perhaps as a former Chairman of the Transport Commission with criminal decrees, pardons and so on. Maybe it was about motor vehicle drivers. However, this is not the case here, but it is the removal of an irregularity which the contracting authority itself has identified in its procedure. I ask you to be correct when referring to another practice, because I was just impressed by the fact that the decision-making process and the allocation of cases in the Commission for Protection of Competition between the members with examples concerning the Law on Protection of Competition, rather than the Law on Public Procurement, which we are currently looking at. In this sense, in the form of a reply, I ask you to withdraw your proposal, because it really does not correspond to the text that we have proposed as an amendment to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u59	Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Karadjov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u60	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I wouldn't have taken the back if you didn't have a completely misleading thesis in front of you. I am not speaking as the former President of the Commission, but I am giving an example of what is being done. Either way, you're asking me to base an example on the competition...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u61	From the orders, not the competition.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u62	Until the message is received under art. 208. For example, I'm filing a complaint about a trust in fuel...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u63	It's the Public Procurement Act!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u64	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u65	Okay, I'm filing a complaint that there's been a breach of a procedure. Meanwhile, someone on the competition committee's team is calling and saying, "Here's a complaint against you. We haven't sent a message yet, we haven't sent it at all, and we're thinking of sending it to you in a few days. But if you're very grateful, you might get it after you've solved the breach. And by removing the violation, we won't have any reason to file any more on you. 208....................................................................................... So please don't let this room down, because this is a perfect phone racketeering tool from the KPC not to tell you about what.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u66	Here you go, Mr. Bojinov. [[Replications between rapporteur Desislava Atanasova and MP Grozdan Karadjov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u67	Dear Mr President, when examining the last texts, a general discussion between two lines in the ruling majority is drawn up in terms of Articles 200, 201 and the following, which were read by the representing Commission. One defends the texts as they have been imported, and the colleagues who are currently on the right side of me are defending another line that challenges my sympathies and support in the vote I express it. Their argumentation is serious, their rhetoric is impressive. I would even say: what a revolutionary method of speech and behavior and finally a mild political conclusion. They resist, compare with the previous government, deserve a positive assessment and end up together with this political majority that holds up the status quo. Everything you said is true, only to highlight this corruption line, you need to leave a little early. The public resource through power positions goes to a specific beneficiary and from there begins the corrupt scheme, then goes to a certain performer. The procedures that are scheduled here and you dispute must allow this corrupt line to develop because if the order does not go to the respective contractor, the whole scheme is destroyed. I will therefore also support your proposal to drop out of art. 201, and I support your arguments for art. 200, but tell the whole truth that this is about a scheme that has been before, confirmed today, it is corrupt and worthy to be denied. We reject it with our vote and you deny it with your political existence in the ruling majority. It's your move, the other one's just for the audience.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u68	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 71 MPs: 16 against 3, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs under art. 203 by importer not supported by the Commission. Vote 72 MPs: 15 against 6, abstention 51. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs under art. 204 by importer not supported by the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 21, Against 1, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs under art. 205 by importer not supported by the Commission. They voted 73 MPs: 19 against 1, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Grozdan Karadjov for dropping out of art. 201 by importer. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: 28 against 25 abstentions 29. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote Articles 201 to 205, including by importer, which are supported by the Commission and shall find a place in its report after editing, under the numbers 202 to 206 inclusive, as well as the name of Section III. Please vote on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 63 against 11 abstentions 14. Articles 202 to 206, including the Commission report and the name of Section III, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u69	"Section IV - Production for the examination of the complaint'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV. "Study................................................................................ 206. Proposal by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. Art. 206, shall be renamed the Court of First Instance and shall be amended as follows: Art. 206. The Court is not merely limited by examining and discussing the grounds set out by the applicant but is obliged, on the basis of the evidence submitted by the parties, to verify the legality of the act, act or omission of the contracting authority on all grounds. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: Art. 206 to be amended as follows: Art. 206 (1) The rapporteur shall carry out an examination of the circumstances of the complaint, for which it shall be assisted by the Commission's competition authority designated by order of its President. (2) Where the order contains or requires classified information, including with an object in the areas of defence and security, the employees under para. 1 shall be authorised to access classified information to the relevant level as required by the Classified Information Protection Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 206, which becomes Art. 207. "Instructions and expert opinions in the proceedings." Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: Art. 207 is amended as follows: 1. The Competition Protection Commission is hereby replaced by the Supreme Administrative Court. 2. A new para is being created. 5. The court shall, on the request for evidence, rule in closed session within 7 days of the submission of the opinion under art. 200, para. 2 of the supplier. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 207, which becomes art. 208, as in para. 2 words.............................................................................. 214, para. 2, p. Two-six-six-six-six are replaced by two-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. 215, para. 2, p. Two-six-six. "Encouraging the study............................................................................................. Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: Art. 208 is amended as follows: "1." The title of art. 208 is changed by the conclusion of the study. The Judge-Rapporteur shall set the case within a period of not more than one month from the opening of the procurement procedure for value under art. 20, para. 1 and, in other cases, 15 days from the formation of the proceedings, of which the parties are notified in accordance with art. 209. 2. para. 2 and para. 3 are removed. 3. para. 4 becomes a new para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 208, para. 1 and para. 2 the words "the watcher' shall be replaced by the word "the seer'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 208 the following amendments shall be made: 1. para. 1 is amended as follows: After completion of the study, the President of the Commission for Protection of Competition with a resolution scheduled an open meeting for the examination of the claim. 2. para. Two is canceled. 3. para. 3 becomes para. 2 and the words "In 3 days' are replaced by "In 7 days'. 4th para. 4 is renumbered as para. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 208, which becomes Art. 209. "Calling and service of messages"............................................................................................ 209. Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: Art. No. 209, para. 1 and para. 2 is amended as follows: Art. 209. (1) The parties shall be called upon to the addresses referred to in the complaint in accordance with Article 1. 42, para. 1, 3 and 4 of the Civil Procedure Code, the time limit for calling shall be no less than 3 days before the meeting. (2) Where the parties do not provide a fax or an electronic contact address or are not found at the address indicated in the complaint, they shall be deemed to have been notified by publication of a communication on the official website of the Supreme Administrative Court. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 209, which becomes Art. 210. The Commission's meetings on the protection of competition. Proposal by MPs Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the In the title of art. 210 The competition policy is replaced by the court and adopted by the following: The Court of Justice's sittings shall: Art. 210. (1) Where the order contains or requires classified information, including with an object in the fields of defence and security, members of the Supreme Administrative Court which participate in the file examination proceedings shall be authorised to access classified information to the relevant level, as required by the Classified Information Protection Act. (2) The sitting shall begin with the resolution of the preliminary questions concerning the regularity of the procedure. (3) Where the Court considers that the circumstances of the complaint have been clarified, it shall grant the parties the opportunity to comment. (4) Following clarification of the dispute by a factual and legal party, the meeting shall be closed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 210, which becomes Article 210. 211.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u70	That's it. Colleagues, I am opening the debate on Section IV of the complaint proceedings with texts 206 to 210 per importer. Statements? Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As we can see, this Corruption Act will be proclaimed. I have nothing left but to at least explain exactly what is voted on and, of course, if there is anyone who disagrees with this, I would be happy to hear your lines. Please, Madam President, as I have different suggestions on the various articles, to benefit from the right to speak on each of them, because the explanation of this corruption scheme will take some time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u72	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u73	A very gentle and elegant text of art. 206 will tell you how to do a study. What, though, is hidden in the back because we are sitting here for this purpose to find out what the clerk is selling us? I know you're going to vote on the importer, but at least listen: The examination of the file shall be carried out by the designated employees under art. 200, para. 3 and covers the circumstances of the complaint. Do you remember a moment ago when I told you that in art. 200, para. 3 the so-called "Collection Authority" (the Commission for Protection of Competition) becomes an independent regulator, where the President does not simply distribute cases, but defines the employees who will work on the case files? The members of the Commission are another reserved territory, he defines them as monitoring members. Then you will see whether they are watching at all, because monitoring is not exactly what you will be choosing members of the Commission for Protection of Competition soon, but even their monitoring is denied. The President, or the ruler of corruption in public procurement, has already appointed those employees who are the only employees under art. 206 may examine the file and cover the circumstances of the complaint, i.e. everything. Right now you think you're going to vote in art. 206 what powers have the employees designated under art. 200, para. 3. No, you exalt the President of the Commission for Protection of Competition in a sole body, sole judge, head of corruption in public procurement. There are no more members of the Commission for Protection of Competition. 200 eliminates them as functions, they no longer have complaints functions. They can go to conferences, they can go to seminars and symposiums... [[Reply from BSP LB.]] The salary will be paid, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by additional material incentive for them to be mild, and the officials appointed by the President will investigate the cases or circumstances of complaints. Further, in the next statement you will see how they are presented and how the decision will be made. That is, the members of the KPC remain the only authority to listen to the report and, in fact, right there in the decision, you will finally see in the next series of this corruption series, they will see the development of the case for the first time. All the time, it is controlled by employees who are on a contract with the chairman who appointed them and who is their boss. So, who's gonna be in charge of public procurement? The Lord of Corruption in Public Procurement, the Unitary Authority, Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition. You're creating a monster!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u74	You have five minutes per article. 208 The other offer you made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u75	Maybe there's lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u76	Any lines on Mr. Karadjov's statement? [[Laughter and excitement.]] Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u77	However, I see that the majority agrees with me. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u78	Mrs. Chairman! My fellow Member, by agreeing to everything you've said, I'm replicating you. How do you feel in this situation, when the algorithm of corruption is regulated by law, to continue fighting corruption, because it is a priority of your common political formation that supports the government? [[Noise and lines.]] You have revealed the algorithm by which the award of the contract is created by law by selecting the beneficiary here in the selection of the contractor, and remains to distribute the commission, how it will be obtained and who will take it. So this is an essential link to corruption. My line is: how, when this happens now with the rest of the majority, will you continue the fight against corruption in Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u79	Second line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u80	Mr. Karadjov, I disagree with you on this matter. You did not clarify why only one person, or just now "zero people from the DPS were on this topic in the Chamber, and eight MPs voted from the BSP. You are talking about the rulers of corruption, and interestingly why the opposition is absent on the subject of this House and why are there only one statement, quite hesitant and nothing else?! You did not clarify that in plenary, and this is an important issue. Mr. Karadjov, answer: why is what is called the position not in the Chamber and silently agrees with what is happening in the National Assembly?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u81	What's that line? [[Noise and lines by GERB and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u82	Third line, Mr. Bayraktarov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Karadzhov, I strongly disagree with you that, you see, the ruler of corruption would be the chairman of the KPC. No, colleague Karadzhov, the ruler of corruption are those MPs who will empower him to legitimize corruption. Here at the moment are the rulers of corruption, those who with the finger, without even knowing what they are voting for, without even bothering to read, will legitimize corruption. Moreover, you are one of the few in this National Assembly who has read the Public Procurement Act in depth and you should know that after rejecting the possibility to appeal before an administrative court and giving this opportunity to an administrative body, everything has been read, as it is said, and validated. And it comes from officials who don't even know the names that have hidden out there in the deep shadows and offer these texts, which everyone now calmly defines as a law of encouragement, and I will add already: and realization in the legal way of corruption. Tomorrow I wonder what hypocrisy here will be passed anticorruption law?! Well, how is it, since it's legal?! Then you will hear the tales of how the prosecution is guilty, how the court is guilty, which should rule by law. But the law regulates corruption. That's what's sad and shameful! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u84	A hole, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With serious inconvenience, I will have to agree with all three lines. In a sense, these things could not have happened in parliament if it had not been for this blind submission to these texts. These things aren't in directives, colleagues. These things are not written in any directive. Come on, until yesterday we were talking that the European Commission directive was the main reason for voting anbloc. But with regard to the activities of the KPC, it is an authority whose activity in the last two terms is, to say the least, vicious, it is promopolitistic, provocative. Mr. Bajraktarov, before we see guilt in the voters in this Chamber, I would like to draw attention to the BSP colleague, to you and to our group that those we counteract are few, and the DPS directly supports with zero present. Yeah, one came in to see if things were going through, and he left. Yeah, they're coming through. While the DPS votes these corrupt texts with its absence, and you pass them without even wanting to hear a word... I'm really not going to get there, Mr. Bayraktarov, because you said these are the people they're running. In fact, many of those who are outside are the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u86	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u87	Procedure Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u88	Mrs. Chairman! My fellow Members, I am taking the procedure in the manner of conduct, as far as I may suffer from illusion, but when a law is being discussed at second reading, arguments are being made for the......................................................................... I ask you very much, when representatives of parliamentary groups come on stage to get drunk by their voice and use it in favor of some political battle and self-prove, to stop them, because this is wasting time. I fully agree when there is criticism when it is spoken by text, when this text exposes or may be opening the door for corruption, but when qualifications are given to the MPs, I think it is not the job of our respective colleagues to do each other's characteristics. This is the work of the voters who will then vote on the presence, by absence, by policy sequence, by schizophrenia in their political behaviour will judge who deserves and who does not deserve to be elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u89	Mr. Ermenkov, I agree with you that by discussing the texts that have been reported and are subject to vote, it is incorrect to make characteristics, personal qualifications of MPs, but you also agree with me that it is very difficult and I cannot be censorship of stylistics and the way that some MPs are doing this. Procedure in the manner of conduct...... please come in, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since we have spoken of corruption, once again, I would like to ask the honourable President to invite a political person to our extraordinary meeting on Tuesday. I ask that this be put to the vote because when we are discussing texts on which there are no directives, I will argue why there is something more on which there is a negative opinion of the Bulgarian anti-corruption body, of the acting and not of the one we dream of making the panacea in corruption. Isn't that the kind of organ we have?! The Authority is the Center for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption and Organized Crime. He has given a lot of notes sent to Mr. Tomislav Donchev "Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policies." Many of them are in favour of the proposed Bill, but for a large part of the other tests, as for one which is repeated fifteen times in the Law: Is it possible for a political person to come, please, at least in this support me, to explain to us how BORKOR's comments are skipped and for what political reasons?! Maybe there's some new anti-corruption strategy I haven't heard of, or you haven't heard of either? I ask you very much, Madam Chairman, to invite Mr. Donchev to the next session on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u91	I will invite Deputy Prime Minister Donchev to attend our extraordinary meeting on Tuesday. Since Mr. Karadzhov has stated a wish to speak under art. 208, where he has proposed, there will be other MPs, I propose that we interrupt the debate here to continue in the presence of a cabinet minister. We will now take a break until 11:00 when we continue with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u92	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period from 22 January to 28 January 2016 They've come up with questions from: - MP Svetoslav Belemezov to Rumyana Bachvarova - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior, on National Strategy for the Preparation of Preventive Measures for Non-Ethnic Conflicts. The reply should be made in plenary on 5 February 2016; - MP Svetoslav Belemezov to Rumyana Bachvarova - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior, on vision and strategy for reform in the Ministry of Interior. The reply should be made in writing by 5 February 2016; - MPs Miho Mihov and Svetoslav Belemezov to Bozhidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, about a vision for the development of the military industrial complex in Bulgaria. The reply should be made in writing by 10 February 2016; - National Representative Vili Lilkov of Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Environment and Water, on a plan for publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of State on the orders of protected areas under the Habitats Directive and ensuring adequate public discussions. The reply should be made in writing by 11 February 2016; - National Representative Vili Lilkov to Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Environment and Water, on the completion of the process of digitization of protected areas in Bulgaria and the creation of a Public Digital Map of Protected Areas. The reply should be made in writing by 11 February 2016. Written answers for service. Written response from: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Stoyan Mirchev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on six issues from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Dimitar Tanev; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Kirilov Ivanov; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Petar Kadiev; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Neno Vlaikov; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Gunay Hewesmen; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Georg Georgiev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev on two questions from the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Sultanka Petrova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova. We begin with the answers of the Minister of Culture Mr. Vejdi Rashidov. First will ask his question Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov about the financial provision of the Chitalishte activities in the country. It is common with the asking of the National Representative Slavi Binev, about a policy of sustainable development of the Chitalishte network in the Republic of Bulgaria. The general response procedure is: First, the MPs have the opportunity to develop their question, respectively the question. The Minister answers in general. The following are the lines, two supplementary questions concerning the inquiry, a reply of the Minister and a statement of respect for the question by the MP who made the question. We're listening, Mr. Stoyanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, by welcoming you and wishing you strong health, my question to you is dictated and is related to the 2016 budget framework and in particular to securing the Chitalishte activity for this year. As everyone knows, Bulgarian Chitalishtes are the main and traditional cultural and enlightened institutions in the country. Their continuing importance as a public factor for enriching cultural and spiritual life is proof of the traditional cultural, folklore, self-active and enlightening functions of these buildings of Bulgarian culture. During all the decades in their existence, the Chitalishtes have been supported by various helpers, but in financial terms, mostly by the state and municipalities. In this regard and in view of the above, my question to you covers the following: What measures and actions are being taken by the Ministry of Culture regarding the development of the Chitalishte case and whether a larger state financial resource is envisaged in the 2016 budget on the better and more optimal functioning of the Bulgarian Chitalishtes? Last but not least, on what principle is the distribution of the relevant funds and the Chitalishtes in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u94	Mr. Binev, you have the opportunity to develop your question within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, I wish you good health, too. I also wish you courage, courage and objectivity all the things you need. The Chitalishtes represent some of the most important cultural centers in Bulgaria and institutions that have since preserved and developed our traditional values. However, in recent years the Chitalishtes have seemed completely forgotten by the Ministry of Culture and lack of funds, as well as a lack of a comprehensive strategy for their development. In addition, there is a tangible lack of management capacity and human skills, which is a serious obstacle to dealing with the new economic situation. All this is unacceptable and only proves that Bulgarian culture continues to be in a miserable state. I believe that there are sufficient instruments to initiate and finance projects to improve the state of these important cultural institutions for the state. Are you aware of this very serious problem and why nothing is being done so far? I hope there is really a way for this issue to pay attention and from now on things to improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u96	For a common answer within eight minutes there is the Minister of Culture Mr. Vejdi Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u97	Mrs. Chairman! Dear gentlemen Binev, Stoyanov, the main priorities set out in the programs of the Ministry of Culture for support and development of the Chitalishte network are: - institutional strengthening of the Chitalishtes as self-governing cultural and enlightened civil associations based on the current Bulgarian legislation; - expand the scope, content and partnership for the implementation of the National Training Program aimed at improving the qualification of staff in the Chitalishtes and libraries and achieving better management in their work. - broadening the content and social scope of the Chitalishte activities to attract a wider range of the population, including minority communities and people with disabilities; - improvement of the financing mechanism of the Chitalishtes, the allocation of state and municipal subsidies and the implementation of public control, including legislative changes; - technological renewal of the Chitalishte activities based on protected programs and projects. The Ministry of Culture has established and strict rules apply when allocating budget resources to additional subsidised units for the Chitalishtes of the People's Republic of China for the relevant year. At local level, according to the legislation, the principles of democracy apply, and the committees appointed by the mayors of the municipality to determine the funds are included representatives of each community center of the municipality. In accordance with the opportunities, funds are also available for newly opened Chitalishtes, respecting the requirements for applying for the budget subsidy, availability of capacity for work and proven activity. Our activity for the Chitalishtes and all available information related to the distribution of new units in the country is public and is accessible through the Ministry's website, as well as the special information website of the Chitalishtes, which is administered by the Ministry of Culture. For 2016 the state budget has estimated funds to support the development of the Chitalishtes of nearly 53 million. lv. Compared to 2015 the increase is 1 million. 400,000. lv. From its 2016 budget, the Ministry of Culture will contribute financially to the holding of cultural events, folk festivals and rallys in the country, which are mainly realized by the Chitalishtes, whatever activity until 2016 is carried out by the budget of the Ministry of Culture. All events and activities related to the work of the Chitalishtes are financed by the Ministry of Culture. So here I cannot accept that the Ministry of Culture does not care so that the Chitalishtes have their own activities. Possibilities for direct or indirect financing of the Chitalishtes are also provided through the Operational Program "Regions in Growth." The programme will contribute to the development of cultural infrastructure in cities through investment in theatres, community centers, libraries, museums, operas, galleries, exhibition halls and other cultural life-related sites. Measures to support Chitalishtes and libraries are envisaged to be excluded from the planned use of financial instruments and to be financed entirely with grants. During this programming period, four application procedures have been opened under the Rural Development Programme aimed at increasing the competitiveness of farms, promoting social inclusion, providing new jobs, reducing poverty, social inclusion and better quality of life. Cross-border cooperation programmes enable Chitalishtes, in the event of activity, to apply for projects directly funded by UNESCO's European programmes and programmes. Specific objective 2.1 is to improve the sustainable use of natural and cultural heritage and resources. Seminars, trainings, discussions and forums on the issues of Chitalishte activities are held annually in the country, involving experts from the Ministry of Culture. The organizers of these events are the regional expert advisory and information centres of the Chitalishtes, which are under the methodological leadership of the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u98	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Stoyanov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u99	Dear Minister, I thank you for the information provided, it has definitely been useful, even more to people who are directly or indirectly related to the Chitalishte activity. At first glance, this amount that you said was adopted in the 2016 budget. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. from the state subsidy, it doesn't seem small at first glance, but in the end, even as you said, by a million and a half more. In the end, given that the Chitalishtes in the state are around 3500 with 7,500 state-owned, subsidised figures, it is obvious that this amount, above all, goes for remuneration and insurance, namely those state-owned subsidized figures, and real amounts from the state for real, cultural, spiritual and self-employed activity are missing. Yes, indeed the Operational Program "Regions in growth" has such an option and will help possibly relevant projects of the Chitalishtes, but this is definitely not the main one and should not be relied on only on it, even more so, that a large part of these 3500 Chitalishtes are in small settlements. In almost every community center there are also the relevant libraries - wonderful, spiritual and cultural centers. These libraries do not have the means to increase their library fund by buying books. Here, perhaps, is your main commitment and the main commitment not only to you, of course, and to the Union of People's Chitalishtes, and to the respective municipalities, to seek opportunities, perhaps through new legislation, a new Law on People's Chitalishtes, which, with more serious imperative measures in terms of having serious obligations and commitments to Chitalishtes, from the point of view of possibly being implicitly introduced into a new law, possibly some tax relief for all those entities that are aiders and who support the Chitalishtes, because indeed the state currently definitely finances and subsides only those state numbers that are at the present time For a real activity, the self - active, cultural, social and spiritual, money is missing. This is the main commitment of you as the principal of the Ministry of Culture and respectively of all those related to the Chitalishtes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u100	For two supplementary questions, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I have always seen the meaning of parliamentary control in talking openly so that we can point out the problems and remind you how they can be solved. If you listen, you'll get the impression that everything is great, but that's not the truth. We can pass with you, if you want to take a picture where you want a community center, you will see that the community centers, apart from some historical environments, do not meet either the time or the ideas that young people have at the moment. They need to be transformed, quite conceptually meet the weather, fill the needs of young people. Also, money in the hands of people who can't handle it means nothing as a quantity. They can only be wasted or spent or consumed. The point of money is that you have to see the result of them, because the quantity itself can be large... of some can be seen enough or insufficient. Where they do not act appropriately and do not pursue certain results, money itself as a value does not matter at all. They only make sense when certain results are achieved and these results are visible and no one needs to explain them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u102	Here you are for a duplicate and an answer to both questions, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u103	Dear President, Mr. Binev and Mr. Stoyanov! One thing I would agree with is what Mr. Binev just said, with another thing I will not agree, colleagues. Look, when we ask such questions and they're misleading, it's better to prepare. In the previous term alone, this has not happened in 25 years. Six hundred thousand. BGN, in a severe crisis I have signed for the purchase of Bulgarian books and the charging of Chitalishtes. It wouldn't be fair to talk. Under the aegis of the "24 hours" and the c. We donated a million books to the Bulgarian Chitalishtes to the National Library. Where would I agree with Mr. Binev? Yes, the Chitalishtes for many years are unique, there is no analogue in the world, they are centers for maintaining the identity and self-esteem of the Bulgarian state. That's true. There's no other country like this. In time, in the long time, many of them have lost their exact purpose, which says Mr. Binev, and I agree. They have become political, political and enlightened a lot, there are also Chitalishtes that are very active and seriously working, so that the Chitalishtes are going to be updated very seriously, so that they can be accessible to young people, for people to raise their interest. Here I will only remind you of something from the previous term: 15 million. lv. donation to the program of Melinda and Bill Gates, we have implemented almost 50% digitalization of some of the working community centers and 100% of the People's Library. That was one success. Now we have a promise of a job well done, only this is not known to give us another six million. God willing, give us, for this is to be done. Regarding the activities that are there, it is not true that the Ministry does not finance. I can give you every year what events, what festivals, what things related to this to preserve folklore, identity and what concerns the national spirit is financed by the small budget of this Ministry of Culture. There's no Abdication. The truth is, the Ministry doesn't have enough money. I have said it as a minister, and I will say: while the gross domestic product in our Ministry's budget is one percent, we will be among the countries that have the smallest budget in the area of culture. Unfortunately, all these talks are nice, my dear colleagues, with full respect before the Budget Act comes in, because it is the main law of the Bulgarian state, to speak them all together then. Once this basic Bulgarian law has been passed, today we will fight to continue these activities on the basis of what we have, to develop them on the basis of opportunities as much as they are given to us. So let us not blame ourselves just because we say it, but because we have real facts on which we cannot get out of this framework. From now on, you are right that we should update them, be more acceptable, be more attractive to young people and really become Chitalishtes again, because many Chitalishtes there are It's just what we're going to do, but it's a long-term program, and here I'd be happy if we all joined together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u104	For attitude, Mr. Binev two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u105	My attitude will be extremely brief, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, you are complaining about the budget, but you seem to have forgotten that you were not even present when this budget was discussed in the Commission. That's what strong people can see. They're ready to face the crowd, not run after it. Then, when a person really needs to hit the table and say, "That's not enough, I need more money!" He has to do it whether he keeps his own position or it's more important for him to really do the job. In fact, there is the root of the problem, otherwise we can talk here: we are short of money, we are short of money, but they must defend themselves when it is time to be protected...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u106	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u107	...in spite of everything, there shouldn't be any lack of a representative of the Ministry when discussing this problem. That's actually the biggest problem. The easiest thing to say right now is that there's no money. There is no money because there is no person who will hit the table and say: "No, for culture in Bulgaria there should be such funds! I hope you understand what I'm saying. The easiest thing is to complain, the harder it is to really be there when you need to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u108	Next is a question of the National Representative Slavi Binev about the insufferable implementation of the project "Antical cultural and communication complex" and the trend towards increasing the number of unsuccessful restoration projects. You have the opportunity to develop your question, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr. Minister, you are clearly aware that we are passing on the concerns and concerns of people who are dealing with these particular things, so I will try to be as clear as possible, because this is not a subject that is my priority. Unfortunately, your ministry has again not taken matters seriously with our history and with our cultural heritage. The fracturing incompetence of your employees in carrying out the unsuccessful restoration projects raised countless questions, including your competence to lead the ministry. Recently, the implementation of the project "Antical Cultural and Communication Complex" was stopped at the Largo of Sofia, due to fears of total non-confidence with the original appearance of the Roman ruins and their butaphorical upgrades, as well as many other similar projects. The question also arises: is this being done for the sole purpose of absorbing European funds, and everything else remains in the background? When I say 'conquering European funds', I put exactly the meaning in this word because, in fact, the idea of European funds is not to be used, but to invest, that is, to bring more money and not just to be used. My question is: what will the Ministry of Culture take to address these problems; will you initiate checks to name those who are guilty; will they be punished and to what extent are you willing to share their guilt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u110	For an answer, Mr. Rashidov, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u111	Madam Chairman, Mr. Binev! Mr. Binev, you and I are very old friends. I don't know if you still think of me as a friend, I appreciate you infinitely, I know that you are a smart man, many discussions I have led with you. I'm sorry you're asking me a very, very yellow question today. I would like to tell you that the Cultural and Communication Complex is being built on an accepted project created by archaeologists professionally, and by one of the very good architects Kitov, who died, his light soil. One project, which was adopted by a great expert council and the Ministry of Culture, if there is any merit, Mr. Binev, it is that he makes projects, applies through MRRB to absorb some European money so that today the center of Sofia can represent one interest. Of course, the yellow things are the ones that are non-professional, and I won't take them as a professional. No one can come from the street and tell me what my sculpture's finger will look like when it's done by professionals. And you MPs getting into this melody is not honorable, it's unprofessional now. I have great respect for professional opinion. We are strictly carrying out our adopted project and no arrangements for this project have been made. You can't have non-professional people talking about upgrades because upgrades are being done everywhere, and today I'm giving you a picture of me on the Colosseum. It's nice to ask what crimes Italians do with itong. If you don't know, Rome invented concrete. And where you have become archon of the foundations of Santa Maria Maggiore is also made of concrete, Mr. Binev. So, everything can be upgraded, enough to bring information to the time, and nothing so advanced. Yes, we have stopped the subject for a while because we have to respect it now is modern, civil society, but we cannot fail to respect the experts as well. I'll tell you something. We put three doors in there yesterday. Wet processes, minus degrees, 200 workers, scary currents go down, we put glazing on so the workers don't get cold, temporarily. I, as a sculptor, am well aware that archaeology is not from the third century C.E., III and IV century, that this cannot communicate. We make a free space where at the latest one month after passing the admission procedures, all Bulgarian citizens can walk freely. It was the same when I was doing St. Sophia's. He became one of the best museums ever. Now we're quiet! The same thing happened when the horse's legs were cracked and it would have fallen on one of our wise Protestants and killed someone. Today the Horse is there again after so many scandals. [[Applause from GERB.]] The horse is healthy and today calmly protesting will not fall the Horse. The same thing happened when we were returning Shipka 6. Here we are today, Shipka. 6 with notary documents is a fact. The same is happening with Largo will be a wonderful site, carried out on professional projects. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We're not breaking anything. Mr. Binev, I'm giving you a gift. [[shows photos]] What Largo looked like when we were digging about it, and what he looks like now. In a month, when we find him, you'll be happy. I'm finishing up, and I won't answer any more. Where were you the awake civil conscience when you sat in plastic for three years and became a frog?! Instead of praising me today for holding a competition, for putting Largo back to work, you are accusing me of things today. Why?! That I'm trying to... You spit on me for the museum here all right, and now it's the best museum of Bulgaria, like the Reichsmuseum in the Netherlands. And not only do we have nothing to put on the museum we had for another masterpiece museum. Don't! It's not fair to stop working because no one planted a tree! Four years, I'll show you how many objects I've made, and in just one year, seven objects you don't know. There's no publicity, I'm sorry, I'll show them to you. Here you go. [[Passing the photos to the MP Slavi Binev.]] With the utmost respect, I'm giving it to you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u112	The line
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u113	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! I left with an agreement, Mr. Minister, that our job is sometimes to convey the words, vibrations and excitement of society without being competent in these matters in the first place. Secondly, specifically for the Colosseum, I would take measures if I were a member of the Italian Parliament. Look, my point to you is neither to pick a fight nor to provoke you or anything else. You know perfectly well that there are places of historical significance that were made with aluminum dograms because there was money for that. And we've all seen this. There are buildings from the 18th century that are made with aluminum windows. This is really embarrassing, this is really embarrassing! Because at the end of the day, that's where the money came from, or that's what it had to be to be used up and so on. I pay attention to you on this matter, I know very well that compromises must be made, as there are no clear and precise drawings left before or shortly after the new era to be used as absolute assurance that is clear. We all know that the Acropolis has been largely altered several times and hardly everything has been respected properly. I agree with this, but there are things that may not suggest that European funds are simply being used, but that they are being invested in the right direction, Mr. Minister. I'm saying this with all the concern, because that's as far as my jurisdiction goes. And as for what I said, I warned you before that we are actually forwarding the words of people who are concerned and who believe that they are more competent than us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u114	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u115	Thank you, Mr. Binev. I didn't hide my respect for you. I'll just do one more thing. Thank you for saying you were referring to words. They are not professional, Mr. Binev. It is professionally the opinion of all designers, of all archaeologists, of all engineers and architects, who day and night for a year, so as not to lose European funds, work even in severe cold. Their opinion is very important. Every day there are people watching the project, working strictly on the project. And in every intervention of the so-called civil society, to which we have respect, as you can see, we stop to check, we have a discussion. But this slows down an object. It's slowing down! And if that happens, don't let God do it, and I wouldn't want to let this thing lose European money when my Ministry... I'm not complaining that we don't have any money. That is exactly what I said that when the budget was adopted, I was in the Committee on Culture and that is exactly what I was saying, which you hear, that until it becomes 1% of the gross domestic product, and all the topics of interviews are that, I will not be calm about the theatres, neither about the cinemas, nor about the 160 secondary officers in this heavy Ministry, along with the monuments of culture. We're no different here either. That's what I think here, too. But all this we had to say just before the Budget Act passed. I've been there, I've been here when the law was passed. Yes, that's how you voted the MPs, and that's how we accepted it. So I beg you very much not to reproach me! And as for this, give some more time, the centre of Sofia from the frog who sat for three years and no one noticed it today to have a wonderful center. Now I want to tell you one more thing: all Pompeii has been upgraded, colleagues! There is no such law anywhere against this upgrade. I agree with you. While Oresharski was in power, they made Pernik plastic and ruined him! I wouldn't have let that happen as an artist! [[Applause from GERB.]] I've studied academy, I've studied restoration, and conservation as majors, and there's no... Of 40,000 monuments and archaeologists...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u116	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u117	Can we have quiet in the hall? Minister Rashidov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u118	That was done before.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u119	And before that, Mrs. Kandulkova was responsible, but not the Minister of Culture. If I was there, I wouldn't let that happen. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u120	And Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u121	I'm not picking on you, please, but this is plastic. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u122	Do not enter, dear colleagues, into altercations!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u123	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u124	We're in another procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u125	I'm not messing with you. I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u126	Thank you, Minister. [[Relations between MPs from BSP LB and Minister Vejdi Rashidov.]] Can we have quiet in the hall? The next question to Minister Vejdi Rashidov is from the MP Borislav Iglev on the demolition of a cultural monument in the town of Haskovo. Here you are, Mr. Iglev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister Rashidov, I am glad that you are here and that you are in good health. I also wish you very good health throughout the year! Last year, July 2015, the building of the former prison in Haskovo was demolished. The old prison, which is more than 100 years old, is a monument of culture of national importance. The former mayor and then municipal council say they didn't know it was a monument of national importance. According to them, the prison building collapsed itself and the excavators just cleaned out the debris. According to the Ministry of Culture, the Law requires that each municipality know and have the list of cultural monuments located on its territory. According to the text of the Cultural Heritage Act in force since 2011, in the event of the destruction of real cultural value, the owners or users are obliged to restore it in the same form with the original dimensional parameters and architectural, and artistic characteristics. The Ministry of Culture and the Prosecutor's Office appointed a check regarding the demolition of the prison in Haskovo. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what have the results of the inspection shown? Will the municipality of the Ministry of Culture be obliged to rebuild the site as provided by the Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u128	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister, please come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u129	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Iglev, this is a good question as far as it should be a good answer, because both you and I are concerned about this object. I don't know if you know that I was born in Dimitrovgrad and grew up in Haskovo and my entire family is from Golemantsi, Haskovo. So Haskovo is not an indifferent city. In relation to information about the destruction of the prison building in Haskovo, the Ministry of Culture carried out a check where the following was established. By order No 514 of 14 May 2015, the mayor of the municipality ordered the demolition and removal of buildings on the property, including that of the Haskovo prison. The building's been knocked down and the ground's clear. You just said he didn't know, I don't know if he knew he was mayor. Every mayor should know the monuments of culture. It's not an artistic act. The act was initiated in pre-trial proceedings No 105 of 2015 according to the description of OD Ministry of Interior Haskovo. The inspection in the Scientific Documentary Archive of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage established: In 1969 the PPC prepared a scientifically motivated proposal for the Haskovo prison, which does not contain an assessment of the scientific, historical, architectural and artistic value of the property as required by the Act on Cultural Heritage until 2009. In issue 36 of the Official Gazette of 8 May 1970, the Haskovo prison was declared a historical monument of culture of national importance. In accordance with art. 71, para. 2 of the Cultural Heritage Act in the event of the destruction of real cultural value due to the failure of the obligations laid down in the Law, the owners are obliged to restore the cultural value and the period of restoration is determined by the Ministry of Culture. In order to carry out the procedure, it is necessary to establish that the necessary care has not been taken to maintain the cultural value and that the competent authorities have not been notified of any damage in due time. The restoration should be performed in original form with the original bulk spaces, parameters and architectural artistic characteristics. For this purpose, graphic-text photodocumentation should be provided reflecting the original dimensional parameters and architectural characteristics. In the presence of these data, there will be a legal basis for the Minister of Culture to set a deadline for rebuilding the building, as established by the National Documentary Archive at the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. There is no such documentation at this stage. The owner of the building should also take over the financing, as under the law the recovery is his duty. Upon completion of the criminal proceedings, the Ministry of Culture will decide on the administrative responsibility of the perpetrator under the Culture Act. We are waiting for criminal proceedings and, of course, we have already taken measures and made the remarks that are necessary from the verification. We'll be in character. Yes, the prison must be restored as it was in its authentic form. That's what the law requires. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Iglev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u131	Minister Rashidov, thank you for the comprehensive answer and that you are so concerned about cultural monuments not only in Haskovo region but also throughout Bulgaria. Indeed Haskovos listen with interest to your response and I hope they will be happy with the full answer you gave that the cultural monument will have to be restored with the same volume architectural values as it was. The Ministry of Culture will also need to address most municipalities and, in particular, Haskovo for more maintenance of cultural monuments, to be responsible for the cultural heritage bequeathed over the years so that we will never again witness such unprincipled shares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u132	Thank you, Mr. Iglev. Mr. Minister, do you want the floor for the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u133	I think we're out of...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u134	Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions to the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Mr. Tomislav Donchev. The first question is from the MP Slavi Binev on the criticisms of the European Court of Auditors to the Republic of Bulgaria regarding poor absorption of European funds and non-compliance with the rules for procurement. Here you are, Mr. Binev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! The European Court of Auditors said that the Bulgarian state is significantly behind in the absorption of European funds for the first programming period. A number of violations in the process of absorption of funds have also been reported. According to the announced report, Bulgaria is a benchmark for ignoring public procurement rules. I've alerted myself to the existence of this problem many times. These findings contradict the Prime Minister's desire to make significant progress in the absorption of European funds. In addition, it has been noted that there is a need to make serious changes by all actors responsible for managing EU funds in order to achieve better results in the future. Bulgaria is no exception to this, and the government should take the necessary action to prevent the deterioration of the situation. What is your opinion on the 2014 Annual Report of the European Court of Auditors, i.e. the first programming period? What is the reason for the gap between the data of Bulgarian and European institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u136	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mr. Donchev, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u137	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Binev! If I were to answer to you as a politician with a typical cut, I would tell you that these are data for 2014, when I have had responsibilities to the entire system of managing EU funds within a month. Except I'm not gonna answer you like that. In an effort to be precise and with attention to detail, I will allow myself to mark from the report the cases where Bulgaria is mentioned. Because they, to a certain extent or even largely get away with what you said. It is stated for 2014 Bulgaria's lag on the so-called instruments of finance change, or instruments of financial change, and the exact text is:?Especial problems with financial instruments were found in five countries - Bulgaria, Greece, Spain, Romania and Slovakia. That's in box 6.5. In Box 7.6, it is written: Non-compliance with public procurement rules has also been established in Bulgaria Later, in Box 7.7, comment is made on how the system of identification of agricultural parcels works and is recorded: "The Court of Auditors' checks have found that effective collective action has been taken and the system of identification of agricultural parcels has been improved and updated regularly. The quality of the on-the-spot checks has also been improved. In the same box it is written: The Commission's Odites confirm that the corrective actions carried out in Bulgaria, Portugal and Romania have improved the system. With this, I do not want to belittle all the findings that are in the report. Unlike audit institutions, which at the level of the specific should detect a specific error or irregularity in procedures, reports and national, and the European Court of Auditors have the character of a strategic document and this is precisely how we read the recommendations, even though it is a past period. All weaknesses, both with regard to the implementation of agricultural instruments and the implementation of operational programmes, have always, not only in the last year, been of attention except at operational action level, i.e. an order, each managing authority and each control body to do its job better, and systemic measures and errors to be less, and the volume of payments to be greater. As for differences, we can't talk about differences. These are data from 2014, and we are currently in early 2016. If we comment on the data we have at the moment, because they will be processed more weeks, if not months, Bulgaria will complete its first programming period, especially according to the operational programs, depending on the method of calculation. There are two methods: one is to calculate the percentage of the available budget, which was available, the other method is to calculate it according to the budget available at the beginning of the programming period. The difference is that for 2013 and 2014 funds are released under the automatic release of funds and the starting amount of 8 billion. 19 million. EUR has been reduced, i.e. the amount available that we have worked with has been 7 billion. 758 million, from which payments continue to arrive and 7 billion have been paid. 600 million. Compared to the single method of calculation, the final volume of payments is 98%. According to the calculation of the initial budget base, the volume of payments is 96%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u138	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! You know that a very specific administrative European slang is used in the European institutions, which makes us read between the lines, and really many times must be analyzed the things that are being done because they respect some protocol phrases that can sometimes even be reversed and called praise. But we know perfectly well that sometimes there are criticisms in them. My question is about paying attention and not repeating the mistakes that were made during the first period. We have spoken to you and I fully take into account that there have been errors in the first programming period, from which conclusions must be drawn. In fact, if you recall, in the subcommittee we had done a complete dissection of the problems that existed in the previous programming period. Unfortunately, there wasn't a lot of media to be interested in her, and I don't know for what reason, but she couldn't seem to get civility, and maybe she was the most important product that came out of our subcommittee. At least, that's what I think. One of the most important things is that largely one sentence can summarize the problems. This is ignoring public procurement rules. They're all different. I'm not saying it's all the Ministry's fault or it's your responsibility. Here perhaps you should bear in mind that it was at the beginning that it was perfectly normal to make mistakes in development, but they should not be repeated in any case. Because then they may be thought to be targeted. The biggest problem is that when statistics are made, sometimes the money given to companies is taken into account, but are actually reimbursed by Brussels. That's where the big differences come from, by the way, which are sometimes fracking, and actually both sides are right. But the real money is only the ones that have been recovered or reimbursed from Brussels, because it is the money that is actually taken as European funds. Thank you for your answer and I hope you will take this as a reminder that the problems should be discussed. We have had a dialogue on this matter, and I think it was only fruitful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u140	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u141	Mr. Binev, I would like to make just two clarifications by thanking you for your concern regarding the quality of the work of the control system, as well as the pace of payments. Any kind of concern.. whether it comes from a company, validating, or coming from critical positions, is useful and I have always said that the more people are interested in this problem, the better. First clarification. For the old programming period are realized nearly 12 thousand projects of thousands of different beneficiaries and municipalities, and companies, and non-governmental organizations and state institutions. With such a large volume of institutions, it is perfectly normal to make mistakes, claiming that most of them are involuntary. There's no shortage of those where there's an element of malice. In each Member State there shall be errors, either arbitrary or arbitrary. That's not a problem in itself. The problem is how the control system reacts, and I wouldn't worry if there were mistakes, it's happening. I would be worried if there was a mistake that the control system missed. The efforts we are making are precisely in this direction to ensure that no errors are detected or unsanitary. You yourself probably have a memory of the Commission's debates that the main focus of the efforts is to find the mistakes before they caused the effect or, as one Irish expert once said, his reply years ago sounded very strange, but now it is quite understandable: Finding the mistakes before someone else found them. This one, first. Secondly, regarding the differences between payments and the so-called ones, as you have said, "reimbursed funds." If the system is managed adequately, at some point internal payments, those made in the Member State in respect of beneficiary institutions, as a percentage, not as a net amount, because there is also co-financing, must be aligned with the funds that the Commission has reimbursed. It takes time. First the payment is made, then the funds are verified, then certified and sent for approval or reimbursement by the Commission. Specifically, for the old programming period, I expect this process to last for a few more months, when, in simpler terms, we can settle the bill. I sincerely hope that what the Commission has reimbursed to us for the old programming period will make no difference or that there will be no significant difference from what we have paid inside the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u142	Thank you, too. The next question to Mr. Donchev "Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy" is from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov on readiness to hold a machine vote in the elections for President and Vice President in 2016. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u143	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Paragraph 10 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Election Code for President and Vice President in 2016 provides for the conduct of a machine vote in parallel with the classic paper ballot vote in all sections of the country. Personally, I have been voting in my section in Sofia for seven years experimentally and pilotly voting with a terminal machine. In each of these cases, my vote has been successful, the result has been valid and credible, there has been no problem so far! Several pilot projects have been carried out, as I said, each of them has been pretty successful. On a previous question to you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you said that the budget of the Council of Ministers would allocate resources to buy the necessary machines and terminals so that the machine voting for the Presidential elections would be provided resourcefully. Our question to you is this: have the necessary preparatory action been carried out so far? Will there be an information campaign for the Bulgarian citizens, because no matter how accessible and clear the machine voting is, still some information campaign needs to be conducted? Will the necessary machines and terminals be provided in time? Will they be deployed in time across the country? Why am I asking you all these questions? Changes to the Election Code are pending, and I want to be sure that the National Assembly also makes sure that the preparation for a machine vote for the presidential elections is going well, the necessary action is taken and there is no reason to postpone the procedure. Let's not put it off this time. Let the practice of carrying out sacks in the elections, including from our fellow MPs, let this practice be stopped once and for all! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It is clear that it is a machine, in parallel with the usual conventional vote. However, this is the future and must be the characteristic of a modern government and a modern ruling majority. That is why we are counting on you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, to implement this text. People will understand today that the future presidential elections will be voted on, including terminals in all sections of the country, as is done in modern countries around the world.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u144	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u145	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, if I were to give you a perfectly brief answer, I would tell you that the issue is in the specific texts of the legislation, especially in the Election Code, and not in operational actions by the government. Since I suspect that such a brief answer would hardly satisfy you, I will allow myself to enter the specifics of the text. The provisions of the Election Code mentioned by you § 10 of the Transitional and Final Rules of the Election Code determine that until the election for President and Vice President of the Republic in 2016, with the exception of the general elections for municipal councillors and mayors in 2015, the machine voting provided for in the Code is experimental and takes place in up to 500 polling stations. Those sections shall be determined by the Central Election Commission no later than five days from the date of expiry of the relevant selection. I would just like to remind you that up to now, for the last three choices, machine votes have been made, two of which were experimental and one were real, namely, in the elections for MEPs with 100 machines; in the elections for MPs in 2014 with 300 machines; in the elections for municipal councillors and mayors in 2015 with 50 machines. The cost of machine voting shall be a function of the number and distribution of the engine voting sections determined by the CEC. From there on, according to the commitments it has, in particular, the administration of the Council of Ministers is obliged to ensure, as it has done so far, to provide, buy or rent the relevant machines and place them in the respective sections together with the counting system. Nevertheless, and in relation to your question, I would like to inform you that, under § 11 of the Transitional and Final Rules of the Election Code, in the elections for President and Vice President of the Republic in 2016, the machine voting will take place not in all sections, but again in the Simply put, according to the current texts, there is a ceiling of up to 500 sections in which machine voting can be announced. In accordance with the powers conferred on the Central Election Commission, in whatever sections it considers, decided, wherever it decides to hold a machine vote, the administration of the Council of Ministers is able to allocate the necessary funds and carry out the necessary logistics for the deployment of the equipment. If, in the meantime, the National Assembly makes another decision, within the framework of the available budgets, the administration of the Council of Ministers and the other departments will not. In the short time I have left, allow me to repeat the position I have spoken before. We need to look not only for a wider application of machine voting, more or less it is a transitional, complementary phase, the future is the electronic vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u146	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Slavov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I will not go into the details of paragraphs 10 and 11 of the Election Code. The engine vote is signed in this Code. The lawmaker's will is to introduce it at the moment when the administration is ready and the citizens are ready to vote in this way. I think that we should focus our efforts on you, as the executive, as a representative of the executive, and, of course, the National Assembly, because, as my colleague Dimitrov addressed, changes are imminent in the Election Code. If there are assurances on the part of the executive, the administration that there will be ready everywhere to hold a machine vote in parallel with the standard way of counting, then there is no problem that this possibility will also be scheduled for the upcoming presidential elections. By the way, they are an appropriate start for the ubiquitous introduction of machine voting, because they are a relatively lighter type of election than the others we know are much more complex. I will also step on what you said in the end, and I very much liked that it could also be linked to the electronic vote. It is expected by many Bulgarian citizens - nearly two million voted in favour of the electronic vote. It is the engine vote that will give answers, and I hope that it will convince the public and those fellow citizens of ours who have some reservations about e-voting that it is indeed the future and the way things are going to happen quickly, transparently and clearly, without any doubt about manipulation, including things that we at the right have always insisted on for majority, as a binding element to be expanded in the various kinds of elections. Through the Preference, the machine voting is a wonderful way for every preference of every Bulgarian citizen to be properly evaluated and accounted for because we know that in the last elections many people complained that their preferences had not been counted. It's a kind of disregard for their vote. I don't think I need to convince you of all these arguments. I would rather offer you an effort to join forces, and if we, as representatives of the legislative power, can give the necessary support to the performers, the administration, the machine voting hour rather than happen and stop being experimental for another year, I do not know which year, but to start entering effectively and, God forbid, be everywhere for the presidential elections! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u148	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you don't want a line. The next question is from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov on the report for the 2007 programming period and the vision for the 2014 programming period of the operational programmes of the European Union in the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Ivanov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question is about the 2007 programming period and the vision for the programming period 2014 - 2020 in the Republic of Bulgaria. At the end of last year, most of the investment projects that were financed under the operational grant programmes were completed in the old programming period. Between 2007 and 2013 different projects were submitted by the Bulgarian municipalities, state institutions and mostly business. The purpose of the operational programmes is in the initial financing of projects which later business and municipalities will take on and further develop by benefiting from the initiatives implemented. For the successful development of the economy, transport infrastructure, the environment, regional development, improvement of administrative capacity and the development of human resources the Bulgarian beneficiaries had the opportunity to apply with projects under the seven operational programmes. My specific question to you is: what is the account for the first programming period, which is realized in the Republic of Bulgaria? What is the total amount of the European funds used by the Bulgarian beneficiaries? Has there been an analysis with the strengths and weaknesses of the old programming period? And what is the vision for work during the new programming period to avoid old mistakes and beneficiaries having security and support from the administration for the successful implementation of their investment projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u150	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u151	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, your question is extremely good, but I am afraid that we have it in an incorrect parliamentary genre, since the parliamentary control procedure does not give the necessary time in the depths in which it is necessary to do such an analysis. We can begin the discussion on the subject which, I am convinced, on another occasion will be led in parliamentary committees in the coming months. When we comment on the effect of European money, we need to separate a few layers. The first, the easiest analysis is the level of money. Directly on the question you have asked, I inform you that the total amount of payments under the operational programmes and under the Rural Development Programme amounts to 10 billion. 800 million. EUR, or 98% of the budget available, not the original budget. As I said earlier, the initial budget is slightly lower. The net financial position of the country is the difference between what our country has put into the EU budget and what it has received, calculated at the moment, paying attention to the fact that the data is dynamic, as far as we are still processing payments, is 5 billion. Euros. At the moment, we have stated a refund to the European Commission of 7 billion. Seven hundred million. euros, and in the coming months we will continue to send invoices, as I said just now, and I hope they will all be recovered. What is my assessment of this result? The excellent result is 100% payments. In any event, a result of over 95 " 96%' should be assessed as very good. I don't want to compliment the administration in any way, on the contrary. They did extremely serious work in 2015, but this result is due to all the institutions that participated in the process and municipalities and companies and NGOs. This is the result of Bulgaria. The second, more fundamental question is: what is built, what is the result, what is the product of these billions of investments? To save time, here at the bank I'll leave you some references [[shows them]] These are indicators in terms of what is built, such as kilometers, as numbers and, above all, in terms of the number of persons it affects. And here, as a graphical and as a tabular application [[shows]] , I will show you our calculations related to the effect of European money. We make them with a macroeconomic analysis tool called SIBILLA, comparing the scenario to the presence without European money, and thus we manage to crystallize the effect of European money. Trying to keep it short...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u152	You have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u153	We see a positive impact in terms of practically every macroeconomic indicator: both in terms of investments, public and private, and in terms of other factors such as employment, unemployment rates, of course, with a reverse sign. Details are available in the Annex. The next levels when we talk about the effect. This is the effort to maximize the effect of any investment, simply put. Making a bridge or building a highway or renovating a school still doesn't mean you've done something useful. A good investor must calibrate, adjust the situation of the investment at the right time, in the right place, according to the needs that exist, and at the right time, of course, this is the great art. Here the administration at different levels still has something to learn. I am convinced, from the experience gained over the last eight years, that we have all become better. I hope at all that we will not see any more cases like we had at the beginning of the programming period. For example, a built pool or renovated in a school building, but there is no money to be filled. In the present case, the cost of example 3 million. lv. It's no effect. Every penny of them brings no benefit to anyone if the pool is not used. The other, the more complicated part of the exercise. As the former Commissioner for Regional Policy used to say, "What is the mix of policies', which fund in which sector how much money to be invested, what percentage of funds that go for road, railway infrastructure, social sphere, education or support small and medium-sized enterprises?" This is really the top piloting. I sincerely hope that based on the accumulated, including traumatic, experience we have from the first programming period, the next one is planned much more adequately. Mostly to have the necessary synchronization between one type of investment and another. I'm trying to simplify. It's stupid to repair a kindergarten or a school building. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , to be heat-insulated, the premises to look much better and the staff inside not to be qualified enough not to provide a quality pedagogical service. Then the effect is incomplete. I sincerely hope there is an opportunity within the procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u154	You've got a duvet, you've got five more minutes to finish the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u155	I leave these materials at your disposal. [[Leaves them in the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u156	Mr. Ivanov, two minutes for two supplementary questions, after which Deputy Prime Minister Donchev will further develop his thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm satisfied with your answer. I would like to add very briefly that it is very important that the old mistakes are not repeated in the new programming period. Where we have projects where obviously the funds have been spent indecently, what you mentioned about the pool should not be repeated in the current programming period. I am also pleased that there is great activity on the part of the business, on the part of the beneficiaries to the new schemes. The first invitations, which started and already ended, showed an extremely large number of submitted projects, which means that the Bulgarian business has already learned that there is already an interest in the schemes and this minimizes the danger of failure of funds. We all know that these funds are extremely important for municipalities, for businesses to be able to create sustainability, to be a prerequisite for creating new jobs and reviving those deserted, backward regions of our country where it is extremely important to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u158	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have three minutes to develop what you started, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u159	Dear Mr. Ivanov, there is no need in agreement to repeat the same things. I'd rather add to the hierarchy of challenges what lies ahead of us from now on. To manage the funds legally, not to allow violations, is only the basic level. It is the foundation over which it can be built. On the point of not repeating old mistakes, I think we've learned everything we need to learn here. I was commenting on the levels after that. The two, the last, the worst challenges, are: firstly, we are talking about European funds, only they are 8.9% of our public spending, a relatively small share of 4 per cent or about 4 per cent of gross domestic product, and at the same time 80% of public investment. We are commenting with you on what a powerful effect they have. The next challenge is to learn the funds we spend from the budget, those from taxes, to spend in the same way and with the same effect as we spend European money. This must be a task that stands before all of us in the coming years. At some point, there should be no difference in the way we treat European and national money. In the end, they are of the same status as public funds. Secondly, to break up with the consumer attitude towards European money. That's why I don't like the term "adventure." Focus on this with one euro or one lev of European money how much money left do we drive? Here the key role is financial engineering. In the last programming period was a modest percentage, in 2014 the 2020 is 10% of the entire financial framework. Of all the talks have just begun, with what cohesion policy will look like after 2020, surely its share will be greater, more than 10%. This is a relatively new art for many players, especially for public institutions, and we have to go all the way, to be as prepared for it as possible. Thirdly, it is often speculated on the topic....it is not foreseen that EU funds will disappear after 2020. But in a slightly larger horizon, because I do not want to think a year or two ahead, horizon 2026 "2027," only thinking and action on this horizon should start now. We need to start thinking and acting according to the scenario, at which at some point Bulgaria will not lose, but will significantly reduce the volume of funding. And if we're smart enough, we need to be ready for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u160	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Ivanov, would you like an attitude? You don't want to. This was the last question for you in this parliamentary control. Have a good job! We continue with questions to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov. The first question is from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov about the project Open medical pools for children and adults in Philial "Sandanski," of Specialized Hospitals for Rehabilitation. Here you are, Mr. Stoyanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary! Specialized hospitals for rehabilitation "National complex" EAD is a state-owned company with the principal Ministry of Health. Part of this company is the Sandanski branch. It has a good material base, a bed capacity of 180 beds and a year-round use of the healing sanatorium of over 6,000 people per year. All of this shows its need and effectiveness in order to treat a significant number of diseases. The Sanatorium in Sandanski specializes in the treatment of diseases related to the musculoskeletal system as well as peripheral nervous system. This is also the reason why the state-owned company prepared and submitted for approval in 2008 the project "Open medical pools for children and adults" needed for the Sandanski branch. Several years later there is no positive movement of this project and the company imports it again in 2013. The project is important and necessary, as well as appropriate, because its implementation and construction of these healing pools, on the one hand, would significantly increase the health capacity of the establishment, and on the other, will lead to even more effective treatment for those who need it. A favorable and additional useful factor is the presence of healing mineral water in the sanatorium in Sandanski, which makes these pools even more necessary and useful. In this regard, Mr. Minister, my question to you is as follows: what are the reasons why the project to build these healing pools in Sandanski's sanatorium is not realized and is there any possibility for its implementation at a later stage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u162	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Moskov, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoyanov, in connection with your letter regarding the possibility of financial provision of a request of Specialized Hospitals for Rehabilitation $435,000. lv. In 2013, the medical institution provided the Ministry of Health with a targeted funding of 3 million. 328 thousand. 737 BGN, including for the site "Open medical pools for children and adults" for which your question is, worth 426 thousand. BGN 234, i.e. this is the value of the project in question for open medical pools, which mainly concerns your question. In 2013, the Ministry of Health, according to the priorities requested by the management of Specialized Hospitals, provided the lv. As the medical institution has not mastered the funds within the prescribed deadlines, they have been reimbursed in the budget of the Ministry of Health at the end of 2015, as required by law and discipline, they should have been restored earlier. Why and how these funds have not been used is the subject of my questioning to the management of the entire SBI and, if at local level there is any problem related to the specific management, they will be changed. In 2015, the management of Specialized Hospitals and Rehabilitation, a request was submitted by the National Complex for the provision of capital funds amounting to a total of 5 million. 836 thousand. lv. for sites, respectively, the branch of Kyustendil, the balneosanatorium; the children's sanatorium in Hisarya; the construction of physio-therapy, the branch of the Banite; the new unit of operation of the branch of Banya. lv.; reconstruction of an advisory-diagnostic block for accommodation of patients worth 800 thousand. lv. The numbers are here and you will get them in your answer. The Ministry of Health is aware of the need for realization of the facility for funding "Open medical facilities for children and adults" in the Sandanski branch. In view of the limited possibilities of the Ministry's capital expenditure budget, opportunities will be sought in 2016 to carry out the project together with the Board of Directors of the company, according to the presented vision for management of the SBR. A few words outside the formality of the response.. this vision of management, presented and exquisite in the first half of last year by the management of the SBI, actually separates the different properties, the different bases that the company has, to those who are willing to develop and continue, to those who need additional funds, such as Sandanski's subsidiary, and to third ones, which have been abandoned for years and years. There are affiliates where, what can I say, trees grow in pools and these trees are big already. [[Heckling]] Older trees give birth, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u164	Mr. Genov, please don't say any lines. The answer is to another MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u165	We do what is necessary from the point of view of the joint document together with the Ministry of Tourism for Development and this kind of balneotourism. In relation to opportunities for using funds from other European countries, we have done what is necessary. There are strategic documents in this regard. One of the main objectives in terms of [[the President signals that time has run out]] This complex, indeed, is to be filled with new content, because Sandanski and the other affiliates have in them the unique natural characteristics not for Bulgaria, but for the whole of Europe, and must be used as much as possible. This will bring revenue both for local people and for the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u166	Mr. Stoyanov, a line? Take advantage of her!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I really thank you for the information presented, even the one that was outside the protocol response. It is useful in order to clarify the factual situation and the reasons for the non-realization of this project. The fact is that these pools are not just in Sandanski, of course, and where they are, they are not some kind of commercial or attractive swimming pools. They're really healing pools, for health purposes. Some opportunities should be sought for applying in the new programming period in order to enable similar needs both in Sandanski's sanatorium, as you said in Kyustendil, and elsewhere, to be satisfied. On the other hand, this will increase the health capacity of the establishments concerned and probably also the financial capacity that each of these sites needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u168	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov. Mr. Secretary? You don't want to. [[Noise and lines.]] A statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Here you go, Mr. Mikov. You have the floor for speech on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! What is happening in the education system is a typical visible result of the management of GERB management and policy, driven by previous government, policy, waged and financed by at least ten million leva, and it is high time the names of those experts who move back and forth the Slavonic history, Botev, Vaptsarov, Smirnenski, who deboned the backbone of Bulgarian education. This policy ignores national interest, chaos and fear among citizens. The harmful Law on pre-school and school education calls into question the development and future of Bulgarians as a nation with a common national self-consciousness, but also the possibility of children to have an equal chance of development and realization of life. The problems in the Law cannot be presented as surprising. It's a good thing society understands that, too. More and more parents, children, the public will feel what GERB serves as a policy in secondary education. We warned about them repeatedly. [[GERB lines.]] They warned teachers, parents, public. Therefore, the Prime Minister's reaction to the Law cannot be timely today, months after we have named the problems for which the ministers are asked for resignations now. [[GERB lines.]] Moreover, the Minister himself is not an importer of a bill. And if the names of the experts who mastered the millions of Europe to make this mess in secondary school [[GERB lines]] , are not yet known to the general public, the names of these 39 MPs are not known among them: Milena Damyanova, Cornelia Marinova, Snezana Dukova, Irena Kotseva, Galya Zaharieva, Lachezar Ivanov I will not read them all. To know parents and children the mess in education who made it by name. Dear MPs, today we call from BSP left Bulgaria again those who stole the education from the Bulgarian children to return it to where it belongs and stop these laboratory business exercises with education because it is harmful for the Bulgarian nation, it is also harmful for your children, not only for the children whose parents today erupt at a protest on social networks. What does it mean that each school based on the relevant framework or type of study plan will develop a school curriculum according to the interests of its students and opportunities? If there are five gym teachers, then probably half the program will only be gymnastics or singing or painting, not that there is no need for these subjects. Dear Members of the National Assembly, education is not a service as you consider it, it is not a business around which a number of companies have bet to benefit from the education of Bulgarian children, but is a good, constitutionally fixed. The right to education is an inalienable human right, and it must be guaranteed by the state for each child, for each citizen under equal conditions to give equal opportunities to the Bulgarian children. We from BSP left Bulgaria are convinced and continue to assert that it is important for every Bulgarian to preserve the social character of the Bulgarian education established by the Liberation until today through the Law on People's Education, which you have crossed out from the Bulgarian legislative history, from the time of Vazov and other ministers, from the time of the structuring of the Bulgarian nation in the Third Bulgarian State. As a result of the Law today we have: the only reform in education is the elimination of authors and works. The history of Slavano-Bulgarian, Botev, Smirnenski, Vaptsarov are dropping out. Under the pressure of society they come back unknown when, unknown where, unknown how they will become known to the Bulgarian students in school. Whole periods of Bulgarian history are dropped because of the political correctness of today's government because we need to be gentle, kind, not to read the turbulent verses of Botev and Vaptsarov. Practically, the Law regulates commercial practices with numerous textbooks, printers, and especially with profits around them. You regulated the home education with which you brought back the Bulgarian people's education in the 19th century when there is no independent Bulgarian state. The problem with home schooling is another. If a school can sanction the preaching of radical Islam, how will it control a society, is such training not carried out at home?! Dear Members of Parliament, you have predicted that primary education is completed in seventh place instead of eighth grade in order to drop fewer students. And currently there are 12% dropouts in Bulgaria. Well, if they go to fifth grade, they'll probably drop out even less, but what's bothering you is the constitutional provision, and that's why you decided you could learn till tenth grade, but you'll get an eighth grade diploma. What madness in this Law that you have poured on the heads of Bulgarian citizens? Dear MPs, we are convinced that in the current contradictions in society and in the current socio-economic picture, it is necessary for the school to have social and educational functions, because you are all watching on television aggression on the streets, aggression at school, aggression at any place where people gather. Well, doesn't it make sense for the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian society and especially the Bulgarian school to participate in this educational process, which will slightly affect what happens and watch on TV shows every night?! We do not accept the control of secondary education to be carried out politically with the Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers, built on a purely political principle, because this politicisation and pressure on teachers, on directors will lead to nothing but a new parting of the system, which we had forgotten. Dear MPs, clear commitments, rights and responsibilities of the state, municipalities, society, family are needed to know teachers, parents what awaits them from this Law with three hundred and fifty texts, from this Law, which teachers and parents will have to learn for sure in the next 10 years of unsold regulations, which will yet reveal new and new pages of that political understanding included in the idea of this Law against those 10 million. BGN, European money used. Dear MPs, we from BSP left Bulgaria insist that by Wednesday the Council of Ministers should submit a Bill to postpone the entry into force of this Law. If it is not submitted by Wednesday, we will submit such a bill because the change of ministers does not solve anything. GERB, at least on this policy in two governments, is concerned with the absorption of European money consistent in the chaos in the system, consistent in the killing of patriotism and education in Bulgarian secondary education, consistent in the severe damage it causes to Bulgarian children. On Wednesday, if such a bill is not submitted, we will submit it from BSP left Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u170	No ultimatums.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u171	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. [[Reply from the National Representative Georg Georgiev.]] Here's a personal explanation. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Mikov, I am not among the co-conspirators of the Bill for purely administrative reasons. This should not be a reason for speculation. But what is different from BSP's is that we did not want to return education in the time when Makarenko's methods were applied, when education was done with a finger waving and when children stood on pecan shells.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u173	How is he affected?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u174	Dear colleague, how are you affected?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u175	What you do not understand is that the moment requires new methods, new ways to conduct education. [[Loud noise and lines in BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u176	Mr. Georgiev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u177	I believe that when something so important is done for society, on a subject as essential as education and as raising our future generation... [[Loud noise and lines in BSP LB]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u178	Wait a minute, mate! Mr. Georgiev, you are making a statement, and we have not heard what you are affected by Mr. Mikov's statement. Let's follow the rules, because you know that when it comes time for parliamentary control, circuses become circuses! [[BSP LB banks rumbling]] Please don't tap into the banks!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u179	What I'm concerned about is that Mr. Mikov speculates with a subject that doesn't understand education... [[Strong noise and shouts in BSP LB, lines "Bravo!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u180	Thank you. You just gave him the floor...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u181	You didn't pass your exam!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u182	He uses the name of young people to promote populist ones of whom he has no idea, because as has been seen so far, he has no special attitude towards young people. In this regard, I felt affected and decided to explain in fact what my position was dictated by. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u183	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB a statement. Mrs. Irena Sokolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am authorized on behalf of the leadership of the Political Party GERB to make my declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u185	Yours or the band's?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u186	This is the vice president.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u187	This is part of the group's leadership. The colleagues from GERB called that they authorised Mrs. Sokolova. So please be quiet in the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u188	It is not good through procedural grasps and manipulations to shut the mouths of MPs! [[Private applause from GERB.]] Moreover, your group has gathered because of the fact that today you will make a declaration. Thank God that at least there are colleagues who really understand education and can be here in a personal capacity to take emotional, social and administrative remarks. But that's the most normal of all, because your social request is actually always socialist.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u189	Go explain it to the Ministry and the children! Now, get to the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u190	And let's basically say that there's no way to debone a spine that we heard earlier. Furthermore, I do not see how a Preschool and School Education Act can be harmful because it corresponds to and reflects the situation at the moment, because it does not bet on the barracks type of waving pointers and on our children being blamed and sugested, but on allowing for personal creativity and personal expression. Only you wouldn't understand that. Naturally, you understand culture, education, and interfere in each of the controversy that flows in the Chamber, only to participate. Education is not a business, as you said, because to you business sounds like a dirty word. But I must tell you that thanks to dual education, which was introduced, the Bulgarian business found its place in education and made its request for participation in the curriculum and education already gives value to the business. [[Reply of MP Atanas Merdjanov.]] And that's the real point! And if the dropout students we're talking about all the time, they're not because of the catharsis that's been going on for a year and a half every Friday. And it was because you didn't doze properly, and you probably fell into some sort of introvertency of the spirit. [[Private applause from GERB.]] Enlightenment and education are not raising, raising and caring for students. It's the first case of the family environment. This should first be known by a social party, because you cannot change the model in a child when the first seven years have passed. It is for this reason, honourable Members, that training has been introduced in kindergartens since the age of 5 so that we can create a good social environment for children and students. And you should stand up for that amendment in the Law. [[Reply of MP Atanas Merdjanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u191	Mr. Merdjanov, please don't call from the spot! I've looked at you hard a few times, but you still don't understand the attention I'm giving you. Go on, Mrs. Sokolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u192	Let me tell you that, in fact, your idea, which should have found a place, meaning and value in the Preschool and School Education Act, we did, and that is what civil education is. Because you can't raise healthy, developed, creative children with claims, children with skills and qualities if you don't give them the opportunity to express themselves and if you don't be good support to them. This does not happen with a pointer, nor with education and suggestion. That's what happens with education. Growing up means manipulating. To educate is to give and develop abilities. And that's a fundamental difference! [[Private applause from GERB.]] In fact, I have to tell you, because you are obviously not familiar with the Preschool and School Education Act, that in sixth grade, when children go through the delicate age of puberty, they will have a full-time education and a full-time opportunity to reside in the midst of their classmates, together with their teachers who should be their mentors and mentors. However, this does not preclude the role of parents, ladies and gentlemen, the first seven years we talked about. In fact, in the education budget for this year we will repeat it for sure for the thousandth time there are 150 million more because education is a priority. 150 were built and renovated kindergartens only in Sofia because we bet on this care and on this model of education. If you believe that the place of declarations relating to the future of the country should be made in this edifying way, within the framework of the replacement of a minister, which is absolutely necessary and is made by the only prime minister who can make this decision, then I regret it, but you do not really understand the role, functions and purpose of the national representation. [[Laughter and shouting in BSP LB.]] I'd like to think that keeping morals and good morals are part of your nature. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Sokolova. We are going to ask the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Emil Raynov, Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Dr. Hassan Ademov about the obligation of the Minister of Health according to art. 58 of the Health Act implementing the common policy on compulsory immunizations included in the immunization calendar. To develop his question has the word Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u194	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I begin with our questioning, I would like to thank the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva for making it possible to take place today, despite the written request of Minister Moskov to postpone his participation in parliamentary control once again. Thank you, Mrs. Tsacheva. You have fulfilled your role as President of the National Assembly! Regarding our question, which concerns the policy and obligations of the Ministry of Health for the implementation of the mandatory immunization calendar in the Republic of Bulgaria, I would like to say that there has been a lot of speculation on this topic lately. The people we ask these questions were called everything! In this regard, I have done my best and I would like to tell Mr. Minister that here are all the legal documents of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, Ordinance No 10 on Unauthorized Medicinal Products, Ordinance No 15 on Immunoisations in the Republic of Bulgaria and all the official documents with which we will work in the framework of the debate on this questioning. You know that there was a complex situation in the Bulgarian society regarding the implementation of partial delivery of vaccines from the Republic of Turkey. In this regard, in order for there to be no speculation, I will ask very clear questions. Mr. Minister, my request is also for clear, precise and specific answers. Firstly, since the inability to obtain the necessary vaccines for the execution of the immunization calendar has been found, why has not a European solution been sought to obtain these vaccines? Is it true that there has been a proposal made by "Sanofi Pastor" "France" to carry out a partial delivery of the necessary vaccines? Based on your numerous participations and debates here in the Chamber, we have found that one of the two vaccines imported from the Republic of Turkey with an intergovernmental agreement is not allowed for use by the European Union because of high levels of thiomersal in a single dose, and you claim that it is in storage at the Ministry of Health and we do not use it. The question remains: why is the report to the Council of Ministers and an explicit clause written in the Agreement itself, I quote: The Government of the Republic of Bulgaria is obliged to use the amounts of vaccines received for the purposes of the Immunity calendar? Please explain what and what is the reason why we are importing an unauthorised medicinal What does it take to make costs, although it is a donation, you know that it is paid, the least VAT, the cost of storing this vaccine is paid? Give, please, some argument other than that we will vaccinate the children of the refugees here. My third question to you, Minister, is: does the Ministry of Health agree with the Executive Agency for Medicines import of the corresponding vaccines [[the President signals that time has run out]] Pentaxim and Euvax, did you know that a letter was leaked to the Director of the Agency? As my time is over, finally perhaps the most important question: I would like you to point out from this high tribune, Mr. Minister, the permission to use the medicinal product Pentaxim, but this medicinal product I am holding in my hand [[shows him]] , produced by Mephar. Not to quote the internal documents of the manufacturer..Sanofi Pasteur........................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u195	For an answer, the Minister of Health Mr. Petar Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u196	Mrs. President, Dear Gentlemen Boychev, Raynov.. MPs from BSP left Bulgaria, Mr. Kardzhaliev and Mr. Ademov? MPs from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. I will answer because this is how it is done, so it requires parliamentary procedure. To the question I've been asked, I'm going to answer it exactly like that. Before that, two words. I tried repeatedly with arguments, with facts, with figures, with statistics, with data, somehow to make you stop political outbursts on the topic of fear in people. Obviously you don't want to do this. Obviously, for you, your political goals are above everything else above human, above... [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] I will no longer deal with your political attacks. I hope that I have made it necessary for Bulgarian parents to be calm. Now to the point. In relation to what you have asked... [[BSP LB.]] Madam President, may I continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u197	Colleagues, I ask for tolerance and correctness. You asked questions, you heard the answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u198	In relation to the question made by you concerning the obligations of the Minister of Health under art. 58 of the Health Act implementing the common policy on mandatory immunizations included in the Immunization calendar, I provide you with the following answer: In accordance with art. 58, para. 2 of the Health Act the Minister of Health defines by regulation the persons who are subject to mandatory scheduled immunizations and reimmunizations included in the Immunization calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria as the order, manner and time frame for their implementation. Order of the Council of Ministers of 2005, published and published Ordinance No 15 on immunizations in the Republic of Bulgaria, which describes the main activities of immunoprophylaxis.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Over the past two years, we have witnessed the irresponsible attitude of pharmaceutical companies not participating in tenders for the supply of multi-component vaccines for scheduled mandatory immunizations and reimmunizations, which take place in newborns and children up to two years of age. For reference only: in 2014, eight of the included 17 compartments including the supply of five-component vaccines were terminated in the Ministry of Health for the supply of vaccines to carry out mandatory immunizations and reimmunizations due to the absence of any participant. The last delivery of a five-component vaccine by a Bulgarian Marketing Authorisation Holder was carried out in mid-June 2013 in a quantity of 50,000 doses. Meanwhile, as early as the beginning of April 2014, a major immunisation was carried out prior to the reimmunization of six-year-olds with a five-component vaccine and redistribution between the available levels. In order to prevent interruption of the immunization calendar of August of the same year by order of the Minister, it is ordered that the primary immunisation of those born after 1 June 2014 be carried out with the four-component vaccine, because this was available to the State at that time due to the exhaustion of the quantities of the petvalent vaccine laid down in the Immunization calendar. In order to ensure the necessary vaccines, the Ministry of Health has urgently implemented an amendment and supplement to Regulation No 15, including the six-component vaccine to replace the missing five-component. Due to difficulties again from the company manufacturer delivery was carried out only on 3 December 2014, with which the four-component vaccine was redirected to the reimmunization of the six-year-olds. In 2015, the Ministry of Health conducted a public contract for the conclusion of a Framework Agreement for 48 months, which was one of the requirements for predictability on the Bulgarian market Once again, eight out of eighteen lots, including four-, five- and six-component vaccines, have been discontinued due to the absence of a candidate. In the meantime, contracts were concluded and supplies were made for the required quantities for 2015 of the following main early childhood vaccines: hepatitis B, pneumococcal infections, tuberculosis, measles, mumps, Reuben, as well as tetanus-diphtheria for adults. Seeking opportunities to secure the required quantities, the Ministry of Health based on an Intergovernmental Agreement with the Republic of Turkey received at the beginning of July 2015 a donation of a hundred thousand doses of five-component vaccine, which is used as the primary immunisation of newborns. On 23 October 2015, a procedure for the award of a contract for the supply of vaccines to terminated positions was launched again. As a result of the contracts concluded at the end of 2015 In the last days of 2015, 36 050 doses of four-component vaccine, 71 150 doses of five-component vaccine and 20,000 doses of six-component vaccine were delivered for the treatment of subjects, not immunised and incompletely immunized in 2014 and 2015. We've got two cohorts slowed down. The received doses of vaccines were distributed to regional health inspections as soon as they were received at the Ministry of Health warehouse, subject to the requirements of the freezer chain. For 2016, the Ministry of Health has concluded framework agreements for some of the types and quantities of vaccines embedded in the country's immunization programme, and the rest are scheduled to conduct an open procurement, which will be officially uploaded to the Ministry's website on Monday. Decision of the Council of Ministers No 977 of 14 December 2015 approved the Project for a donation agreement with which the Government of the Republic of Turkey to donate 40 thousand new doses of five-component vaccine to the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria as the basis for possible negotiations. In conclusion, I inform you that given the importance of immunoprophylaxis for the protection of public health against contagious diseases and, in particular, the health of children, in order to avoid interruption of the Immunization calendar, where necessary, the Ministry of Health will also seek other options and mechanisms to secure national needs. We currently have guaranteed, i.e. delivered or tendered vaccines for the mandatory immunity calendar of the children by the end of April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u199	Two supplementary questions. Here you go, Mr. Raynov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u200	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, I don't think you understood the questions that were asked by the President of the National Assembly Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u201	The question is asked in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u202	The question is asked in writing. They've come here. For the last time the opinion was confirmed in all of us that you speak untruths about the subject from morning to evening. You just drew the chronology of the problem, but you didn't say anything about the violations that were committed in the supply of this vaccine. Your accusations that some of us are creating scandals to feed off scandals would bring them back to you. Compliance with the law is not a political attack. You should know that very well! I am aware of the whole topic of what is happening, it became clear to the Bulgarian citizens as well. Something very interesting happened last Saturday when the Prime Minister came out and said: "I have negotiated the vaccines, no problem."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u203	Mr. Raynov, you are in a position to ask two questions. For attitude later.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u204	Then it became clear that it was not you who misled the Council of Ministers, but you who were ordered to do so. That also explains the law-greasing, explains the crisis PR you do in the media. The question remains: why did you do it? So you can keep riding in the SUVs, discover objects, cut ribbons or maybe win bets?! It's the last one for me. Perhaps this is the first time you have been given the opportunity to win your favorite bet in the bets of a bottle of whiskey. However, that does not justify you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u205	You have two questions for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u206	As Minister, you are responsible for drug policy, as a citizen, you must comply with the laws. The Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office has committed violations. There are other words for lawbreakers and their accomplices in the Bulgarian language. I'm worried you've lost this time, Minister. You lost! This time, however, the bet was not another result of another machete, not even trust in the Bulgarian institutions. This time the health of Bulgarian children was at stake.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u207	There were no further questions. [[Reply from Minister Petar Moskov.]] Say something, but I've asked twice for two supplementary questions. There weren't any.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u208	I'll say something.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u209	It's more of a questioning thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u210	To read the question that has been asked and to which I have to answer under your rules...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u211	Asking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u212	Many times during the year, politics were discussed. The issue is addressed by the Council of Ministers. Are difficulties expected in 2016? Please express your views on this. And I'm doing it very specifically. Otherwise, every Bulgarian citizen, if he has not been convinced by now, now, after this statement, "the game," I do not know what and so on, must give a clear understanding that it is a pure political attack. Please, really, every reasonable Bulgarian citizen can appreciate this thing. For the specifics. Is it the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office's proposal because it's not the one who says it's the law that's been broken? No, she doesn't make sanctions, she has another standard. She's investigating administrative violations of administrative omissions. Whether or not there are administrative deficiencies in the procedure, it is a subject of the prosecution's competence. We write the relevant answers. From our point of view, there aren't any. If the D.A. proves... This, of course, I will take responsibility for an administrative omission, which in no way is, has never been the subject of an investigation in terms of the security and composition of the vaccines with which the Bulgarian children are vaccinated. Now I'm going to say two more things, Mrs. Tsacheva, because it's starting to tighten me up. Who, who said that a 6-component vaccine should be included in the Bulgarian immunization calendar? Remember?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u213	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u214	No? Mr. Raynov remembers. Do you know the difference between the 5-component and the 6 component vaccine? "Fifty-four BGN. You know, if a company that declares to you quite honestly that there are production difficulties, i.e. it cannot make the components of a single vaccine objectively and honestly, people say it: "We have new requirements of the European Union and the Bulgarian state believes it. If a company can't produce a 5-component, it can't produce a 6-component, can it? Because she hasn't had enough production capacity. At this moment, the obligation for a 6-component vaccine appears in the Bulgarian immunization calendar and the country gives 15 million more. It's good, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u215	For attitude, as should be the asking procedure, although what I'm listening to is not... [[BSP LB.]] We respect it, of course. We're following procedure. There were no two supplementary questions. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u216	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, in consultation with colleagues, we are disappointed, but also amazed, and even offended by your attitude towards our questioning, Mr Minister. In the last few months, you've actually been manipulating and lying. Manipulation was the fact that this procurement was failed, announced on 29 December with a deadline of 12 February, and we know that 18 months is only the production of vaccines. You neglected to say that between March and June, the official holders of the marketing authorisation were looking for you, and with your arrogant style, you simply diverted them. You didn't say anything about the agreement in which you lied to both the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers and the public that this donation from Turkey is actually about the Immunization calendar, and then you say quite other things that both vaccines were not about the Immunization calendar and so on. You're also manipulating the political attack. On the condition that a deputy prosecutor says there's a violation, what kind of political attack are you looking for from us? We find that and say that that's why there has to be an unsub. The subject is the Minister of Health. End of story. And panicked, then you continue and in a very confuse situation you engaged your entire entourage to make media receipts and search for an alibi, including you didn't allow yourself to use, namely the natural reaction, the generational relationship between a mother and a child, and thus to influence sacramental, uninvited human relations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u217	Me or you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u218	Mr. Minister, you are Peter, but you are not cunning. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Minister,....
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u219	Please, Mr. Kardzhaliev! Please, no such qualifications! They're your personals.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u220	I'm sorry. You've been acting like one big exception in a world of idiots for two months. We can't let that happen. That is why, Madam President, according to art. 101 of the Rules of the National Assembly I apply 66 signatures to you, asking you to schedule a debate. There's a draft solution for that. Sorry about the overdue time. [[(The National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev gives the signatures to the President. Announcements from BSP LB: Bravo! Bravo! (Applause)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u221	We are going to ask the MPs Mihail Mikov, Emil Raynov and Philip Popov about providing timely treatment to the Bulgarian citizens. Mr. Popov, you're welcome to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u222	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Our question is brief, but it requires a serious answer. A number of amendments to the regulations were adopted in the Health Insurance Act. A regulation of about 500 pages was adopted in the Health Insurance Act for the implementation of these laws. Perhaps you should do a special training course under this regulation, because even lawyers have difficulty reading and analyzing it? Our question is: after all these amendments, how will you guarantee citizens access to medical care, although it is also guaranteed in art. 52 of our Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u223	For an answer, the Minister of Health Mr. Petar Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u224	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mikov, Dear Mr. Raynov, Dear Mr. Popov and Members of Parliament, Dear ladies and gentlemen! The legislative initiatives of the Ministry of Health adopted by the National Assembly in 2015 are conditioned by the need to introduce changes in the regulations to ensure health care corresponding to the health needs of Bulgarian citizens. These changes shall take into account the implementation of the objectives and priorities of the national strategic and programming documents in force. The main objective of the diagnostic and treatment policy is to ensure equal access to timely medical care with the necessary quality of every Bulgarian citizen. In order to ensure timely access to quality medical care for patients in emergency situations, some of the measures focus on the priority development of emergency assistance through investment in resource, technical, logistics and personnel development. The integrated model of the emergency medical care system including the outpatient part of the emergency medical care centers with their affiliates and mobile emergency teams and the hospital part of the emergency medical care facilities requires improving coordination and interaction between them, which will ensure the health security of the population. In line with the Concept for the Development of the Emergency Aid System in the Republic of Bulgaria 2014-2020 and in order to address the severe personnel deficit in the framework of the budget of the Ministry of Health, since the beginning of 2015, additional funds have been provided to increase the remuneration of those working in the Emergency Medical Centres (CSMs), and the allocation of funds to be implemented according to a methodology allowing the recovery of accumulated imbalances in remuneration for all 28 centres. As a result of the measures adopted in 2015, for the first time, there was a positive trend towards overcoming the personnel deficit, with doctors entering the job by 45% more than those leaving the system, with the increased number of people entering the job allowing full assembly of teams in all district cities. In 2016, an additional increase is envisaged, which is already a fact of wages, which will continue for years to come. Along with this, conditions and motivation were created to increase the professional capacity of the employed specialists through various measures aimed at ensuring long-term training of those employed in emergency care. In order to ensure the access of patients to affordable and quality emergency care and to provide an effective mechanism for systematic planning, monitoring and continuous improvement of the quality of medical services, the Regulation establishing the medical standard An emergency assessment system, including a triage system, shall be introduced. telephone triage during emergency calls and emergency team access times, depending on the urgency of the call. The standard regulates participation in emergency teams of new types of professionals in the emergency medical care system. In addition, under the Operational Programme A key change introduced by the amendments to the Health Insurance Act was the restructuring of the package of medical services, which pays NHIF, to a major and additional one. The change is justified by the need to concentrate the resources for carrying out activities interventioning on the main health problems of the population and improving its health performance.. this is the result of the good or poor performance of a system. The activities of the basic package guarantee access to the patient without delay, in accordance with the medical statement, the extent and severity of this condition. The main package includes all socially significant diseases that cause about 90% of mortality and disability, all acute diseases and conditions that require immediate treatment, as well as maternal and child health activities. There are also three new clinical pathways for long-term treatment, and early physical therapy and rehabilitation after three acute states of neurologic conditions associated with, let's say, stroke, popular, surgical interventions related to major surgical and orthopaedic interventions. The activities of the supplementary package, depending on the patient's condition, i.e. the extent of his suffering, can be planned, based on medical judgement, to be implemented or re-evaluated with a delay in time, but not more than two months, as recorded in Regulation No 40, respectively. However, in case of change and deterioration, the patient is hospitalised immediately. Out-patient care is mainly included in the basic package, detailing the specific health information, promotional and preventive activities, including secondary disease prevention through the dispensary surveillance process provided to health insured persons. The scope of outpatient activities carried out without requiring hospitalization of the patient is also foreseen, which aims to increase the effectiveness of medical care and minimise the unnecessary costs of hospital stay, which are not dictated by the patient's health and are not related to specific medical activities. Another change aimed at improving timely treatment and reducing the incidence and mortality of the population, by strengthening promotion and primary and secondary disease prevention, is the amendment and supplement of Ordinance No 39 of 2004 on preventive examinations and dispensation, so-called dispensation Regulation. It, as well as the Regulation on the package of health activities guaranteed by the budget of the NHIF, has been developed in compliance with the basic principles for ensuring that every Bulgarian citizen has access to the required scope of medical activities paid with public resources when clearly defining the obligations of all parts of the health care system, respectively: general practitioners, doctors specialists, hospital and other specialized institutions to provide its complex service. The prevention and dispensation activities fall entirely within the basic package of health activities paid by the NHIF. The regulation regulates precisely the volume of preventive examinations activities for children and pregnant women who are being paid by the NHIF. These two groups are specially represented, as child and mother health are the main priorities in national health policy and are strategic documents that you have adopted. For adults over 18 years the volume of preventive examinations by age groups and the criteria for the formation of risk groups are regulated. Additional examinations are at stake in a relevant specialist, as well as medical diagnostic and highly specialised studies for patients who are identified with an increased risk of developing socially significant diseases of diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular and some oncological diseases, i.e. for the first time, for example, in the dispensary package. [[the President signals that time has run out]] pay histology in the study of cervical cancer, mammary gland, prostate. I can still go on, but there's no time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u225	Then in the answer to the two supplementary questions. Two supplementary questions, Mr. Raynov. It's not about the answer, it's about questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u226	Thank you for the reminder, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The two supplementary questions: the first supplementary question, which is written in the regulations and regulations, which came out after the adoption of the Law, has already been explicitly written, that the referral for consultation to a specialist in outpatient care, both for hospitalization, for medical expertise on workability, can now be postponed for up to two months by the personal physician. At its discretion, the Jeep will also be able to postpone the entire medical expertise activity, the preparation of a medical for marriage, the employment of children from 16 to 18 years of age for two months, the issuance of hospital even, the referral of medical expertise to the calves. All of this in two months? This, do you think it's timely medical care? Question two: we're talking about hospital care. Mr. Minister, in these packages, which you have so thoroughly painted, have completely dropped 19 clinical pathways. I've got them out, I can list all of them..................................................................................................... Dear colleagues, these are all socially significant diseases. I don't want to list them all. In the end, only the dropping of these pathways deprives thousands of patients of hospital care. 1,200 thousand hospitalizations took place last year alone. At the moment, with this legal framework.1,200 thousand. On these 19 paths that have fallen. You're now denying 1200 grand. [[noise and lines]] , forget the million.. 1200 thousand are only on these 19 paths that have fallen away and we are currently denying these citizens access to medical care. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Minister, is that the purpose of your policy?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u227	For an answer and comment on the new number
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u228	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, have asked the question, ladies and gentlemen! Two million is the total number of hospitalizations last year in Bulgaria. There's no way a million and two hundred thousand could be. [[Reply from BSP LB: One hundred twenty thousand.]] Okay, let's figure out what this is about, because 1,000, thousands, 200 thousand and so on... First of all, on the first question, because I really try to be about how to say an adequate question and answer where it is meaningful. There is no reason to say that the possibility that the additional discretion given to personal doctors regarding the entire expertise in labour-expert legislation, which is currently changing really radically, and here I think we have no differences even with the most radical opposition, that this should change, this is not a denial of timely medical care. Medical aid has been given, it has happened, the person has healed or has been stabilized in the state to which medical science allows, so let's not speculate about it. Other than that, it's just not like that. Each of the dropouts of clinical pathways, some of them minimally, have dropped out at the explicit insistence of scientific companies and national consultants because they are united with other clinical pathways, in terms of the implementation of the algorithm of treatment. I am neither you nor I, even though we are doctors who in their specialties give an opinion on this matter, we have complied with the opinion of the specialists. Most of the stuff, they haven't dropped out, and you also know it very well. Certain things that have been clinical pathways, the things that you talk about about about ear diseases, about eye diseases and so on, they are taken out in clinical procedures, which means the following: something that in the whole world is one-day surgery, one-day manipulation. A guy comes to the hospital, gets manipulated, surgery or something, leaves in the afternoon. Until now, a person had to lie in hospital for at least three days at least why, how, who to pay for it. This, the environment in which a person has a disease and feels good about the hospital when he's in the most modern hospital? It's not, like, the environment that drives a person to have good thoughts. Each of these things is done for the benefit of patients. Not having to lie in a hospital for something you do in half an hour, and you can leave is a good thing, and the whole modern world does that. The other, from my point of view, is bad, both from the point of view of the hospital's economy, mostly from the perspective of the life and health of patients, because the hospital's stay is also associated with a completely different order of risks. I hope you do not plead for this, and I hope that you support the removal of certain activities, such as gastroscopy, such as small eye surgery in outpatient procedures for the good of the patient, and for our system to be as is the system in the countries where there is greater satisfaction than healthcare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u229	For attitude, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u230	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Mr. Minister, this motoleum in terminologists is obviously some kind of guilt regarding the removal of certain diseases that people have paid health insurance for. Like in education, when you drop out of school... [[Reply from Minister Petar Moskov.]] Shut up now!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u231	Please don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u232	As in education, when the dropout of the Balkanji Yovo....and the history of Slavic Bulgarian....are justified by the experts..
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u233	On the subject, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u234	...for dropping out of quick treatment, for example, discopathy with peeing. This illness you took out and the citizen has to wait, and otherwise his employer has to wait to give him a hospital list. [[Reply from Minister Petar Moskov: "It is not true. "]] There's another option. At the discretion of the doctor, pay, although he regularly paid his health insurance. It's very true, and that's what it says in these 450-500 pages. This visible result will be felt from April month by Bulgarian citizens. Now you're trying to make us accomplices in this case. We don't support this because you just said that we probably support these things, too. We don't support them! We are on the principle: if the citizen has paid his health insurance, we must not make him pay twice. That's what happens with this separation. In a single illness of those listed by Dr. Raynov, a person has paid for his insurance insurance, he will not go to hospital, as you say, or go to hospital, simpler, he will go home. [[Reply from Minister Petar Moskov: "Why? "]] Well, if there's no money. His other option is to pay and go to treatment. [[(Reply from Minister Peter Moskov: Where does it say that?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] That doesn't say it, but it's practically the? Or he'll wait two months with the discopathy in question, which I told you, which you included in the unsocially significant diseases and will sit at home, or he'll reach into his pocket even though he was paying his health contributions properly. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So this attitude towards the Bulgarian citizens, leave the opposition, leave others, and the doctors will feel because they will stand on the front front. They are the ones who will now have to face the sick patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u235	Before we move on to the next question with an inch. No 654-00-23 of 29 January 2016, 13.16 hours, received a request signed by 66 MPs from the parliamentary groups of BSP left Bulgaria and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms... [[Reply from the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev.]] There may be others, it's just what I saw at first reading. There are other people... [[Reply from the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev.]] ... and other MPs, in this total number of 66, which on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose the holding of debates on inquiry by the National Assembly. No 554-05-121, dated 11 December 2015, made by the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dr. Emil Raynov, Dr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Dr. Hassan Ademov to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov concerning the duties of the Minister of Health, according to art. 58 of the Health Act implementing the common policy on mandatory immunizations included in the Immunization calendar, together with the draft decision................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The terms of art. 101, para. 1. By argument of para. 2 requests for a debate with the Draft Decision should be scheduled for the next plenary session designated for parliamentary control. This is the plenary session that the National Assembly will hold on 5 February. On the basis of art. 101, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule debates, debate and vote on the Draft Decision on Parliamentary Control, which will take place on 5 February 2016. Next is a question from the National Representative Milen Mihov about the convening of an extraordinary General Assembly of the shareholders of MOBAL Dr. Stefan Cherkezov We're listening, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u236	Madam President! Mr. Minister, my question is specific, it concerns the fate of the multi-profile hospital for active treatment in Veliko Tarnovo, or briefly the district hospital in Veliko Tarnovo. This issue concerns and gives rise to serious public sentiment not only for the citizens of Veliko Tarnovo Municipality, but also for all citizens of Veliko Tarnovo District, as this is a hospital of regional importance. I'll be brief in my statement. To the shareholders of MOBAL, Dr. Stefan Cherkazov JSC, Veliko Tarnovo, in which the Ministry of Health is a majority shareholder with 51% of the shares, was sent an invitation by the Board of Directors to convene a general meeting on 19 January 2016 with an agenda: first, making a decision for the sale of property property of the company, with the corresponding number according to the plan of Veliko Tarnovo, with an area of 18 706 sq.m. m., as well as another plot of land with an area of 1450 sq. m. Those properties are part of the plot of Mobal with their buildings. The first, unfinished construction site of a surgical block comprising Block No 1, built up to the ninth floor, with partially executed electric. and water, excavation for Block No 2 and building in the second plot, with built area 385 sq. m., intended for a steam plant. Both plots are located in a wide center of Veliko Tarnovo. From the information we have, it is clear that the proposal is motivated by the implementation of the National Health Strategy and the prepared business plan for the development of the district hospital, which provides for the unification of the existing Base 1 located on 1 Sv. The so-called old hospital on the territory of Base 1, that is to say the unification of the two bases. Dear Minister, in relation to the above, I ask you the following specific questions: how do you determine the actions for the privatisation of some of the assets of the District Hospital in Veliko Tarnovo? Secondly, do you know about the existence of investment interests and what are the expected funds for the sale of the envisaged properties? Thirdly, have the funds needed to build a new hospital corps been calculated and will the expected receipts be sufficient for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u237	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. For an answer, Minister Moskov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u238	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mihov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A multi-profile hospital for active treatment Dr. Stefan Cherkezov is a public limited company in which the state is only one of the shareholders, it owns 51% of the capital. Therefore, the decision to sell assets to a medical establishment, defined as non-operative, is not taken by the Minister of Health, but by the General Assembly of shareholders, which is formed by the state and municipalities in the region of Veliko Tarnovo, with a different share. The initiative for the sale of non-operative assets of the company is a right of the Board of Directors, according to art. 26, para. 1, t. 15 of the Statute of MOBAL, Dr. Stefan Cherkezov, the city of Veliko Tarnovo, and the designated authority also determines which assets are directly related to the company's activities and which of them are not necessary, i.e. have the status of non-operative assets. It is a question of second, third bases, courts and so on, and are a burden, given the costs of their preservation and maintenance. In view of the fact that the medical establishment is included in the prohibition list under art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on privatization and post-privatization control, according to the provision of art. 28, para. 9th para. 10 of the same Law, parts of the medical establishment are sold in a special order, namely after agreement of the Council of Ministers and a preliminary decision of the General Assembly of Shareholders. The General Meeting of Shareholders announced for holding on 19 January 2016 was convened on the initiative and decision of the Board of Directors without the State shareholder making a proposal for the convening. The State has examined the submitted materials by the company on the agenda items and will express its opinion through its way of voting in the holding of the relevant meeting. Investment intentions for the sale, respectively the purchase of real estate which is claimed as its own company, shall be addressed to its management bodies in part to the Board of Directors. In the Ministry of Health in 2015 I answer in particular already, a short letter of interest to the company's property without specific data on the planned investments and their final amount, which has been submitted for consideration and discussion to the Board of Directors by letter with the Ministry's outgoing number 26-00-199 of 30 March 2015. Analyses and estimates of the funds needed to build a new hospital corps should be made by the hospital's management body. First of all, there is a need for a new hospital corps there, to say that between the so-called old and new hospital base, only the transportation of medicines, blood products and patients cost hundreds of thousands of people to the hospital only within the year.......................... to protect and justify the idea of the management of the hospital institution for unification of the two facilities in which the structure of the hospital is located. At present, no official investment interests have been provided for the construction of specific buildings with the relevant parameters. As regards whether the expected proceeds will be sufficient to realise investment intentions, it is difficult to predict in advance the outcome of a possible sale. It should be borne in mind that according to a provision of art. 10a of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control the cash proceeds from the privatisation of parts of medical establishments with state or municipal participation in which the State or municipality is not a sole owner are transferred to the hospital account. In other words, it remains owned and can only be used for investments directly related to the subject matter of activity after authorisation of the owner of the capital. Any proceeds from the sale of non-operative assets will be used for specific activities only after a reasoned and reasoned proposal by the Board of Directors and after authorisation by the General Meeting of Shareholders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u239	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u240	Dear Lord Chairman, Mr. Minister! I listened well to your reply and it seemed to give an indirect answer why the meeting did not take place on the 19th because of the failure of the representative of the state, although the time was very good, then the journey was easy to reach from Sofia to Veliko Tarnovo. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 659 thousand. £750. This business plan is expressed in the motive of the hospital manager, the mayor and the municipality of Veliko Tarnovo. It is interesting that the business plan developed in 2015 is largely repeating a report on reducing the costs of the MHAL for 2005, in which the figures are quite similar. The expected revenues, for example, in the unification of base two to base one is 553 824 BGN. The same amount is indicated in the business plan of p. 553 824 lv. This proximity of the numbers in the ten-year range is too disturbing. It is strange or, more precisely, that you and I cannot answer the question: why in 2005, on the basis of estimates, is it clear that the expected revenue from the unification of the two bases is between 550 thousand and 1 million, but also in the business plan that envisages the sale of such an asset, only the merger of the two bases would give us an economy in the range of 480 thousand to 1 million? My question is: do you think it is reasonable to resolve the issue of unification of the two bases by partial privatisation of assets in such large savings in the event of a merger on both bases and can't you find other ways to finance this merger? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u241	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. For the doppelganger, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u242	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mihov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Stefan Cherkezov Hospital is one of the major district and structural-determining hospitals of the state and any action that takes place both in the optimization of the activity and in the optimization of the structure must be really carefully assessed and validated and set out to it after the specific benefits are clear. That is, the state will review its assets, investment intentions, everything else, and then give its decision in relation to the particular medical establishment and, in the case of further interest, I will keep you informed of this process. However, to avoid giving the wrong impression: I am a supporter of the so-called non-operative hospital assets... That's what it means. Buildings that, for 10, 20, 30 years, have not been used for medical activities, but built in the years for some purpose for security reasons, for a number of other reasons, terrains, which are second, third, fourth place in the city in view of the former investment intentions, the municipality gives them to the state, it gives them to hospitals and so on. These things should enter as an opportunity for the hospital to have fresh financial operational resources. It is important in this process to respect publicity, transparency, respect for state interest and to make it clear what the final effect is. That is, the questions that you are asking must have a clear answer, and only then, from my point of view, should we proceed with such actions. Supporting by the State, which is mainly a shareholder in large regional hospitals, such assets are in fact a kind of idleness. It's a deserted thing. Even in Tarnovo itself there is a large terrain on the center of Tarnovo, which is held at the hospital. I know there are serious investment intentions that have been declared unofficially. That money's gonna go to the hospital. She will be able to invest them, again I say again, transparent, concrete and relative to a preliminary clear business plan, which is held accountable to me, respectively to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u243	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The last question to which you will answer as Minister of Health is the MP Ivan Ibrishimov and he is about the dropouts for treatment of cancer patients on the list of the National Health Insurance Fund for this year. Here you are, Dr. Ibrishimov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u244	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Minister Moskov! My question is provoked and based on a statement by the Bulgarian Medical Oncology Association of 18 January 2016, with which its Chairman Prof. Timcheva alarmed that after a change in the reimbursing list of the National Health Insurance Fund, it was removed mainly for the treatment of oncological diseases such as Cyclofamide, Holoxan, Cladribin, Trabectedin, Bleomycin, Mitomycin, Lenograstim, Medroxiprogesterone acetate, Megestol, Flamistine, Azat-thiopyrin, Methotrexate tablets, Calcium foliate. These preparations are essential for the treatment of cancer patients. My question to you is to answer me will there be free medicines for cancer patients this year and when and will the money be refunded to those patients who have already paid their own treatment?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u245	Thank you, Mr. Ibrishimov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u246	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ibrishimov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In accordance with Regulation No 40 of 24 November 2004 laying down the basic package of health activities guaranteed by the budget of the NHIF, in force until 1 April 2016 and under the existing National Framework Treaty on Medical Activities, the NHIF pays outside the price of clinical pathways and procedures anti-tumor medicinal products providing the primary treatment of the relevant clinical pathways, they are listed in detail in my written reply, the necessary erythro-, thrombo and granulocyte columns stimulating factors, bisphosphonates and other medicinal products affecting bone structure and mineralisation for conditions and complications arising from the underlying disease and treatment. That is, what you're asking about, and what the problem is about, it's not just antitumor, it's drugs related to, how do I say, the full plan of treatment, as a consequence of the disease itself or the chemotherapy itself. Medicinal products for the treatment of malignancies that the NHIF pays outside the price of clinical pathways are included in the list of anti-tumour medicinal products for treatment under clinical procedures such as No 5 With an update of the list in force from 1 January 2016, certain medicinal products are indicated that the NHIF suspends their payment as the provisions of art. 45, para. 21 of the Health Insurance Act and § 17 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of Decree No 10 of 24 March 2009 on the terms and conditions for payment of medicinal products under art. 262, para. 6, p. 1 et c. 2 of the Act on medicinal products in human medicine, medical devices and diet foods for special medical purposes, as well as medicinal products for health activities under art. 82, para. 2, p. 3 of the Health Act, for mandatory bargaining of concessions. At present, the NHIF has not suspended and has no intention of suspending the payment of medicinal products intended for cancer. All medicinal products appointed and reported by medical establishments can be paid as all the codes of medicinal products in the hospital software update file are therefore active. Given that medicinal products for which concessions have not been agreed, the concessions required under Regulation No 10 are those which are part of the basic therapeutic schemes for the treatment of solid tumours and haematological diseases, by Decision No RD-NS-04-9 of 21 January 2016. The NHIF Supervisory Board has entrusted the NHIF Governor to further negotiate concessions for the provision of treatment of patients with cancer and onco-hematological diseases with medicinal products with the following international names, which you have listed: cyclophosphamide, mitomicin, iphosphamide, antithrombin, and all colonial stimulating factors and biphosphanates. The additional calls have already been made, successfully completed. The contracts with the holders of the Marketing Authorisations of those medicinal products will be concluded which will continue to be paid by the NHIF. The process of negotiations on guaranteeing concessions and on the long-term interaction of the National Fund together with the industry, I repeat, have already been carried out, have completed, there are contracts, none of these medicines The casa has stopped paying and will not stop paying on the basis of non-compliance with the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u247	You're going to take advantage of your right to a line? Here you are, Mr. Ibrishimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u248	Mr. Minister, the news of this decision of supervision pleases me as an answer. I hope that mostly satisfies the sick and the ondupcient. That's really news. I just didn't know about the two drugs without claiming to be a narrow specialist in this area, medroxyprogesterone acetate and megestrol, which are for hormonal treatment of breast cancer, what will happen to them?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u249	For each of the preparations that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u250	Please, please! Mr. Minister, wait! There's a regulation. Thanks for the line. Mr. Minister, you now have an opportunity for a duplicate, if you like.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u251	Affirmative.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u252	You're officially confirming, thank you. I see that after this question, your participation in parliamentary control is over today. Thank you for your commitment, you will probably have other commitments after lunch, and good luck! [[M Minister Peter Moskov's reply.]] Moving on to the next series of questions. They are to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration, Minister of Interior Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. The first question is from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov on control of the junkyards. Mr. Belemezov, please come to the parliamentary stand to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Tendentially in the years back, high levels of auto theft have been observed in Bulgaria. Of course, the most diverse are the prerequisites for this type of criminal activity to have good soil in our country. One of them is the level of corruption through which the transit of stolen cars to destinations such as Turkey, Syria, Lebanon, Russia, etc. is carried out. We all remember that in this direction there were solid reports of various television stations which very visually presented the level and organisation in this direction through evidence. Secondly, there has been a breakthrough in legislation and insufficiently effective measures, I dare say, in the years back, in a very long period by the Ministry of Interior in the long-standing struggle, with the so-called "authors." The reasons for the unsubstantiated withdrawal of a car, as the law defines this act, may be of a different nature. One of them is collecting a ransom, moving the car abroad and thirdly, cutting it up for retail sale in junkyards. Speaking of junkyards, I would like to ask you the following: what are the specific measures the Ministry of Interior is taking to ensure more effective control over the activities of the junkyards in Bulgaria? Secondly, are there international positive practices in this direction, from which we can also communicate through the prism of Bulgarian legislation to successfully implement in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u254	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u255	Dear Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen, dear Mr. Belemezov! Crime attacks on motor vehicles are characterized by dynamic complexity and good organization. In its part concerning the sale of parts and aggregates of vehicles which are the subject of crimes, are carried out weekly by police operations in junkyards, auto parts sales shops supplied, and depots for the dismantling of motor vehicles. As a result of these checks, a number of irregularities have been identified in the commercial activity of the premises, violations have been found by RIEW employees for which administrative acts are drawn up, and in many cases auto parts of the vehicle are also identified. There is currently no regulation in the legislation on the activity of places where used cars are being accepted. The activity in these places is not provided for regulation, including a licensing regime which creates prerequisites for them to be used as depots for storage, concealment and sale of used aggregates, units and parts of vehicles. There is no exception to the cases where there is evidence of such unlawful action, but due to the lack of regulatory requirements, the necessary information cannot be collected and these actions cannot be demonstrated. It is essential that rules are signed on the basis of which holders of motor vehicles, belongings and parts thereof can demonstrate at any time the origin of those vehicles and belongings. In this regard, in December 2015, in the framework of a conciliation procedure under the new Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act, which is soon scheduled to be reviewed in the Council of Ministers, we have proposed a specific text to supplement art. 35, by which a more precise legal regulation can be established. The other direction in which we are currently working is that, together with the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, we are also joining this Bill, which they offer for the auto shop and the automorage. On the second issue, a request has been made to the competent authorities of the Member States of the Interpol, Europol and the South East European Law Enforcement Centre in order to provide a specific type of information. These are texts of regulations governing the activities of car assembly sites, as well as the texts of regulations governing the activities of the premises for sale. Texts in the relevant legislative system, incriminating the possession and storage of parts and belongings of the vehicle, the penalties provided for for each of them, as well as texts incriminating the possession of parts and belongings of motor vehicles for which holders cannot prove the origin and manner of acquisition, are explicitly requested. Currently, through the overseas representatives, the Ministry of Interior has sent information from the UK, Serbia, Austria, Italy, the Netherlands, France, Turkey and Spain on the issues. We're exploring positive practices. Dealing with this problem is one of the priorities we are working on at the Ministry of Interior, literally daily and weekly. Personally, I have held meetings with representatives of car importers who have the most reliable and bulky database with an indication of the individual parts of cars and not only in their entirety. The problem is more complicated than the very nature of the crime. The problem of solving, and it requires really serious legislative work that we intend to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u256	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Colleague Belemezov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u257	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Indeed, in the years back, not much has been done in this direction. We all remember that the main boom in car theft began in the early 1990s. In fact, the various variations were sometimes from tens of thousands on an annual basis to several hundred thousand again on an annual basis. During a period of years around 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 there was in some way regulation of the process in Bulgaria. Then huge willpower in this direction contributed to the insurance companies themselves, which began to enter with the insurance business in the direction of car insurance. However, you are perfectly right that it is necessary to take drastic measures to have an effective result in this direction. The legislative part is actually the essential element in countering this type of crime. We, as the National Assembly, will be directly involved in the process. I hope that together with the Council of Ministers in your face we will have the opportunity to seal the lack of quality legislative initiatives. At the same time, good control of the junkyards themselves must also be ensured. One of the measures by which this can be ensured is through the so-called CCTV surveillance. Unfortunately, not all built junkyards in Bulgaria have built this type of system. Most of them who have this type of system built when police and law enforcement authorities have the need to use footage, video surveillance footage, it appears that, according to the explanations of the owners of such type of commercial sites at the time, DVR devices were sent for repair or simply the systems themselves did not work. In my opinion, a more centralized control should be built concerning the video surveillance itself, as it should not be carried out directly by the owners of the junkyards, but in some way centralised, even at the level of the regional police station, and it could also be the Ministry of Interior itself that provides control in this direction. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Different exits. I believe that we can have a direct dialogue in this direction to do what is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u258	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Would you like a douche? You don't want to. Thanks for answering that question. The next question to you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, is from the National Representative Manol Genov on the security of police presence in the villages of Sadovo and Lucky municipalities, Plovdiv District. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question to Mrs. Bachvarova is about the security of police presence in the villages of the municipalities Sadovo and Lucky, Plovdiv region. The problem of police presence in the villages around the country is becoming more serious, and its resolution is becoming more and more urgent. The situation in two municipalities of the Plovdiv district is more than a crisis. There are two sub-divisions of the Regional Branch "Police" on their territory and the area of security and security is almost zero. There's only been one employee on Lucky's precinct for months, and a junior police inspector. It has to serve the town of Lucky, six villages and one neighborhood in a mountain area, with a crossed terrain, with a distance of more than 20 km from the city to the final village of the municipality. The subdivision of the municipality of Sadovo has 12 villages and has long been no night police patrol. The explanation is one thing: there are no cops. The people of these 20 villages of the two municipalities are taking self-active measures for their security and property. They don't believe that's why they can rely on the state in the face of the Ministry of Interior. The mayors of the two municipalities have repeatedly put the issue before the Ministry of Interior and the district governor of Plovdiv with an insistence on increasing the police state on the ground, but there is no result yet. Madam Minister, what is the reason the Ministry of Interior refused to provide police presence in the villages of the two municipalities, while keeping unoccupied states in reserve?! Do you think it is right in a European Union country that the people of small towns are increasingly self-organized on the principle almost to guarantee the security of their lives and property? Will you also engage in what deadlines with the provision of sufficient police officers in the territory of the two municipalities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u260	Thank you for your question, Mr. Genov. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u261	Dear Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, you are putting a question that we are aware of and worries us extremely much, because within the limits of the opportunities and resources we have, it is very difficult to meet all expectations of the necessary presence. However, we are constantly trying to reorganize our activities, patrol and post work, so that we can create some guarantees. In part of the Programme for Reforms in the Ministry of Interior, which we will soon announce, there is a direction on which we are currently working, to determine the required number of criteria for the respective regional directorates. It is a software that takes into account the peculiarities of all regions and can very accurately calculate the required number. However, this is an announcement for the future. The particular case you're referring to. The district management in Asenovgrad serves the municipalities of Asenovgrad, Sadovo and Lucky and performs 24-hour service. In all cases the police responded promptly and the scenes were visited. Just to remind you that for a police officer in 2015, we awarded a young, dignified man who prevented breaking and entering Assenovgrad and thus detained a group for organized crime. There is no refusal by the Ministry of Interior for a regular police presence in the municipalities of Lucky and Sadovo. I can answer the specific question you are asking: we have no interest in maintaining such a state and giving up to provide it, but that is simply what our options are. 153 criminal crimes were committed in Sadovo Municipality last year. Of these, 54% have been discovered. In the municipality of Lucky 54% were found by 33 crimes. At present, the director of the Plovdiv District Directorate has been ordered to reassign police forces in order to better serve the observed places in Lucky and Sadovo. Regarding the state number, the current number of employees is 65, of which 11 in the executive position and 54 in the junior executive position. Every year we announce competitions in order to better secure the unoccupied state numbers throughout the country. You probably understand, however, that this is also a question of a secure financial resource. The numbers you refer to as an additional state are, in fact, financially unsecured. We therefore take into account the allocation of the budget with this fact. The situation in the country, as well as the information about the need for an additional number of employees, which we receive from the different district directorates, including from Plovdiv, suggests a maximum number. The budget voted on in plenary does not, in fact, cover this need. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Therefore, by announcing the competitions, we are mainly guided by budgets. In my opinion, for 2015, we have already announced a competition for the whole country for 300 junior executive posts. Very soon, in the coming days, we will announce a competition for 180 people for the country, of which 18 will be specifically for the requested needs of the Regional Directorate in Plovdiv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u262	Thank you. In the back you can further develop the answer. Dear Mr. Genov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u263	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. In front of me is a letter from a mayor from a municipality who wrote to the district director with a copy to you. You answer to him that he must find money to create a Community Police Unit and so on. Knowing the financial situation of most municipalities in the country, this is virtually impossible. I'd like to make a comment. You said a 24-hour presence in Lucky. I don't know how a junior police inspector who's the only one in this precinct could be working 24 hours a month. [[Reply from Deputy Prime Minister Rumyana Bachvarova.]] Maybe they let you down by texting you. I can't guarantee your information is reliable because I'm from this area, I know things, I know the employees in Lucky. There were five guys retired, two guys moved. I'm moving on. I sincerely take my hat off to the entire management of the Ministry of Interior for this cold-blooded answer that you give to those mayors who have in some way asked the matter to be resolved. I mean, there's no money, so do it. That's your honest message I just heard. So frankly, we have all forgotten that the Ministry of Interior is still performing a service in terms of security and protection of citizens' property. And this service is in advance secured by the public resources of taxpayers, of all of us in the country. I don't know if you remember where you were in 2011, when again on the territory of this District, especially for the village of Katunitsa, in Sadovo Municipality on fire were looking for police states after the death of two boys and critical mass riots. We are now looking at the fire at Galice where adults and young people have long known that the Ministry of Interior cannot rely. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The people in the villages are making a militia. I think you see, the media keep coming up with these messages. And if the reform strategy, as you said earlier, is on your computer, you just confirmed that this will happen soon, in some future, let us not deprive the Bulgarian villages of the care of the Ministry of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u264	Please navigate towards completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u265	Think of a better option.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u266	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have two minutes to make the replica.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u267	Dear Mr. Genov, this is what we do all the time to come up with better options. I would like to draw your attention to one fact. Yes, the Ministry of Interior has a responsibility to the Bulgarian citizens, public order security, their security and security of their property. But you probably know, as a legislative body, that outside of these obligations you have put the Ministry of Interior under 90 laws must provide assistance! This list has many possible topics and responsibilities that ultimately affect the common organisation of work in the Ministry of Interior. This analysis we have done, but it requires very serious work here, because there are 90 additional conditions under which the Ministry of Interior, outside of this basic power, must provide assistance. I think even if we have twice as many police, we still won't be able to handle all these obligations. That's why we're really thinking about better options. One of them is to start providing this service properly so that we can secure the municipalities where this can happen. It's part of the direction we think. As for the 24 hours, maybe you haven't noticed, I said the territory. It happens not only with the presence of one employee, there are other ways. That's the condition. We really need to unite around the findings on the state of the system. The more you look at it, the more you see how problems have accumulated over the years without having a relationship with each other. In the last 15 years 75 times has been amended the law of the Ministry of Interior. The main direction there is in the accumulation of functions. This is a true case of contradiction between legislation written in the main functions of a ministry! Ninety conditions that regulate the implementation of cooperation by the Ministry of Interior!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u268	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. The last question for you today is from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov concerning the realization of the automatic registration of motor vehicles which have resumed their insurance............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Slavov, please state your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u269	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Our issue concerns this automatic deregistered, which was introduced at the end of last year with the new Insurance Code. This is a problem that has already been repeatedly posed by many of our fellow citizens who live abroad and return here seasonally. They are worried whether this automatic reverse registration will happen, which we then requested and entered into the Law. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, with the adoption of a new Insurance Code at the end of 2015 was adopted the automatic official registration of vehicles which do not have a valid compulsory insurance insurance. At our and other colleagues' insistence, in order to reduce the administrative burden on Bulgarian citizens, automatic reverse registration was introduced after the renewal of compulsory insurance. In addition, the question arises: whether information on the relevant motor vehicle will be sent to the revenue authorities in the case of automatic registration, as the owner of the latter will not owe a vehicle tax for the period for which the vehicle is deregistered. This is within the meaning of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. In this sense, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, please answer the following question: how will the procedure of automatic registration of vehicles which have resumed their compulsory liability insurance and, moreover, is there a mechanism for notifying the revenue authorities to the municipalities that a vehicle is deregistered with a view to non-taxing it for the period for which it is without registration? It's an automatic procedure, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u270	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u271	Dear Mr. Ivanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Slavov, the changes to the Insurance Code were adopted on 15 December and entered into force on 1 January 2016. You are asking me this question today, on 29 January. At present, I can tell you that there is a team formed that is preparing a mechanism for connecting the systems between the Ministry of Interior and the Guarantee Fund, which will be ready within six months. Then the recovery of the liability will be automatic. You understand yourself that in order for these changes to work, which have entered into force within this period, it really takes technological time. At the moment, there are two ways to recover. One person who is faster and enters into force at the moment is when a person personally visits a road police station, applies and presents a valid policy for paid liability. In the second case, the longer one, the recovery of the liability becomes slower in a period of one to two months. A letter from the Guarantee Fund comes to the Ministry of Interior, after which recovery is reflected in our system. As I mentioned above, in order to shorten this deadline, we are drawing up a mechanism that must also be technologically resolved. On your second question, whether there is a mechanism for notifying the revenue authorities to the municipalities that a vehicle is deregistered, I can explain that after a person fails to fulfil his obligation to enter into an insurance policy, the information keeps the guarantee fund. Based on information from the Ministry of Interior on registered road vehicles, which is currently being exchanged weekly, the Guarantee Fund shall carry out a check in their database. Under the provisions of the Code, the Guarantee Fund shall notify the owners of road vehicles which do not have valid insurance and give them a period of 14 days to conclude it. In the letter to the owners, they were explicitly informed that the Ministry of Interior would be informed of termination of registration if their obligations were not met. After sending the letters and expiry of the 14-day period, a new check shall be carried out in a Guarantee Fund database, as many of the conscientious payers have already paid off in that period. For persons without valid insurance, the Guarantee Fund shall notify the Ministry of Interior within one month. It should be borne in mind that purely technologically this procedure takes time. The person shall not be considered to have ceased registration of the road vehicle from the moment of expiry of the insurance. A check of the Guarantee Fund database shall be carried out again prior to the termination of the registration by the Road Police and only after such termination shall be carried out. This ensures that the registration with insurance concluded during the correspondence between the Guarantee Fund and the Ministry of Interior will not be terminated. It is important to know that the registration of a road vehicle with valid insurance will not be terminated. The owner of the vehicle will be notified in writing by the Ministry of Interior. A real suspension of a vehicle registration will take place about two months after the expiry of the insurance and the owner who has failed to fulfil his obligation to renew it. Regarding the exemption from tax, I must note that the suspension of the registration of a vehicle without insurance, the liability does not mean that the owner is exempt from the tax of the vehicle concerned. The exemption shall take place only when the person returns the signs and document to the motor vehicle concerned and applies that he ceases to use it. In this case, a link has been established between the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance and information is sent electronically daily. The information reaches the relevant departments of the NRA and only when the conditions are met, the person is exempt from road tax. There is no way to ensure that when a person has not renewed We also need to take into account the fact that the failure on the part of the owner to enter into compulsory insurance..................... must have consequences for it. Mandatory insurance is liability to all road users [[the President signals that time has run out]] in the event of a traffic accident. The system is complex, so one of our proposals under another law was to have a professional re-registered with withdrawal, removing the signs, which somehow shorten this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The People's Representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u273	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Members of the National Assembly! Together with colleagues Delyan Dobrev and Petar Slavov we introduced this automatic registration after automatic deregistered. Our idea was a relief for Bulgarian citizens and I am glad that you are already working on the implementation of the mechanism. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, it is important that the six-month period you have set for this task force is shortened. I am afraid that many Bulgarians are returning to their homeland for the summer season and, if only July month this means that these six months are likely to be restored the automatic registration procedure for cars that restore their responsibility, there is a danger that thousands of Bulgarians will remain unpleasantly surprised, in the sense that they are returning to Bulgaria, it appears that their car is deregistered, a letter is probably sent to them at their address in Bulgaria, they have not, of course, read it, and will be forced under the long procedure to recover their registration. If the six-month period is possible to be reduced to three, for example, somewhere by April, there may be significant progress and, together with automatic de-registered, automatic registration of cars. Make it clear to the Bulgarian citizens that by paying back their liability under a short and automatic procedure, they will restore the registration of their car and will be able to use it for the summer season. This will be highly positive. I believe there are reservations about this happening. Secondly, I would like to point out to you that you should carefully check with your lawyers because the vehicle tax is due to registered cars. Although the signs have not been removed for the period in which the vehicle is in an automatic de-registered situation, it could be interpreted, some of our lawyers so interpret it that for this period the tax is not due. Specially contact your legal department and check this issue so that it does not turn out that there will be claims to the state for tax payments which, according to citizens, will not be due. It is good that this legal issue should be clarified immediately. I say again: our lawyers believe that for the period when the vehicle is deregistered, tax is not due, even though the numbers are not downloaded and not returned, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-29.u274	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Would you like a douche? You don't want to. That was actually the last question for you today. Thank you for your participation. It was also the last question about today's parliamentary control. The next meeting, honourable Members, was extraordinary on 2 February 2016. Tuesday, 11:00 p.m. I am adjourning today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
