ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, in view of the pace at which the Programme is going for this week and as we have been expecting from Standing Committees the presentation of reports on several bills, which is already a fact, I propose on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be included in the Weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for 21 and 22 July 2016, the following additional points: First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The reports of the three committees to which it is assigned are presented. Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. A second vote report was presented, this morning you were sent to the e-mails, consensus was reached on the texts..................................................... First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Law on Radio and Television for Friday, as point one, July 22nd. Importers are Slavcho Atanasov, Valeri Simeonov, Nayden Zelenogorski, Dimitar Glavchev and Rosen Petrov. Please vote. They voted 132 MPs: 112 against 2, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. From the debates on the first vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax in yesterday's plenary session, I announced on the basis of art. 69 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly that the vote at first reading of the Bill will take place today, as it is under the Rules, at the beginning of the plenary session. I therefore put to the first vote the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Corporate Income Tax Act. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 132 MPs: 91, against 5, abstention 36. The motion is accepted. The next item of the weekly programme: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDA. The first, No 654-01-72, was submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 31 May this year. The second, No 654-01-88, was submitted by Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs on 8 June this year. Reports of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy have been submitted to us by Mr. Ademov, as well as a report by the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports on Mrs. Ninova's first draft Law and a group of MPs. We're listening, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u2	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 654-01-72, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 13 July 2016 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Ms. Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Insurance Relations and Conditions of Employment at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by the MP Georgi Gokov. In his exhibition he pointed out that this amendment to the Labour Code can be considered a step in the social protection of families with young children. The bill proposes measures exactly this way. With it, young people will be encouraged to start families and plan the birth of children, as a determining factor in this regard is the upbringing and upbringing of children. To this end, there is a need to protect the exercise of the right to work not only of the mother of a child or children up to 3 years of age, as is current legislation, but also to protect the right to work and the father of a child or children up to 3 years of age, thus ensuring that money is provided to raise and raise children at an early age. This period is especially important for the child because it forms his character and manifests the first individual abilities that the child develops during the years of his growth to build him up as a person. In this regard, the importers of the Bill suggest fathers of children up to three years old and the spouses of pregnant women to receive the same social protection against dismissal as mothers under Bulgarian law. This will ensure full social protection for young families in terms of their labour rights. The most important result of this change will be ensuring peace and financial security of Bulgarian families in the most important period for raising children. In order to make this possible, importers propose to change art. 333 of the Labor Code. It complements several new texts, which, according to importers, ensure that a worker or employee who is a father and who lives together with a child up to three years of age in a household or father who lives with a mother of a child up to three years of age and takes care of him in the household or husband of a pregnant woman cannot be dismissed by his employer by applying the same procedure that applies to pregnant women and mothers with children up to three years of age. This protection is alternative to the mother and is applied in cases where she does not receive income up to three years of age of the child. According to the reasons of the Bill Bulgaria is in severe demographic crisis. According to national statistics, the population is steadily ageing and decreasing. The state has no concept of dealing with this extremely important problem. It can only be solved by promoting birth rates in the country. In the Commission were received and provided to the importer of the draft and the members of the Commission opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria, KT. The opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy states that it should be borne in mind that the Labour Code regulates the labour relations between the employee and the employer and other relations directly related to them. This cannot therefore be accepted a proposal to amend its texts only in order to ensure full social protection for young families and those living on a family basis. Protection under the current article. 333 of the Labour Code refers to cases of termination of employment for categories of workers and employees on personal grounds, as vulnerable groups such as workers who suffer from a certain disease, employees' representatives and others. It could be said that the proposals in the bill govern the rights of persons arising from the right of the holder of the right of the mother of a child up to 3 years old, a pregnant worker or employee, a worker or an employee at an advanced stage of treatment in vitro, i.e. these are not rights arising from the performance of the employment of those persons. For these reasons, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not support the bill. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria refrains from support, the Bulgarian Industrial Association shares the reasons of the bill, but strongly object to the extension of the circle of persons under special protection in the event of dismissal under art. 333 of the Labor Code. The CST supports the proposed changes and believes that they are a step forward in ensuring more social protection of families with young children in Bulgaria, but they need to be found in an accurate version of the proposed texts. The Confederation of Labour "Supports" supports the Bill and believes that with the expansion of the categories of workers or employees for which protection is applied, certain financial security and calmness of families raising young children will be guaranteed. The discussion was attended by the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Dr. Venka Stoyanova, Dr. Hassan Ademov. After the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 3 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Perhaps the next report on the next bill proposed by Mr. Hristov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u4	♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 654-01-88, submitted by Rumen Dimitrov Hristov and a group of MPs The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 13 July 2016 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code submitted by Rumen Dimitrov Hristov. The meeting was attended by Rumyana Mihailova, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Radostka Savova, Head of the Department of State Aids and Regulation at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Mr. Velichka Mikova, Expert in the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria and others. The bill was presented by the National Representative Dimitar Gechev of the Parliamentary Group of GERB. According to the reasons of the bill, the amendments to art. 114a of the Labour Code are aimed at easing procedures for the conclusion, registration and reporting of day-to-day contracts. An extension of the time limit for the conclusion and reporting of day-to-day contracts for short-term seasonal agricultural work awarded by a registered farmer is proposed. It is envisaged that the day-to-day employment contract may be concluded at a later stage, namely on the last day of the month concerned. The provision of coupons shall be made available to the seasonal worker and the other part shall be kept by the employer. The wage will be paid daily, at the end of the working day, for a receipt. The arrangements for documenting and reporting spent time in the employment relationship for short-term seasonal agricultural work, the type of coupons, the protocol and the model contract, as well as their receipt and reporting to the labour inspection will be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, agreed with the Governor of the National Insurance Institute and with the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. Dropping the obligation to draw up the contract on the day of the employment of the worker will make it easier for farmers, especially those who have smaller operational and administrative capabilities. The bill will have no negative financial impact on the budget. The importers' expectations are to increase efficiency in the sector. The Commission received and submitted to the importers of the Bill and the members of the Commission opinions of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, AICB, KT The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the AICB support the bill. According to their opinions, the proposed amendments to art.114a further develop and refine the current text of the Law. KT "Support" and the CST find the proposal to be extremely unacceptable. According to them, it does not achieve the stated objective, namely "enlightenment of the sector, as well as the relief of farmers. They also dispute the type, content and nature of the so-called one-day contract of employment. The discussion was attended by the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Svetlana Angelova, Hasan Ademov and Georgi Gokov. After the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 8 votes (for) and 2 votes (for) and 4 votes (for) abstention, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee adopted the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for amendment and supplement to the Labour Code, No 654-01-88, submitted by Rumen Dimitrov Hristov and a group of MPs on July 08, 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Following is a report from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Mr. Ivan Cholakov, Vice-President of the Commission, will present it. He referred to the Bill submitted by Mrs. Ninova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'd like to introduce you. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 654-01-72, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 31 May 2016. The bill was presented by the MP Radoslav Stoychev. In its presentation, the importer defines the proposed amendments and additions as measures for the social protection of families with young children. In this regard, the amendments and additions to art. 333 of the Labour Code, importers of the bill offer fathers of children up to three years old, as well as spouses of pregnant women to receive the same social protection for dismissal as mothers under Bulgarian law. The Ministry of Labour, as well as both employers' organisations, do not support the bill by presenting the following arguments: The Labour Code regulates labour relations between the worker and the employer, as well as other relations directly related to them. Secondly: extending the circle of pre-employment workers increases the employer's administrative burden and especially for small enterprises with 9 to 50 employees. During the discussion it was stressed that the proposed amendments and additions were not directly related to the solution of the demographic crisis. In addition, given that the Labour Code regulates employment relations between the employee and the employer, the place of similar legislation aimed at full social protection is social legislation or other regulatory instruments. After the discussion was concluded and a vote with results was held: the draft amendment and supplement to the Labour Code, No 654-01-72, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 31 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u7	Thank you, Mr. Cholakov. These are actually the three reports on the two bills. On behalf of the importer Mr. Gokov, you will present the bill you submitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the importers, I would like to present to you the draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Labour Code and the reasons with which we have tabled it. I suppose you're all familiar with the texts of the Bill and the reasons for it, and I hardly need to present it in detail because this Bill has gained a lot of media popularity. Still, I'll take the liberty of saying a few words on it. The defence procedure under art. 333 of the Labour Code is a precondition which the employer is obliged to comply with when carrying out the dismissal of categories of workers and employees specified in the norm of the art itself. 333. Under the provisions of this Article, certain categories of workers and employees enjoy prior protection in the event of dismissal and the protection itself is expressed in a preliminary request for permission from the Labour Inspection on a case-by-case basis where the person to be fired falls within some of the categories groups. For example, when the employer wants to fire a worker or employee who is the mother of a child up to the age of three, it is subject to the so-called pre-employment protection. With the proposed by us Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code we propose amendments to the article in question. 333 of the Labour Code to ensure that a worker or employee who is a parent or adopter of a child up to three years of age when living in a household and a worker or employee who lives on a marital basis with a mother of a child up to three years of age when living in a household will benefit from the same protection in case of dismissal which applies to mothers with children up to three years of age. We also offer a change in art. 333, para. 5 sentence first of the Code, according to which pregnant workers or employees, workers or employees in advanced stage of treatment in vitro, as well as spouses or married persons with pregnant or advanced stage of treatment in vitro women may be fired only with prior permission of the Labour Inspection. This is essentially our bill, and our motives are that we aim with it to ensure full social protection for young families in terms of their labour rights. Bulgaria is in severe demographic crisis. According to national statistics, the population is steadily ageing and decreasing. I'm not going to quote numbers because I think we're all perfectly aware of our country's demographic problem in this room. The state has no concept of dealing with this extremely important problem, and young families must be encouraged in any way to plan, create and raise children, and the state in turn to ensure that they are implemented with serious social protection measures. The most important in this direction is to ensure the safety of both parents or adoptive parents of children up to three years of age, of pregnant women, workers or employees in advanced stage in vitro treatment and of spouses living with them on a marital basis. There is nothing more important than raising and raising children in early childhood than the two parents with whom they have guaranteed employment benefits resulting from a protected right to work. The reason for extending protection against fathers is the fact that in most Bulgarian families the father is the main factor that provides financial stability in raising children. The risk of his dismissal in the period until the age of three is causing uncertainty in the Bulgarian families and disincentives them to create a new generation. In our view, along with financial instability in the country, this is one of the factors to grow the number of families with only one child and the birth rate as a whole to be low. Another motive is that there is now protection in firing a worker and an employee who is a mother or pregnant but does not work with their husbands, and they are equal parents. I mean, we have some elements of discrimination. I can talk more about the bill and my motives for its adoption, but I doubt it's necessary. I would just like to point out that there is no clear rejection of our proposal in the observations received in principle. As if the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation was also viewed as such. The unions supported the Bill and the employers' organizations expressed concerns and generally disapproval. There may be talk of changes in the texts between the first and second votes, because in the discussion in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy and in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, and in some of the opinions on the Bill there is concern about ambiguity in the interpretation of the texts and the possibility of abuse of that protection. There's another worry I'm going to take the liberty of sharing with you. This is that in the opinions of employers' organizations, although it has nothing to do with the submitted bill, they have not missed this time to speak and to rule on art. 163 of the Labour Code, which refers to leave due to pregnancy, birth and adoption and to ask for its revision in the direction of reducing this leave. Once again, I say: although it has nothing to do with the subject of the submitted bill. I do not consider it valid that we have in any way violated the Law on Legislative Acts, because there were no financial and other estimates of the funds needed to implement the new regulation. Also the expected results of implementation and analysis of compliance with European Union law. I believe that these are unfounded allegations, because the requirements of the Law on Laws are at least applicable to this bill. They are much more relevant for, for example, the other bill, for art. 114a of the Labour Code, where there were no estimates at all at the time of the adoption, is missing and now when it changes. Dear Members of Parliament, in conclusion, I would point out that the rejection of this Draft by the National Assembly, as rejected by the Labour and Social Policy Committee, will not be tragic, but it will be a clear sign that the problems of young people and young families are not conscious in depth, that we still do not understand today what makes young people run away from Bulgaria and that this is precisely the lack of a guarantee for social security. I'm done here. The decision is yours, but think that this will be a sign of attention to the problems of young people and young families and a sign from the National Assembly whether they want to solve the problems of these young people or not. Support, please, the Bill! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u9	Thank you, Mr. Gokov, for stopping within ten minutes. Mrs. Angelova, you will motivate the proposal of the other bill. You're part of the importers. You have every right. We're listening with interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code is aimed at reducing the administrative procedure for the conclusion, registration and reporting of the day-to-day contracts under art. 114a of the Labor Code. With the amendment and the supplement of the Labour Code in July last year the provision of art. 114a, regulating day-to-day employment contracts for short-term seasonal work. In this way, a new type of short-term employment contract was created in the Bulgarian legislation, enabling unqualified labor for manual processing and harvesting of fruits, vegetables, pink color and lavender. Employers who can conclude these employment contracts are also limited. They must be registered farmers. In general, the application of these contracts has a beneficial effect on employment in the sector. In support of this is the fact and information that was delivered by the General Labour Inspectorate that in one year the registered day-to-day contracts are nearly 200,000. In April, in the National Assembly there was a meeting with branch associations of farmers who benefit from this new type of employment contract with the members of the two committees: the Labour and Social Policy Committee and the Agriculture Commission. At this meeting they highlighted their problems regarding the implementation of day-to-day contracts. As the most important problem they have pointed out, this is the time needed to complete and register these contracts. In the midst of a harvest campaign on one day, 200 people are employed and it is impossible to fill in 200 contracts and 300 contracts to be registered on the same day in one day. This takes 3 hours or the employer has to hire extra for a fee people who are specifically involved in this campaign with the completion and registration of these employment contracts. All these problems have brought about the legislative initiative, which today is your attention, in order to simplify the procedures for hiring workers to such contracts. With this Bill, we propose an extension of the time limit for the conclusion and registration of day-to-day contracts and the registered farmer is obliged to conclude the day-to-day contract with the seasonal worker at the latest on the last day of the month in question. Dropping the obligation to draw up the contract on the day of hiring the worker will significantly alleviate farmers, the majority of which also have less administrative capacity. It is envisaged that at the beginning of the working day the employer will provide the worker with a sample of the labour inspectorate and the other part of the cut will be kept in the employer himself, after which the cuts will be attached to the employment contract. At the beginning of the working day, the employer or an official appointed by him shall draw up a protocol on a model containing the date of work and the number of workers employed for the day in question. The employer shall be obliged to take into account, to keep a record of the hours worked and of the remuneration paid for each worker, providing that the remuneration may be paid at the end of the working day or once for the days worked during the calendar month concerned, but not later than the last day of the month concerned. If all these proposals are accepted in the Labour Code, we will make it easier and easier for farmers who employ workers on day-to-day employment contracts and increase activity and employment in the agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. My fellow Members, I recall only before I discover the debates that they can be on both bills in parallel. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov first asked for the floor, then to prepare the people representative Dimitar Bajraktarov. Dear colleague Stoilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm going to say a few sentences on both bills. I will start with the bill submitted by Mrs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. I support this bill. It is completely in the spirit of the recently adopted Law on Gender Equality. The importers have already made a justification for the bill. Even if it seems to you that this protection will simultaneously extend to both parents, it can be considered if the bill is supported at first reading, at least to choose which of the parents to benefit from this protection, if employers think too much it doubles its scope. Because in some cases, parents may feel that those who have a better job, a better reward, will need additional protection. I therefore call on you to truly demonstrate the necessary social sensitivity and to continue the discussion on this bill. In addition, when laws-losunges are adopted, as is the Law on Gender Equality itself, and then I spoke, but when such well-sounding slogans are proposed, it doesn't really matter whether they come from the government or from the opposition. A high mood is created, and at the same time, it seems that a concern to speak seriously about these issues as if it were not legislation but some political directives which, within the framework of the politically correct tone, must be supported by everyone. So much more real are the discussions on such bills that affect specific social and labour rights, rather than the adoption of framework laws-losunges, which in all other cases do not seem to reproduce a real regulatory effect. So much for the first bill. On the second bill, the amendments to the Labour Code introduced by a number of MPs must tell you that when one step is taken, it usually encourages importers to do the next. And when it goes down the wrong path, it usually deepens the problems that have been created. I was also one of the few who challenged the day-to-day contracts, at least as they were offered. We see that the appetite comes with the eating and now offers something unheard of in our labour legislation, and also justified by people from the Social Committee. Because when drafts come from the Committee on Agriculture, I am always almost alert, because in most cases these bills govern the interests of certain groups or companies, and they are very far from what really governs in a balanced and universal way public relations in the area concerned. And I say again, if this was just an initiative by the lobbyists of certain agricultural employers, it could somehow be explained. Some strange construction is to conclude a work contract not at the time of the creation of the labor, but after the completion of some fiction that will wait for the work to be done, it is said that this will motivate and discipline the workers further. I even suggest you consider giving employers the right to use whips, suspensions and others [[Laughter]] , in order to be able to act so and the employees to work, to work as much as they are told, for as much money and for as many days as it takes. In any case, I do not underestimate the fact that in Bulgaria the level of organization and discipline in the labour process is falling, which makes it difficult for efficiency and which is really an obstacle to the conscientious employers. But this is an overall theme of the state in Bulgarian society and respect for labour. That's not what I'm offering you. If you want to have such contracts, nothing prevents contracts from being concluded at the beginning of the operation. This is a good idea with cuttings and can safely be included in the working conditions that all the rights due will be realized at the end of the month, depending on the amount and quality of the work. Therefore, it is not necessary to settle the firm remuneration of the worker in the contract concluded. This remuneration will be calculated after the additional application of these cuts but already on an existing contract. This will remain the main element, which will stimulate the worker to do the work for which he has made a commitment. In addition, there is no obstacle if the employer fails to fulfil the obligations, to unilaterally terminate this contract and then not to pay him for the remaining days. These are solutions that can be achieved, but because the interests of both sides are not being balanced, but as is easier for someone to do the work he has planned, these are also the results of such legislative activity. Therefore, we cannot support such a bill, which deviates from basic principles of labour law. When one party works without a contract, some complications or damage may arise in the process of labouring, which will be more difficult to make demands later, since it is only about paying day-to-day wages than settling employment relationships. This is the practice that I have called Mr. for a day, because with this Bill you are proving that these people will not actually be hired for a day, they will be hired for weeks or for a month, but instead to regulate and obtain the remuneration according to the number of days worked, this erzac is obtained, which is the basis for the labour law in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u13	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. You've been quite figurative in your speech. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Bajraktarov, you are the second to sign up for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would really like to ask you to have a little more attention right now, and I will only speak on the bill concerning the day-to-day contracts, in particular Article. 114a. The information you will receive now is extremely disturbing and disturbing, but to make it clear, I will read para. 3 of the current Acting Art. 114a, which reads as follows: The Labour Treaty under para. 1 can be concluded for professions not requiring special qualifications in the main economic activity. Period! The text is clear and clear. Last year at exactly this time, honourable Members, we accepted art. 114a for day-to-day employment contracts with good intentions to be a light sector............................................................................................ The information provided to us at the time was that the text would cover between 80 and 100,000. people who will thus be involved in the field of social security and labour law. The last few days I have made a lot of effort and I would like to thank the official institutions that have helped to collect and this information will become available to you today. Before me is a reference which I can provide to all colleagues, for employers on economic activities who have concluded day-to-day contracts. You yourself decide whether these employers are in the sector....................................................................................................... I begin to read them: accounting and auditing activities, real estate management, real estate agencies, freight road transport, retail trade in other non-food goods, n.e.c., retail trade in other food goods, wholesale trade in solid, liquid and gas fuels, typical agricultural activity, construction of other equipment, production and processing of other wood products, production of other glass products and so on, 70% of these employers have nothing in common with the sector I'm moving on, fellow Members. We have done our jobs and I can read to you how the day-to-day contracts have been concluded in areas, for which I would again like to thank all the fellow civil servants who have helped gather this information. The information is very interesting. By the way, if you don't know where the soft plant farming in Bulgaria is, Dr. Ademov already knows because yesterday I informed him as Chairman of the Labour Committee...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u15	Is it Sofia?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u16	Yeah, it's not just Sofia, because there's a Sofia area, it's Sofia-city! [[Laughter, excitement.]] Sofia-city is the soft of plant farming, and in May 2224 persons have concluded day-to-day contracts. Colleagues, what is the number of these day contracts at the moment I can't tell you because I couldn't get that information. I got it late last night. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u17	Please don't enter into a debate with the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u18	Dear colleagues, it is appropriate to remind you that the introduction of art. 114a came with a bill which envisaged the member to be valid until 31 December 2015. Suddenly last year during a second reading, two Members of the National Assembly, who unfortunately do not see in the Chamber today, proposed that the text be valid constantly. I did everything I could to keep him here until December 31st, for which there are shorthands, to have the opportunity to do an in-depth analysis. Unfortunately, this was not accepted. However, the saddest thing today is another, honourable Members. I have yet another reference to the number of registered farmers, which is even more worrying if you look at it thoroughly. I'll give you a comparative analysis that I'm still finishing, and I can't be adamant that it's accurate. There are 36 487 farmers registered in June 2015. In June 2016, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 June 2016 to 25 June 2016. 9320 farmers import insurance, i.e. almost 27 thousand. farmers less! With relevant experts, we find and have reasonable doubts to believe that a scheme for draining the social funds of the Republic of Bulgaria has been established. The scheme was created by introducing extremely vicious amendments last year by introducing para. In Article 10, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 of the Social Security Code. I read it to you verbatim: The faces of art. 114, para. 1 of the Labour Code is subject to disability insurance due to general illness, old age and death and occupational accident and occupational disease. The first grounds that I was told last night by my fellow experts in this area are that there is a drain under disability pensions and hospital emergency. We hope to get even more detailed and analytical information. Dear colleagues, another vicious practice has been introduced by changes in the Transitional and Final Provisions in the Employment Promotion Act, in the Social Assistance Act to violate the basic principle laid down in art. 3 of the Social Security Code, namely the principle of equality. The vast majority of Bulgarian citizens, when they enter into an employment contract, cannot stop any payment of benefits and benefits, but another category, just because they are illiterate and undereducated, with special changes in the Law this privilege to preserve! This is also at odds in full nonsense with world labour legislation! My fellow Members, I think I have given you enough information that is indeed extremely disturbing. Therefore, in my speech, Madam President, I will also make a procedural proposal which I ask my fellow Members to support. My fellow Members, my procedural proposal is to put an end to the debate on this bill concerning day-to-day contracts...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u19	There is no way to support a first reading termination, we can only postpone.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u20	Let us postpone the debate, as we need to gather all the information and assess how we will proceed further. My opinion is that art. 114a must be repealed by the Labour Code. There is an art. 68, which gives all possibilities and is much more relieved. Once again, Madam President, I am making a procedural proposal to postpone the debates on the bill concerning changes in art. 114a of the Labour Code, as information is extremely disturbing and hasty decisions should not be taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a debate procedure on the first vote of two laws: the first one with importers Ms. Nino and a group of MPs, the second one with importers Mr. Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. There has been a procedural proposal to postpone the debate. A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to postpone the debate. Vote 112 MPs: 92 against 3, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE ACTION OF THE COURTS IN 2014 AND A REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE ACTION OF THE COURTS IN 2015 The Commission's opinion on legal issues with draft decisions on both reports was delivered, for 2014 and 2015, respectively. Mrs. Alexandrova will present the reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! "COMMODITY" on a report on the application of the Law and the Courts' activities in 2014, No 611-00-2, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 27 May 2016 and a Report on the application of the Law and the Courts' activities in 2015, No 630-00-4, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 7 June 2016. In its meeting held on 22 June 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of the Courts in 2014, No 611-00-2, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 27 May 2016 and the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of the Courts in 2015, No 630-00-4, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 7 June 2016. The meeting was attended by the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Mr. Lozan Panov, who presented the reports on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the courts in 2014 and 2015. The reports are prepared on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary. Mr. Panov expressed the need for urgent measures to optimize the work of the judiciary, focusing on the workload of judges, the need for judicial buildings, training and improving the qualification of judges, judicial administration and information and technical provision. As a reason for the slow justice and public distrust and doubt in the effectiveness of the judiciary, he pointed out the uneven workload of the courts and announced that in 2014 and 2015, the average workload for the appeals courts was 8,45, respectively, 8,71 cases per month, while the workload of the judges at the Sofia Court of Appeal was 11,51 and 12,29 cases per month, respectively. He noted that the Court of Appeal and the Court of Appeal had an average of 2,45 and 1,28 cases per month for 2014 and 2,06 and 1,47 cases per month for 2015. Regionally, the workload of the District Courts is also very different, with the average monthly workload of the Sofia City Court being 46,67 cases for 2014 and 32,66 cases for 2015 as in areas such as Kardzhali, Montana, Targovishte and Yambol respectively the monthly workload is between 5-6,7 cases per month. Mr. Panov pointed out that the biggest difference in the workload of the judges is in the work of the district judges. In the Sofia District Court, the average monthly workload is 124,35 cases for 2014 and 117,25 cases for 2015, respectively, in district courts such as Trun, Ardino, Krumovgrad, Ivaylovgrad and Topolovgrad judges have less than 20 cases per month. As a decision to deal with the uneven burden of judges, he identified the redesign of the judicial card, noting that concrete actions in this direction were taken in 2014 and related to the restructuring of some of the military courts and the optimization of the district courts. As a result, a decision of the SJC of 6 February 2014 closed the Court of Military Court of Pleven and the Court of Military Court of Varna, as well as their respective prosecutions. The aim of optimizing the work of the courts, according to Mr. Panov, is to develop such a methodology for determining the workload of the courts, which will take into account in addition to the number of cases their legal and factual complexity. As positive in resolving the issue of the uneven workload of the courts, the legislative proposals made in 2014 were taken into account for amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure and the Civil Procedure Code adopted in 2015 and which led to the reduction of the number of cases received in the Supreme Court of Cassation and the focus of the work of the Supreme Court on uniformising the practice of courts and its genuine interpretation. He pointed out that despite the efforts in 2014 and 2015, there was still a shortage of courtrooms and rooms, with this shortage in the city. Sofia, gr. Varna, gr. Plovdiv, gr. Veliko Tarnovo, gr. Blagoevgrad, gr. Oryahovo, gr. Etropole and gr. Plum. Due to the lack of funds and delayed procedures in 2015, no necessary repairs and reconstructions were carried out in the buildings of a number of courts, such as in the city. Karlovo, gr. Panagyurishte, gr. Montana and gr. Yambol, where urgent repairs are needed. The failure to provide access to the buildings of the judicial authorities was also considered a major problem. A positive assessment in the 2014 report was given to the training model of the National Institute of Justice, indicating that 2499 judges, 101 judicial assistants and 1983 judicial officers took part in various forms of training. As important highlights in the trainings in 2014 are taken into account the increase in the qualification of magistrates in the field of refugee law, the additional trainings on the topic of corruption crimes. As a priority for improving the work of the courts in 2014 and 2015, the need to determine the number of employees in the courts in relation to the workload of the court concerned is indicated, taking into account the specifics of the individual units. The total ratio of employees to the number of magistrates is 1.33 in 2014 and 1.31 in 2015. The greatest need for employees is observed in the Sofia Court of Appeal, where the ratio of magistrates to employee is 1,11 in 2014 respectively 1,06 in 2015, while this attitude in the Court of Military Appeal is respectively 2,00 and 2,17 employees of one magistrate. A single information system of individual courts was successfully integrated in 2014 and 2015 was the introduction of electronic justice and the creation of an electronic file on each case, electronic exchange of documents and the service of electronic subpoenas, and the question of introducing minimum standards on the website of different courts remained open in 2015. In the light of the data presented in the 2014 report, the number of all cases to be examined, except those at the Supreme Court of Cassation, is 655 297, of which 465 437 cases were closed in substance, 81 025 cases were dismissed and 108 835 cases were closed at the end of the year. For 2015, the number of cases examined was 623 680, of which 448 123 were closed cases by legal act in substance, 77 895 were dismissed cases and 97 664 were pending cases at the end of the year. At the same time, the number of judges in the district courts in 2014 was 777 judges and they had 115 230 cases to deal with and in 2015 their number was 781 judges with a total number of cases to deal with 114 550 cases. The data show that in 2014 the trend towards the reduction of new cases in the district courts was observed. In the district courts of the district centres, the number of judges in 2014 was 631, with the total number of cases to be examined being 343 720. For 2015, the judicial state of the district courts of the district centers is 639 and they are assigned 359 543 cases. In the other district courts, the number of Judges is 361 Judges for 2014 and 356 Judges for 2015 respectively and the number of cases which they have dealt with is 125,961 for 2014 and 132,670 cases for 2015. The average workload of judges in all courts is respectively 30,17 cases per month for 2014 and 32,1 cases for 2015. For district courts in district centres, data show a monthly workload of 59,20 cases for 2014 and 61,32 cases for 2015. In the district courts, the workload per month was 15,49 cases for 2014 and 14,69 cases for 2015, with 8,45 cases for 2014 and 8,71 cases for 2015 in the appeals courts respectively. The data show an uneven burden on the judges of the appeals and district courts, while for the two years the trend of very low workload in military and specialised criminal courts remains. The orders were 51%, and 54% of the cases in 2014 and 2015, respectively, indicating that the actual workload of the regional courts increased. In criminal cases, the highest number of cases in 2014 were considered for property crimes, followed by general criminal offences and crimes against the holding and the person. In 2015, the number of cases under consideration for general criminal offences followed by crimes against property, holding and personality was the highest. A total of 13 349 cases, of which 2032 cases in the Criminal College, 7519 cases in the Civil College and 3808 cases in the Commercial College were received in 2014. In 2015, the cases entered were 11,748, of which 1669 in the Criminal College, 6367 in the Civil College and 3712 in the Commercial College. The analysis shows that the total number of cases to be examined, together with those not completed by 1 January 2015, was 16 193, with 12 113 cases solved in 2015 and 13 377 in 2014. In 2014, there were 682 penal acts issued by the Courts of Appeal and in 2015 their number was 743. At the same time, in 2014, one quarter of the criminal cases entered were dismissed and returned to the appeals courts for a new hearing, with 14% of the cases cancelled and returned for 2015. The acts of the Sofia City Court and the district courts under which Cassation Control was carried out are 720 cases for 2014 and 640 cases for 2015, with at least cases received from the district courts in the cities of Silistra, Smolyan, Targovishte and Pernik. With the best indicators according to the powers exercised by the ICC in 2014 are the penal acts of: the CCC, the District Court of Haskovo, the District Court of Blagoevgrad, the District Court of Plovdiv, and the District Court of Pazardzhik, and in the current 2015 data point to the least returned cases of: the District Court of Blagoevgrad, the CCC, the District Court of Justice of Plovdiv, and the District Court of Pazardzhik. In 2014, the Criminal College of the VCC examined 550 cases of regional courts, of which 365 in private proceedings, with data for 2015: 478 cases of which 332 of a private nature. The analysis of the reasons for the annulment of the judgments shows that the most common ground for annulment is a material infringement of procedural rules in the judgment of the act. The subject of an examination before the Civil College of the ICC in 2014 are 1402 acts of appeal brought by appeals courts, and 100 cases have been dismissed and returned to the Court of Appeal, 23 The number of appeals in the case of admissibility of a cassation appeal is 999, of which 299 " 30%" are admitted to cassation. For 2015, a total of 1380 acts of the appeals courts were examined and 92 cases were dismissed and returned to the Courts of Appeal. The unsuccessful appeal shall be 813 acts or 59% of the total number of acts. The subject of a cassation check by the district courts in 2014 are 5122 cases, of which the proceedings for the admission of a cassation appeal are 3188, with 2452 cases In 2015, the subject of a cassation check of 4450 cases handed down by the district courts, with 2653 cases not admitted to cassation, or 60% of all acts. The subject of applications for annulment of an entry into force decision and annulment of the return of applications for annulment are 453 acts for 2014 and 392 acts for 2015. The discussion was attended by the MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev. Mr. Slavov raised the issue of the overcharge of the district courts and of the possibility of redistribution of order proceedings to other district courts in the country. Mr. Panov noted that electronic justice is a priority in the judicial system, but on the occasion of the possibility of the redistribution of ordered proceedings between the other district courts, the principle of accidental distribution of cases should be taken into account and that the applicant submitted the application for an order for enforcement in a court which is convenient for him and should receive the court order from the same court where the application was lodged. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for the Council of Justice on 27 May 2016, and the Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of the Courts in 2014, No 611.02, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 27 May 2016, and the Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of the Courts in 2015, No 630.04, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 7 June 2016, and proposed to the National Assembly draft decisions on their adoption.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. The debate is open. Colleagues who wish to speak? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u24	I'd like the floor by procedure, Mr. Chairman. I propose admission to the President of the Supreme Administrative Court Mr. Georgi Kolev on this and the following reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u25	Thank you. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Danail Kirilov. Vote 84 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Anyone who wants to make a speech? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u26	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I offer your attention. Project! DECISION on the adoption of the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of Courts in 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of Courts in 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u27	Thank you. There will be two votes since there are two reports. I shall put to the vote the proposed decision of the Legal Committee. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the courts in 2014 was adopted. Please read the other decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u28	Project! DECISION on the adoption of a Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of the Courts in 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of the Courts in 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u29	Thank you. Colleagues, we are voting on the proposed report by the Legal Committee. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the courts in 2015 was adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE WORK OF ADMINISTRATIVE COURTS IN 2014 AND A REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE WORK OF ADMINISTRATIVE COURTS IN 2015 The report will be presented by Mr. Daniel Kirilov of the Legal Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, I present to your attention an opinion. "COMMODITY" on the Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2014, No 511-00-7, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 5 August 2015, and the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2015, No 611-00-4, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 13 June 2016. In its meeting held on 22 June 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2014, No 511-00-7, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 5 August 2015, and a Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of Administrative Courts in 2015, No 611-00-4, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 13 June 2016. The meeting was attended by the Chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court Mr. Georgi Kolev. The report was presented by Mr. Georgi Kolev. He stressed that the reports reported the judicial, interpretation and international activities of the Supreme Administrative Court. All statistics of the two Colleges of the Supreme Administrative Court (VAS) are detailed. The priorities and main objectives for its development are outlined, aimed at improving the qualification of judges and judicial officers, improving the main areas of court management, improving the human resources management process, introducing a single legal and information system related to e-Justice, with a view to quality and effective justice. Mr. Kolev noted that the main obligation and power of the court is focused on the uniformity of administration in the administrative law enforcement system, which is a key instrument in the activities of the Supreme Court is the adoption of interpretive decisions binding on administrative courts. In 2014 the Supreme Administrative Court, the Chief Prosecutor of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, initiated six cases for ruling with interpretive decisions, initiated by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Chief Prosecutor of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. The General Assembly of the Colleges of SAC has produced four interpretation decisions in the case of incorrect and contradictory caselaw. The procedure has been laid down and rules have been adopted for the adoption of joint interpretation decrees from the General Assemblys of the Judges of the Criminal, Civil and Commercial College of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the First and Second College of the Court of First and Second Colleges of the Supreme Courts, resulting in the adoption of the first two in the history of the two Supreme Courts of Interpretation decrees. In 2015, eight cases of requests for interpretation were initiated by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria, the President of the Supreme Council of Law, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Minister of Justice. The General Assembly of the Colleges of SAC has produced eight interpretation decisions and one definition. There is a trend with the changes in the legislation relating to the conviction of the cases dealt with by the SAC to become a cassation instance of the cases dealt with by the administrative courts. This leads to the uneven distribution of cases in the divisions of the court, which requires additional measures to be taken, such as an increase in the number of judges. That is why Mr. Kolev pointed out that changes to the legislation on the conviction that would lead to the unloading of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Administrative Court of Sofia-City, which courts are most heavily burdened. In 2015, 14 931 cases took place in the Supreme Administrative Court, comparing them to 16 149 in 2014. Pc 17 181, in 2012 " 15 718 pcs. " and 2011 pcs. 16 970 pcs. The total number of cases to be examined in 2015 was 20,521, and in 2014. 20, 937. It is apparent to reduce the number of cases received, unlike the previous reporting periods. The number of substantive administrative cases in the SAC for 2015 is 14 301 and for 2014 is 15 351 pcs. while maintaining the trend during both reporting periods the number of legal acts drawn up within one month is more than 80% of the total number of cases completed. The trend and the ratio for the preparation of judicial acts shall remain visible from the statistics presented within the time limit, with lasting efficiency and stability in the judicial activities of the Supreme Court, due both to the organisation of the judicial process and to the high personal motivation and professionalism of magistrates. It should also be noted the comparative analysis in the information board, about the state of justice of the European Union, where in terms of the index of speed of justice and the second year in a row the Bulgarian administrative courts take a third position. In the 2014 accounting period, 86 Judges for the first six months and 88 Judges worked on an establishment plan at the SAC during the second one, leaving and retiring a total of four Judges. In view of the considerable volume of work in 2014, a total of 13 Judges were posted during different periods of time. In 2015, 88 judges worked in the Supreme Administrative Court and despite measures taken to balance the workload between the individual judges, five new state figures were revealed. The report shall provide summary information on the activities of administrative courts in 2014, which shall include data on cases received and done during the year for each administrative court, on the quality of judicial acts and the period for the resolution of disputes. [[Noise and lines.]] It should be noted that both in the SA and in the administrative courts there is a reduction in the number of cases received, unlike in the previous reporting period. The average monthly workload of administrative judges in the Administrative Court is the largest (29.38 pcs. cases per month; Administrative Court of Burgas (27,69 pcs. cases per month; Administrative Court (24.65 pcs. cases per month; Administrative Court.. Blagoevgrad (22.3 pcs. cases per month; Administrative Court of Haskovo (22.2 pcs. cases per month; Administrative Court of Pazardzhik (19.83 pcs. cases per month); and Administrative Court (17.65 pcs. cases per month). With the slightest workload are: Administrative Court "Tergovishte" (7.33 pcs. cases per month; Administrative Court sliven (8.36 pcs. cases per month; Administrative Court cases per month). [[Noise and lines.]] The activities of the administrative courts in 2015 are summarised by detailed data for each administrative court, including... Mr. Chairman, please make a note to your colleagues in the front row that the phone calls are out of the room and that they don't hit the bank by talking on the phone. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u31	Thank you. I am making a remark to all my colleagues, not only in the front row, but the phone calls are not for the House. I ask my colleagues to follow Mr. Kirilov's report carefully, because there will be a debate after that. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u32	The administrative courts' activity in 2015 is summarised by detailed data for each administrative court, including the number of cases initiated, their movement and distribution of first instance and cassation, the workload of judges and personnel security. A number of proposals for legislative changes to the Administrative Procedure Code and other special laws to lead to more effective and rapid justice are made in a separate structural part of the reports. Their aim is to unload the Supreme Administrative Court as a first instance court so that it can be established as a cassation authority and strengthen its constitutionally defined activity for issuing interpretive decisions. These changes will further burden administrative courts and they will work with full capacity, proposing changes to local defendants to avoid the uneven burden of courts. Specific proposals have been made on the call, the involvement of stakeholders, the time limit for the decision of the administrative body, the judicial proceedings, the regulation of state fees and a change of conviction in certain administrative matters. The proposals for the change in the family court of cases aim to arrange for the possibility of complaints against administrative acts issued by regulatory authorities, agencies and committees to be competent administrative courts as the first instance and thus to dismiss the Supreme Administrative Court of First Instance of the case as the first instance. Mr. Kolev stressed that it is necessary to change the legal framework regarding its jurisdiction in tax matters, and their examination is assigned to all administrative courts and not only to five of them, as is the current regulation. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for the Council of Justice, without the law and the abstentions, adopted a Report on the application of the Law and the activities of the Administrative Courts in 2014, No 511/07, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 5 August 2015, and a Report on the implementation of the Law and on the activities of the Administrative Courts in 2015, No 611'04, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 13 June 2016, and proposed to the National Assembly drafts a decision on their adoption.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u33	Wait a minute, Mr. Kirilov, there has to be a debate. Colleagues may want to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u34	To present the projects and then to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u35	All right, present the projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u36	Let's not tear it apart. Project! DECISION on the adoption of the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of Administrative Courts for 2014 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of Administrative Courts for 2014 Project! DECISION on the adoption of the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of Administrative Courts for 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of the Administrative Courts for 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. After your remarks, colleagues have been actively listening to the report of the Legal Committee, the debate is now open. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? So far, I don't see anyone raising their hand. I ask my fellow Members to take their seats as we are about to vote. I still don't see anyone wanting to make a statement. I am closing the debate and putting the two proposals to a decision of the Legal Commission to a vote. First, the report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the administrative courts for 2014 will be voted. Vote 94 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 3. The report on the implementation of the Law and on the activities of the administrative courts for 2014 has been adopted. I am now voting on the decision adopting the Report on the implementation of the Law and on the activities of the administrative courts for 2015. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the administrative courts for 2015 has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: Report on the application of the Law and on the operation of the Procuratura of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the investigative bodies in 2014 and on the application of the Law and on the operation of the Procuraturature of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the investigative bodies in 2015. Importer is the Supreme Judicial Council on 27 May 2015 and 7 June 2016. The Committee on Legal Affairs has prepared a report. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! "COMMODITY" on a report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the investigating authorities in 2014, No 511-00-5, received on 27 May 2015, and a Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the investigating authorities in 2015, No 630-00-3, received on 7 June 2016. At its meeting held on 22 June 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the Report on the application of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the investigating authorities in 2014, No 511-00-5, received on 27 May 2015, and the Report on the application of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the investigating authorities in 2015, No 630-00-3, received on 7 June 2016. The reports were presented by Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, Prosecutor General. Both reports contain summary data from the reports on the activities of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the National Investigation Service, the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office, the Appeals Prosecutor's Office, the District Prosecutor's Office, the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, the military prosecutions, in the composition of which are: the district investigation departments, the district prosecutors, as well as the investigating officers of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. The reports shall also include the data on the activities of the specialized prosecutor's office, the administrative specialized prosecutor's office and the investigative bodies of the Ministry of Finance. Both reports are structured in sections with the relevant annexes, with a comparative analysis of the data with those of previous years on uniform reporting indicators of prosecutors and investigative bodies. Reports indicate a tendency to reduce registered and exposed crime. Analyses of the main indicators compared to territorial structures and reasons for positive and negative results were presented. The reports set out the continuation of the actions to implement the recommendations of the European Commission reports on Bulgaria's progress under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism and the implementation of the measures contained in the adopted Action Plan for the period 1 September 2013. The Court of Justice's Communication Strategy 2014 - 2020 adopted by Decision of the SJC under Protocol No 10/5 March 2015, including those established by order of the Prosecutor General, a package of measures for enhanced countering corruption and organised crime. A uniform standard for monitoring and reporting cases of this category is in place, a catalogue of corruption crimes has been established and a regulation on monthly reporting and special prosecutorial supervision has been established. The prosecution has conducted a study and discussion of the opinions of prosecutors and investigators on the updated judicial reform strategy by publicly expressing its recommendations and position. To increase efficiency in the criminal trial, the prosecution has submitted to the National Assembly motivated proposals for changes to the Criminal Procedure Code and the Criminal Code. In 2014 the activity of uniformity of the caselaw was activated, as the Prosecutor General in the exercise of his powers under art. 125 of the Law on the Judiciary has referred to the Presidents of the Supreme Courts with requests for the adoption of interpretive decisions. A decrease in total registered crime in the country has been reported for 2014, with 10% of total registered crime in the country (a trend in the last three years). There were 109,799 crimes registered for 2014 2015, of which nearly 10% were economic. The level of disclosure was increased by 2.6 points compared to 2013 and 4.4 points compared to 2014. The solved crimes were 43,874, respectively 45,281, which accounted for about 40% of the registered ones. An analysis has been carried out by types of crime, it is indicated that the trend of low detection of economic crimes is maintained. Predictions have been made to preserve the intensity of the criminogenic situation in terms of domestic crime and crimes against the tax and credit system, with emphasis on fraud and smuggling of excise goods. The structure of registered, exposed and punished crime has been analyzed. Data on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authorities are summarised. Prosecutors worked a total of 318 507, 302 541 for 2015 and 222 839, respectively 201 181 for 2015 pre-trial proceedings (a minor reduction compared to the previous two years). The share of the files solved was 96% for both years and increased compared to the previous year 2013. With the formation of pre-trial proceedings 51 060, respectively 52 532 for 2015, the number of refusals given for pre-trial proceedings was increased, respectively 115 120 for 2015. The new cases were 123 751 for 2014 and 121 541 for 2015, of which 97.18% were investigated by investigative officers in the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior, with a share of 1.78% formed by investigators, and by 0.5% formed by a customs inspector and an agent of the DANS on average for both years. The investigation has been carried out within the statutory deadlines with some exceptions, listing the prosecutions with the most delayed proceedings. A downward trend has been reported in the number of prosecutorial acts submitted to the court, indictments, proposals for agreements and decrees with proposals for the release of criminal liability with the imposition of administrative penalties. He reduced the absolute number of cases returned from the prosecution's court, proportionate to the less submitted acts. The trend during the years of about 5% brought back by court cases is preserved. For 2014 they were 1864 and for 2015. 1710. By 6%, the number of convicted persons has decreased, but their share remains permanently high in relation to all persons with a judgment of 97%. Acquitted persons have a lasting 3% share in the last three years. A comparison was made by district and district prosecutors. An increase has been reported in the number of cases of special public interest. Organized crime, corruption, money laundering, tax and other financial crimes, trafficking in human beings and drugs. In 2014/2015, the number of persons convicted by the Public Prosecutor's Office under the State Responsibility Act and the Municipalities for Harmfulness Act increased in 2015, 298 persons for 2014, with 280 persons for 2013 and 213 persons for 2012. It is necessary that the administrative directors of the prosecutions take effective measures to comply with the legal deadlines of the cases. The section contains key trends and conclusions, necessary measures in the competence of the prosecution, legislative changes in the NK and the PKK, etc. containing concrete proposals of the prosecution. The share of solved prosecutor's files is about 95% in the last three years. The highest is the share of the decrees for refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings for 2015, 122 185 copies for 2014, and the decrees for the formation of pre-trial proceedings were 52 532 for 2015, 51 060 copies for 2014, the latter accounted for 18% of the total number of files. Detailed data are provided by types of investigative bodies, by types of pre-trial proceedings. He has reduced the number of pre-trial proceedings suspended against an unknown perpetrator. The trend of the level of terminated pre-trial proceedings, consisting of 23% of those completed, is preserved. The number of persons in respect of whom requests for the SRS were made was 1200 persons for 2014 and 1287 for 2015 respectively. Unrespected by the court were 2.5%, respectively 10.5 per cent for 2015. The prosecution's activities in the judicial phase have been analyzed. An increase in the relative share of the convictions given in relation to the decisions on the indictments tabled has been reported. They have been convicted in the last three years over 96.6% of the persons against whom judicial decisions were given during the year. It's been analyzed by types of crime. The prosecutions' data on the cases returned by the court and the acquittals were analyzed, the reasons that led to this. The proportion of acquittal sentences and decisions for the two years is about 3%. The trend for the last three years has been preserved. The section takes into account the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office under civil and judicial supervision, analysed in detail the decisions of the court under the State's liability law and the municipalities for damages. ? 306 decisions against the Prosecutor's Office under this Law, with the highest number of claims with legal basis art. 2, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage. There are considerations for problems regarding the application of the Law. The implementation of penalties and other enforcement measures has been analysed. A total of 22 739 for 2014 and 20 960 for 2015 have been implemented, which accounts for more than 93%. The European Commission's observations are 137 criminal proceedings, of which 67 were not completed at the beginning of 2015. This section provides a detailed analysis of pre-trial proceedings initiated for certain categories of serious crimes and those of public interest; the types of penalties imposed as well as the district prosecutors' statistics are listed. The largest is the volume of cases of special public interest in the SGP and SRS region, which observe one third of all such cases in the country. The trend points to an increase in newly formed cases over the last three years and a reduction in the indictments tabled. An analysis of criminal proceedings initiated for crimes committed by minors has been carried out. The trend of reduction has been reported. The activities of prosecutors under International Legal Cooperation are analyzed. For 2014, applications for legal aid were submitted for implementation and the applications received for enforcement were 1203. For 2015, the applications for legal aid were respectively 1078 sent and 1944 received for implementation by the Bulgarian authorities. Received to implement the European Arrest Warrant (OJ C 235, 2014 and 2015) - 311 arrest warrants. Section II analyses the administrative and audit activities of the Prosecutor's Office. As of 1 January 2014, the established state of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria for magistrates was 2 304 and 331 posts were vacant. As of January 1, 2015, the number of magistrates was 2,300 and 352 stats remained vacant. Good personnel collateralization has been established for both prosecutors and employees. A total of 19 disciplinary proceedings against prosecutors were set up for 2014 at 14 for 2015 and 14 orders from the Prosecutor General and the administrative leaders for disciplinary punishment, with 11 for 2015. This section shall take into account and analyse the differentiated workload of prosecutors and investigators in the system, according to their extent and the types of activity they carry out. Section III of the Prosecutor General's report takes into account the activities of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office for Criminal Court Supervision, Civil Court Supervision, Execution of Punishments and Other Forced Measures, International Legal Assistance and Cooperation. Section V of the Prosecutor General's report outlines the priorities in the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigative bodies. In the medium and long term, based on the current analyses and reports of partner institutions, the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria sets the following priorities in its work: respect for citizens' rights in the law enforcement process; defending the independence of the prosecution as part of the judiciary; validating the supervision of legality as an instrument for overcoming the legal means of important problems for society; effective management by increasing the competence of the administrative leaders; and they support prosecutors and investigators for the professional and temporary performance of their duties; strengthening the methodical role of the chief prosecutor; improving the quality and timing of the investigation; proactive approach of the prosecutor's office in countering and corruption in the high levels of power and organised crime; improving the interaction with the competent institutions as well as improving the international and inter-instant interaction with the purpose of securing and withdrawing the benefits gained from criminal activity. Both reports take into account the continuing tendency to engage the prosecution with issues beyond its competence on alerts of citizens and organisations. This factual situation further increases the workload of prosecutors due to the need to rule on them by decree or by resolution. The continued trend also indicates the failure of specific data in the alerts of the control authorities, which requires further commissioning or carrying out such checks by a prosecutor and also affects workload. In the subsequent discussion of the reports took part MPs Petar Slavov and Danail Kirilov They noted that the reports greatly facilitate the orientation in their content and allow for traceability in the necessary details of the activities of prosecutors and investigative bodies. Both reports have a balanced presentation of statistics and analytical parts, including proposals for legislative changes. The steps taken to overcome the different workload of prosecutors by applying internal organisational measures shall also be assessed as positive. However, their implementation allows only to a certain extent to limit the scale of the problem by overcoming it is within the jurisdiction of the Supreme Judicial Council to continue the initiatives for the timely announcement of competitions for the holding of incomplete state offices in the prosecution and for changes in the state of the individual prosecutors according to the volume of work in them. Following the debates held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 511 00-5, received on 27 May 2016 and the Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the investigating authorities in 2014, No 511 00-5, received on 27 May 2016 and the Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and the investigating authorities in 2015, No 630
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. This is the Commission's report. The decisions will be read before the vote. I'm opening the debate. Anyone? Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In all the reports that had to be voted on several times here, I abstained, including the Supreme Judicial Council, for the Supreme Court of Cassation, including the Supreme Administrative Court. I will keep what I have done in relation to the prosecution reports, because I am a Bulgarian MP and I have been elected by Bulgarian citizens. In Bulgaria, the attitude towards the justice system is extremely negative. Trust is lower than 10%. It moves between 6% and 8%. As an expressor of this trend and as a Member of the National Assembly, for which those Bulgarian citizens who so appreciate the work of the overall judiciary have voted, I have no right to support these reports. Perhaps much of these reports contain authentic and accurate information, including both prosecution reports. Against the background of all the scandals we've seen in recent years, against the background of what's happening with KTB, you remember the Bonebrod case and so on, I can't break my will and, by some illusory political need to support these reports. Therefore, as in previous reports, by expressing the will of my constituents, I will abstain from these two prosecution reports, and I will explain why I do not oppose. Because I take note of the fact that in these systems, a court, prosecution, there are also many honest people who cannot be held responsible for what this justice system has as an image.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u41	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Anyone want a line? Silence in the room. Next statement? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am not surprised at this indifference in plenary to the subjects concerning the judiciary. No wonder, because December I saw 204 votes voting for the status quo in the judiciary. However, certain circumstances need to be mentioned because, in my opinion, as my fellow Member also said, there is someone who can hear them from people, in view of the public's attitude towards our justice system. By the way, the rating of the constituent parts of the justice system is the same as the rating of the National Assembly, we do not realize these things. But let's... one thing at a time. First, the annual reports of the courts and the prosecution are examined. I don't know if this is an organizational problem, but let's not let anyone come in today to sit here, in the back, to hear what the MPs will say about the work of these institutions, this shows attitude if they are invited and have not come. [[Replys from MPs from GERB.]] I'm not going into lines with...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u43	I hope so, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u44	Now is the time to hear the opinions of the MPs, not when reading the report they have written. This is part of the landscape related to the support of the status quo in the judiciary. Last week there was an extremely ugly scandal at the Supreme Judicial Council. An extremely ugly scandal that showed the relationship within this body, the disregard even of human dignity between colleagues who work in a collegiate body. He didn't get much response, because that's the media environment. However, I would like to say and draw attention to those who, last year, in the amendment of the Constitution, submitted an explicit text to the Constitution that this Supreme Judicial Council will pass the term of office. See what a shame all this is? Even then it was clear that this body could not work as a team, that there were insurmountable contradictions that were the result of certain behind-the-scenes connections and agreements. This knot was to be cut by the National Assembly. [[Heckling]] Yeah, we kept the status quo. Now, as far as the DA's office is concerned. Dear colleagues, 800 prosecutors were working in the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office in 1989. There are 1,800 prosecutors working on it today. If you look at the statistics, you will see that the number of indictments imported by this institution is about the same. I'm asking: what... [[GERB lines.]] Look, the criterion for the work of this institution is the number of indictments tabled. That's the criterion! The rest is a waste of their work. So I ask: since we now have more than twice the number in the prosecution, why are the indictments the same and what does this institution do? But it's a matter of statistics. Otherwise, I would put the question here, and that is why I ask: why is there no representative of the prosecution to hear? I would like to ask a few specific questions about the prosecution's work. As we are looking at the reports for both 2014 and 2015 ▪ I will not ask why we are looking at both of them at once? That's another topic. It became publicly known in Bulgaria that the Prosecutor's Office was conducting an investigation against the Head of State, which is a direct violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, because according to the Constitutional text I should not confuse exactly the number concerning the regulation of the Head of State, it is explicitly stated that the Head of State cannot be formed and investigated in any form. I ask: on what basis was the prosecution conducting an investigation against the Head of State? There can be two answers. One answer should be that the prosecutor who started these actions does not know the Constitution, which is not excluded from it. The second answer, however, is very worrying to me. This means that there is an abuse by the prosecution of powers for political purposes. After some time, after this circumstance was made public, this investigation was suspended in haste and it was reported that the Attorney General had apologized to the President and he accepted his apologies. I don't care what they say. I want to know who has abused constitutional authority and has this prosecutor been held accountable? I want to tell you that the prosecutor who initiated this investigation subsequently received a promotion and is now in the Cassation Prosecutor's Office. Doesn't that mean that he was rewarded for his loyalty to the one who assigned this to him? This is an extremely important, scandalous case that has been suppressed because it is not spoken on it. Because if the prosecution allows itself to violate the absolute immunity of the Head of State... Ladies and gentlemen, you expect the law to apply equally to all citizens? This is ridiculous! Okay, a few other cases that concern colleagues from GERB and they are silent. On the day of reflection, senior prosecutors, together with today's ombudsman of the state, held a press conference, which was a serious violation of legislation and a severe political provocation. Mina, he's gone. That's what we swept under the rug. Will anyone take responsibility for these prosecutors who gave this press conference, didn't they run a political errand? Here we are going, by the way, to a very serious defect of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has been a loan since socialist time, that information in pre-trial proceedings can only be provided by the prosecution. What do you mean, the sides are equal? This enables the misuse of this power, honourable Members, which, by the way, is now being reproduced daily and we are all silent about this circumstance. But I turn around, my colleagues from the center, for the scandal of Kostinbrod: Why did you forget it? Shouldn't it be held accountable, including punishment, because there is abuse of power? Because in my opinion, the Kostinbrod affair had an impact on the election results at the time. And we're not telling you that. As we are talking about public statements from the prosecution, which are targeted and aimed at a certain effect for changing and creating certain public attitudes, I would like to ask: why have we forgotten CCB? Two years or how much legal proceedings are brought about the fact that Tsvetan Vassilev took advantage of or, in plain language, stole 205 million. BGN, which I'm sure you do. I have no idea. Yes, but we all know that there are 4 billion missing, honourable Members. For the rest of the damage that has been done, will an investigation be conducted? The colleagues of our parliamentary group wrote a kind letter to Mr. Prosecutor General to invite him, taking advantage of the new amendment to the Constitution, to come here, before the National Assembly, and to say what is going on with the CCB investigation. He told us the same day: "Watch your work! When you make a decision in the National Assembly, I will come. How do we make a decision, with 204 MPs voting for "Tsatsarov" in December? How do you do that? But let's put this aside. I'd like to draw your attention to another fragment of the KTB scandal. The collapse of this bank began with a public action by the Prosecutor's Office.. Was it July 14th, which date, when entered the offices of KTB, a public scandal was made and the withdrawals of the deposits of the depositors began. The bank was destroyed by an operation organised by the prosecutor's office, without having previously had any circumstances in the services. There were no operational cases for a reason and there was no data from the operational services to serve as a basis for the prosecution to take this action. And silence. Why, dear colleagues? Because today the Bulgarian state is governed in a kind of way we have a prime minister-procurator state. We see that Mr. Prime Minister is very fond of the Attorney General, and perhaps this is not a coincidence, since we know there is that reply of Kokinov: "You chose it." They have chosen themselves together and in a very specific way govern Bulgaria, only this is not useful for the Bulgarian society or the Bulgarian state. For this reason, I am not surprised that in this House there are no reactions to the prosecution's reports, no speeches, no positions for this because this status quo is terribly convenient for the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u45	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Daniel Kirilov. [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please! Mr. Atanasov, please be quiet in this Chamber, we have a speaker on the stand. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor in relation to the question raised about the presence of the heads of the supreme institutions and the prosecution. I would like to remind my fellow Members that these four reports for the third week are in our weekly programmes. In the previous weeks, especially in the first week, there were representatives from the Supreme Judicial Council as well as representatives of the Supreme Courts. Currently a meeting of the Supreme Judicial Council is under way and is chaired by the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation Mr. Lozan Panov. For this reason he did not come for the first report. For the second report you have witnessed that we invited the President of the Supreme Administrative Court Mr. Georgi Kolev. I suppose the Attorney General is also at the Supreme Judicial Council meeting at the moment, as far as we can't know and assume at what precise moment, which report we will examine and discuss. I take the responsibility here that this week I acknowledge that I have stopped calling constantly and continuously the heads of the institutions who report, simply because this has already turned out to be extremely inappropriate. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, here I will give an explanation, on the hint of the previous speaker, we specifically wanted and united all the reports and we looked at them at the same time and together with the first reading of the Law on the Judiciary as the meaning of this organisational decision was as follows. All institutions that report to the National Assembly under the Constitution and under legislation can do so at the same time on the basis of the perception of the Members of the National Assembly, we should continue with our first joint discussion, which is at the first reading of the Law on the Judiciary. As President of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I cannot reproach any of the three major meetings of the Commission, report in detail, answer all questions, and the debate took place, as we have presented to you the reports of the Commission meetings. I will not enter into political findings and interpretations, but I will say this. The purpose and meaning of these reports is to show the objective facts, the objective facts about the movement of cases, the trends in formation and redistribution, the problems in dynamics and in speed, and the timing of the cases, including, you see the problems with the judicial map. I am using the case, and I understand the position of my colleague Metodi Andreev, but here I would say that the approach should be counterproductive, not for us to develop scandals in the judiciary, but for us to concentrate on the facts and try to be as objective as possible and with these facts to build and support trust in justice and the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Mr. Atanasov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kirilov, according to art. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria - Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary governance. The higher authority of government in this country is the National Assembly, regardless of what rating it has at this time and what support from society, it is the higher authority of government. When it comes to your work in the higher authority of the government, not to appear at this meeting, that is disrespect. I don't care what meeting we had today. We read in the media what meetings they hold and what they say to them. Today it took place because the last day could not take place? Well, that is the agenda of the National Assembly, you will follow it and when your work is being considered, you will come to hear what the MPs will say about your work, who, as my colleague Metodi Andreev says, have been sent here by the people to ask the questions of this institution. Otherwise, I'm sorry, but I don't want to think you're Daniel Matrosov. With the institution gone, you're going out here to give answers on your part. By the way, I use the line to say an extremely large defect in the legislation, which requires, however, a very serious political will to change, so that work in pre-trial proceedings can be streamlined, Mr. Stoilov. With this PPC, when the figure of the monitoring prosecutor is introduced in pre-trial proceedings and the principle of competition is eliminated, this has given extremely severe reflections of the process at all. Today, the prosecutor decides in pre-trial proceedings which evidence will gather and what not, he doesn't care about the defense's opinion and goes to the trial phase. That's why the cases have been dragged into the trial phase for years, because in pre-trial proceedings prosecutors are arbitrary. Sorry, I'll tell you today, [[the President signals that time has run out]] That in the Criminal Procedure Code since 1974 this principle of racing was better developed, I am uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u49	Your time is up, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u51	Just to let you know that the time for both the doppelganger and the group is up, if you want an extension, would you like an extension? You don't want to.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u52	Reply time is out of group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u53	For the second line, Mr. Stoilov. Please extend the time proportionately.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u54	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to use the line I've made, and I'm not going to take advantage of the right to a personal explanation. The questions you asked Mr. Atanasov have reason. Perhaps it is paradoxical that the whole parliament should be considered that the rule of law in Bulgaria a few decades ago was at a much higher level than it is at the moment, even though we were not in the rule of law then, and now it is written that Bulgaria is a democratic and a rule of law state. The smiles from the hall are unnecessary, this finding made a representative from the right, I'm just narrowing it down further for your information. Mr. Kirilov made more organizational and procedural statement and that is why in this direction is my line. I appreciate his efforts and what happened in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I note that, regardless of the commitments of individual leaders within the judiciary, there is still a representative of the Supreme Judicial Council, and this is no excuse when questions are raised in respect of any of the reports, and the representing one, I think that he could take competent treatment, especially of the activities of the prosecution and the investigating authorities, and I also call on these reports, if they are not purely formal, if the Parliament perceives them in this way, he discourages himself, discourages the text of the Constitution. As much as maneuvers to be made to reform the judiciary only on a constitutional level, we see that these changes have not led to anything significant in the past years. I will not go into assessments here of the activities of the individual institutions and the various problems of pre-trial proceedings. They deserve attention, but right now the Law on the Judiciary is also on the agenda, then perhaps again the Code of Criminal Procedure, so that some of the issues raised can find their specific answers. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What I am finishing with is that there is no reason for the Supreme Judicial Council not to have a dialogue with the MPs here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u55	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Is there anyone who wants a third line? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I apologize to you. I take the floor for the doppelganger. Indeed, my colleague Yanaki Stoilov correctly characterized my speech, it was entirely procedurally-organized. Thanks for the lines. I just want to say this on this procedural line. On yesterday was the fourth consecutive session under the Judicial Law and it was another eight-hour session. We also have a previous fifth, which was last Tuesday, under the Judicial Law. I would again point out that these meetings were attended by the Presidents of the Supreme Courts, both Deputy Prosecutors until last night 10.30. The Supreme Judicial Council will explain this: the first week he came, was here and sat for over an hour and a half, waiting for the time to come for the report. That time didn't come the first week. The second week, last week, when very quickly in the course of the meeting led to the point for the report on the Supreme Judicial Council, immediately a representative of the Supreme Judicial Council took off, Mrs. Koleva, as the meeting started here. Alas and unfortunately, it arrived as soon as the report was already voted on. This is what I meant by the organizational difficulties of matching time. I can say that none of the rapporteurs have refused to cooperate with regard to reporting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u57	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, it is good that there is debate on these reports. Every debate is useful. However, something else is wrong that, in fact, people who have a longer-term experience as MPs should be impressed that not only the prosecution's report but all reports have a statistical form which is basically a huge regret, it is my personal opinion, a type of newspaper form of information. That's bad. Too bad, why? I've said it not once or twice for other reports. These reports are useful when they are extracted and shown, first of all, positive and negative trends. If most colleagues have bothered to read the two main reports, they should be impressed by the first trend. The first trend, honourable Members, is the huge number of prosecution's refusals from pre-trial cases. Here is also the main problem that the Bulgarian society is suffering: does the prosecution as a first step give the Bulgarian citizen the opportunity for a quick and fair trial? In this form, the "cost" element is literally obliterated. The prosecution's refusal to initiate pre-trial proceedings and to direct the citizen to a form of settlement of the civil-law dispute follows another unpleasant trend. Here we are already entering into the big, real question.. a new refusal of justice for various reasons, high fees in certain forms of cases, high requirements of lawyers in terms of fees and due to the complexity of various cases, especially criminal cases related to serious crimes, and that is exactly what society wants. Moreover, I expected in the reports to see interesting information, which is already the information of high public interest. I'd like to ask you, fellow Members, if you could point out to me in the report, for example, where is it written down? I do not want the prosecution to give me the information from the investigation, because I know that it has no right, but the prosecution could say, for example, that in the case of CCB, a hundred, two hundred, three hundred pre-trial proceedings, of which sixty are, for example, already with an indictment filed. Such information is missing! That is, one case, one huge crime which cost the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian people over 3 billion. BGN, for him there is not one letter written in these reports. The big question is: why not? And when respectable lawyers stand up here, I expected them to focus their attention precisely in this direction on the work of the prosecutor's office on cases of high public interest and cases of which the public expects real action, real convicted persons, a return of money. It's okay! So from now on, we need to lay down perhaps the purely legislative criteria for preparing these reports, and not only to the prosecution, I say. I say: every year here purely procedurally, postfactum we vote and accept reports that are correctly reflected as statistics, but the real information, the trends in them are missing. There are no analyses that need to be done, which must be presented in the highest form of government, in order for everything to be done and have a positive effect. To this day, the question remains, for example, why in Bulgaria was one of the main motives, do you see the high workload? Well, if you want to shut down the prosecution and the courts, there won't be any burden. However, this is clear to you that it will not solve the problems. But it is not a motive that due to high workload we should not seek the forms of justice and the possibility of achieving a fair trial which is subject to an extremely well-motivated and objectified indictment. The other trend, which is not written about anywhere, how many of the indictments have been rejected and, in other words, there has not been a fair trial for this very reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u59	It says so. How could it not be written?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u60	Don't say that and don't call, please! You're a polite man, you can...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u61	Mr. Bayraktarov, don't take my functions, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u62	You guys get to work!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u63	You're very fast, I can't react. Continue, please! [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u64	That's too bad. [[Laughter]] We think quickly and analytically.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u65	Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u66	These are the main points which, unfortunately, have never been put to discussion, and even more are missing in the reports themselves. Thank you for your attention. Now colleague Lazarov can stand up and replicate if he wants to.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u67	Thanks for the tip, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov. [[Noise and lines.]] We extended it, yes, to all groups proportionately.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Bajraktarov, I am taking a line because you have asked a very clear question and I regret that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u69	Mr. Bayraktarov, listen please! There's a line for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u70	You have raised a very clear question about which acts of the prosecution, in fact the only acts which are not subject to judicial review, is the refusal to prosecute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u71	Well, how could they not be?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u72	I regret that you were not on the Legal Committee yesterday, where I made a similar proposal under the Law on the Judiciary and which, unfortunately, has been left without support from your fellow Members of the Legal Commission. So I am using this case to pay attention to you talking to them and explaining to them the importance of the problem and how important it is to have judicial control over these acts, because as you have addressed it, it is quite possible that it is purely subjective in the subjective judgment of a prosecutor in a given situation to accept that there is no criminal offence and not to initiate criminal proceedings. To understand how serious the issue is, I will give you a very painful example from the last days. This is the example of this child, which, as you've all seen in the media, according to the official documents, has crashed, you know, into a jeep that was injured and so on. This ridiculous situation doesn't seem to have gone by without a prosecutor's inspection. I am very afraid that if there is an inspection there, by the way, here I call representatives of the prosecution, if there is, to carry it out. If not, if they're listening to us, let them see if it turns out that there's actually no record of a crime and refuses to commit a criminal offence against the culprit driver of the vehicle. I am convinced that if you could appeal to a court of law by the mother of the injured child, this thing would never have happened the way the media is now carrying it around. The situation is extremely embarrassing and people say again: "There is no country!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Anyone want a second line? No. Mr. Bajraktarov, come in for your coat. [[Replications between MPs Petar Slavov and Dimitar Lazarov.]] Please, the informal verbal debate on the sidelines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues Slavov, I do not fully share your line. I say I don't share it entirely because it's technically subject to control...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u75	Courthouse, courthouse, courthouse, courthouse,
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u76	...so-called findings from pre-trial proceedings. But it's a different problem. You touched him, but you didn't set the exact example. I will give you other precise examples to make it clear to you and your colleagues. I'm giving you an example from my own practice. I refer to the Burgas District Prosecutor's Office for committed official crimes attached with videos and facts. The prosecutor's office issued a motion to refuse pre-trial proceedings, then three days later, a capital site came up with an outrageous article by a fellow journalist who witnessed it. A Sofia prosecutor, you see him, I say, set up pre-trial proceedings here in Sofia to clear the crime that affected the lives and health of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. There, that's the big problem. One untruthfully and untruely says there is no crime, I refuse you, mind your own business. What's really exciting here is that, by some chance, there's a conscientious state's attorney who can solve the case. Thanks to him today, there are no dangerous high-voltage cables in the Sea Garden to kill a child. Here, thanks to this. I can tell you hundreds of these examples. When we talk about these things, I affect them for a reason, because one thing is what the Penal Code and the PPC say, and another is what the relevant prosecutor decides as a physical unit. And that trend is gone. Here, when we talk about imaginary attestations, we need to look at things purely practically and pragmatically, because people care about it. Because when they kill his baby, God forbid it ever happens to anyone, only this man knows what he's going through after when he's facing this whole wall and dragging his affairs out for years. That's what I'm talking about. And in a pre-trial phase, I speak where the sole master is the prosecutor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Mrs. Alexandrova, you're welcome to present us with the decisions we need to vote on. First is the 2014 Decision Project.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u78	Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the prosecution and investigating bodies in 2014. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the prosecution and investigating bodies in 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u79	Thank you. Honourable Members, please vote on the proposed draft decision. Vote 110 MPs: 90 against 8, abstention 12. The decision's been made. Mrs. Alexandrova, the second draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u80	Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the prosecution and investigating bodies in 2015. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the Prosecutor's Office and the investigating bodies in 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u81	Thank you. Honourable Members, voting regime. Vote 110 MPs: 95 against 5, abstention 10. The decision's been made. Before I announce my break, Mr. Belemezov would like to announce information about the stenogram.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Due to the error of my vote on the first draft decision, I am informing the stenogram that I am voting for............................................................................... Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u83	Thank you. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. At 12:00 we continue with the next item on the agenda. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u84	Dear colleagues, today's sitting is continuing. The next item on the agenda is: LAW FOR THE RATE OF THE MEMORANDUM FOR THE RESTRUCTURING BETWEEN THE MINISTERY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE MINISTERY OF THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE REPUBLIC OF EUS, THE MINISTERY OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF Latvian, THE MINISTERY OF THE NATIONAL DESTRUCTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE MINISTER OF THE NATIONAL DESTRUCTURING OF THE REPUBLIC OF POLAND, THE MINISTERY OF THE NATIONAL DESTRUCTION OF RUMANS AND THE OBSERVATION OF THE UNION CALS IN EVOA (SHAPE) ON THE STATE ELEMENTS OF THE INTERGREATION OF THE POWERS OF NATO (NFIU), REFERRED TO 30 MARCH 2016 IN MONS, THE KINGDOM OF BELEGIA. Reports from three committees are coming up. The main report is from the Defence Committee. To prepare the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy. General Mihov, please submit the report to the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe on a draft law on ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the High Staff of the Allied Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on NATO Force Integration (NFIU), signed on 30 March 2016 in Mons, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 602-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016. At a meeting of the Defence Committee, held on 23 June 2016, a Draft for the ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Supreme Headquarters of the Allied Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on NATO Force Integration (NFIU), signed on 30 March 2016 in Mons, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 602-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016. The meeting was attended by 12 MPs. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev presented the reasons of the bill. The Memorandum between the six Host States of the NATO Force Integration Headquarters (NFIU) and the High Headquarters of the Allied Forces in Europe (SHAPE) was signed by us on 30 March 2016 in Mons, on the basis of Decision of the Council of Ministers on 2 March 2016 and is the result of a decision of the North Atlantic Council to build NATO Headquarters elements for the integration of NATO forces into the territories of Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Romania. The purpose of this Memorandum is to define the specific conditions and arrangements on which the headquarters elements for the integration of NATO forces will be established, operated and maintained in peace time, crisis, conflict and war. The Memorandum and subsequent documents are intended to serve as a framework allowing the establishment, operation and maintenance of staff elements. It lays down the legal, financial and other aspects of the establishment of staff elements in the host countries. In general, the Memorandum defines the guiding principles, the main positions and the responsibilities of the parties, reflecting the minimum requirements for maintenance by the host country. It states that the elements will be structured with a general and broad functionality that exceeds the regional requirements or specific features of the host country. They will ensure routine integration of the Alliance's capabilities. It is recorded that the host country provides the infrastructure, maintenance and protection of staff of the staff elements. The overall coordination and maintenance of uniform standards in the headquarters elements will be exercised by NATO operational command. Responsibility for the establishment, maintenance and operation of staff elements shall be provided financially by the host country and by NATO's general financing by decision of the North Atlantic Council. At the vote held, the Defence Committee unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Supreme Staff of the Allied Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on the headquarters elements for the integration of NATO forces (NFIU), signed on 30 March 2016 in Mons, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 602-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. The report from the Committee on Budget and Finance follows. You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Supreme Staff of the Allied Forces in Europe (SHAPE) concerning NATO Force Integration Elements (NFIU), signed on 30 March 2016 in Mons, Kingdom of Belgium, No 602-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016. At a regular meeting held on 13 July 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Bill. The document with the importer Council of Ministers was presented by Mrs. Desislava Yosifova Deputy Minister of Defence. The Memorandum sets out the need to create NATO (NFIU), the guiding principles, the main positions and responsibilities of the Parties and reflects the minimum requirements for support from NFIU host countries. It establishes a special support regime by the host country of NFIU and all activities related to the implementation of the tasks of NATO Force Integration Headquarters. The Republic of Bulgaria is envisaged to be a host country with regard to the overall provision of NFIU for the time of its deployment in the country, which is essentially taking on a lasting financial commitment by the Bulgarian country. It is therefore necessary to ratify the Memorandum on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 18 votes for the resolution of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Supreme Staff of the Allied Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on the headquarters elements for the integration of NATO forces (NFIU), signed on 30 March 2016 in Mons, the Kingdom of Belgium, No 602-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Following is a report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Mrs. Grozdanova will introduce him to us. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u89	Mr. Chairman, before presenting the report, I ask for a procedure for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov on this point and on the next item 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u90	Which is a technical agreement between the Minister of Defence and a certain number of countries. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Please vote. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please provide access to the hall. Go on, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u91	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the High Staff of the Allied Forces in Europe (SHAPE) concerning NATO Force Integration (NFIU), No 602-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016. At a regular meeting held on 29 June 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by Nikolay Nenchev "Deputy Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria." I will not repeat the text of the report which was read by the committee responsible. I'll put it in a summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u92	It's your right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u93	The security elements for the integration of NATO forces will be structured to enable routine integration of the Alliance's capabilities related to NATO military activities, including measures to ensure the security of allies. The headquarters elements for the integration of NATO forces will facilitate coordination of planning and providing an expert council, as well as providing detailed support in order to carry out the activities of the Action Plan. Staff will vary between the individual Headquarters elements for the integration of NATO forces and will be consistent to meet the specific requirements of each host country. The staffing of the permanent structure of each NATO Force Integration Headquarters will reflect the shared task with about 50 per cent ratio between the host country concerned and other contributing countries, such as a combined structure guaranteeing the principles of a fully integrated, consistent and connected entity. The Memorandum envisions obligations for the Republic of Bulgaria as a host country regarding the overall provision of the Command Element for the integration of NATO forces for the time of its deployment in the country, which is essentially taking on a lasting financial commitment by the Bulgarian country. It is therefore necessary to ratify the memorandum on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, with 11 votes for the National Assembly, without the opposition and 2 votes for the Foreign Policy Committee, proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Supreme Headquarters of the Allied Forces in Europe on the Headquarters elements for the integration of NATO forces.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u94	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. My fellow Members, I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate on the proposed bill. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting at first reading of the Draft Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the High Staff of the Allied Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on the headquarters elements for the integration of NATO forces, No 602-02-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016. Please vote. Vote 104 MPs: 97 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure, General Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, the Defence Committee, as the lead, proposes to be adopted by the second vote on the draft voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u96	Thank you for your offer. A reverse opinion? I won't. My fellow Members, I am voting on the procedural proposal made to examine the bill and at second reading. Please vote. Voted 103 MPs: 97 against 5, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Mihov, please report the Second Reading Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u97	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the High Staff of the Allied Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on NATO Force Integration (NFIU), signed on 30 March 2016 in Mons, the Kingdom of Belgium A single member. He established a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the High Staff of the Allied Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on NATO Force Integration (NFIU), signed on 30 March 2016 in Mons, the Kingdom of Belgium. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u98	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members, on the title, article only and Final provision with paragraph alone? There aren't any. Honourable Members, I shall put to the vote the name of the Law, article one and the Final provision, together with paragraph one. Vote 105 MPs: 98 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR THE RATE OF THE TECHNICAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE MINISTER OF THE DEFENCE OF THE KINGDOM OF BULGARIA, THE MINISTER OF THE REST OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE MINISTER OF THE REST OF THE REPUBLIC OF CZECH REPUBLIC, THE MINISTER OF THE REST OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC, THE FEDERAL MINISTERY OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY, THE MINISTERY OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC, THE MINISTER OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE GRAND-CHERCEMBURGE, THE MINISTER OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE KINGDOM OF THE KINGDOM, THE MINISTER OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE KINGDOM OF NOREVA, THE MINISTER OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE KINGDOM OF NORVACIA, THE MINISTER OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC AND THE MISSION OF THE KINGDOM OF THE KINGDOM OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE'S OF THE'S. The draft is allocated to the Defence Committee as the lead, to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the Foreign Policy Committee. You are welcome to present to us the main report of the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u99	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of the Portuguese Republic and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain on the European Tactical Air Transport Programme and the establishment in Spain of the European Centre for Tactical Air Transport (EPTVT and EVTTTS), No 602-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2016. At a regular meeting held on 7 July 2016, the Defence Committee discussed the Draft for the ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of the Portuguese Republic and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain on the European Tactical Air Transport Programme and the establishment in Spain of the European Centre for Tactical Air Transport (EPTV and ETVTTC), No 602-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2016. The meeting was attended by 15 MPs. The meeting was attended by Deputy Defence Minister Atanas Zapreyanov and Parliamentary Secretary Laura Kendova. The Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zaprianov briefed the MPs with the Bill and the reasons for it. The Council of Ministers proposes to the National Assembly to ratify the Technical Agreement between 11 countries on the European Tactical Air Transport Programme and the establishment in Zaragoza, Spain, of the European Centre for Tactical Air Transport. The draft Technical Agreement was signed by the Bulgarian side on 22 February 2016 by the Minister of Defence. The subject of the document is the regulation of the future organisation, financing and conducting of tactical trainings, courses and symposiums in the direction of operations and preparation of the European fleet programme for air transport. Its implementation is foreseen between 2016 and 2025. The Technical Agreement states that the same shall enter into force for the Bulgarian country from the date of finalization of the necessary internal legal procedures, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria will notify in writing the Kingdom of Spain. Due to the fact that Bulgaria is undertaking a financial obligation for the long term, the National Assembly is required on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to ratify by law the Technical Agreement. A statement on the bill was made by the People's Representative Miho Mihov. He stressed that the Agreement is in line with the European Air Transport Fleet Programme initiated by the European Defence Agency, in accordance with the European Union initiative on unification and sharing and the Smart Defence Initiative. The objectives and scope of the Agreement, the rules for participation and withdrawal from it, the financial provisions, cooperation with third parties, claims and responsibilities, resolution of disputes and termination of its action are described. The agreement is for the long term... the financial obligations for the country by year cannot be calculated in advance and fixed as an assumed amount, but is beneficial for the development of our military transport aviation. Following the debates on the bill, a vote was held. The Defence Committee unanimously adopted the following decision by 15 votes: Asks the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt, at first vote, a Draft for the ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of the Portuguese Republic and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain on the European Tactical Air Transport Programme and the establishment in Spain of the European Centre for Tactical Air Transport (EVT and ETVTTC), No 602-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u100	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. We will now hear the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u101	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of the Portuguese Republic and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain on the European Tactical Air Transport Programme and the establishment in Spain of the European Centre for Tactical Air Transport (EPTVT and EVTTTS), No 602-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2016. At its regular meeting held on 13 July 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Parties listed above. The document, with the importer of the Council of Ministers, was presented by Mrs. Desislava Yosifova, Deputy Minister of Defence. The subject of the signed Technical Agreement is the regulation of the future organisation, financing and conducting of tactical trainings, courses and symposiums under the heading "Operations and preparation" of the European Air Transport Fleet Programme. The technical agreement shall specify the general procedures and measures necessary for the effective implementation of the events, the responsibilities of the participants in them, including the procedures for reimbursement of the costs of providing support by the Host Party. Its implementation is foreseen between 2016 and 2025. It shall enter into force for the Bulgarian country from the date of finalization of the necessary internal legal procedures, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria will notify in writing the Kingdom of Spain. The reasons for the ratification of the agreement by the National Assembly are those that the Republic of Bulgaria assumes a financial obligation for a long period, the value of which by years cannot be calculated in advance and fixed as an assumed amount. This requires ratification of the agreement on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 18 votes for the resolution, without the defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of the Portuguese Republic and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain on the European Tactical Air Transport Programme and the establishment in Spain of the European Centre for Tactical Air Transport, No 602
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u102	Thank you. There is another report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u103	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of the Portuguese Republic and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain on the European Tactical Air Transport Programme and the establishment in Spain of the European Centre for Tactical Transport, No 602-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2016. At a regular meeting held on 20 July 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by Desislava Yosifova "Deputy Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria as follows: The technical agreement was signed by the Bulgarian side on 22 February 2016. The subject of the signed Technical Agreement is the regulation of the future organization, financing and conducting of tactical trainings, courses and symposiums in the field of operations and preparation of the European Air Transport Fleet Programme. The technical agreement shall specify the general procedures and measures necessary for the effective implementation of the events, the responsibilities of the participants in them, including the procedures for reimbursement of the costs of providing support by the Host Party. Its implementation is envisaged in the period 2016-2025. The Technical Agreement states that the same shall enter into force for the Bulgarian country from the date of finalization of the necessary internal legal procedures, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria will notify in writing the Kingdom of Spain. The reasons for the ratification of the Technical Agreement by the National Assembly are the following: under the Agreement, the Republic of Bulgaria undertakes a financial obligation for a long period, the value of which by years cannot be calculated in advance and fixed as an assumed amount. This circumstance requires ratification of the Technical Agreement on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, with 14 votes for the draft, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly, on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the draft Law on ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of the Portuguese Republic and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain on the European Tactical Air Transport Programme and the establishment in Spain of the European Centre for Tactical Air Transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u104	Thank you. The debate is open. Are there any MPs who wish to express their opinion, position? I can't see. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote a bill ratifying the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of the Portuguese Republic and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain on the European Tactical Air Transport Programme and the establishment in Spain of the European Centre for Tactical Air Transport, No 602-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 92 against 2, abstention 1. At the first vote, the Law of ratification was adopted. Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Minister of Defence! In view of the fact that no intentions for amendments and amendments to the Bill have been stated during the discussions, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to be adopted in the framework of this meeting of the second vote, the draft adopted at first vote, No 602-02-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u106	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 97 MPs: 94 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u107	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of the Portuguese Republic and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain on the European Tactical Air Transport Programme and the establishment in Spain of the European Centre for Tactical Transport (EVTTTC) A single member. Ratifying the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of National Defence of the Portuguese Republic and the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain on the European Tactical Air Transport Programme and the establishment in Spain of the European Centre for Tactical Air Transport (EPTVT and ECTVTTS), signed by the Bulgarian side on 22 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u108	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Colleagues, speeches for a second vote? I won't. I am putting to the second vote a bill of ratification to be discussed. Vote 96 MPs: 94, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Next item: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE COMPANY BETWEEN BULGARIA AND A BLACK PROGRAM FOR SOCIAL SECURITY. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016 Reports have been submitted to the committees on which it is assigned, and they are not few. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov, in summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u109	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro on Social Security, No 602-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 29 June 2016 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro on Social Security. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Petya Malakova, Head of Department at the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Conditions of Work. The Agreement provides for mutual respect for periods of insurance completed in accordance with the laws of the two countries and, where necessary, for the assessment of the right and the determination of the duration of benefits covered by the material scope of the Agreement. It is explicitly stated that in the relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro, the Convention on Social Security between the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia, concluded on 18 December 1957 in Belgrade, ceases to be valid from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results of 13 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro on Social Security, No 602-02-23, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u110	And thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u111	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I request a procedure for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u112	Colleagues, we are voting on this proposal. To prepare a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Vote 74 MPs: 71 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u113	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro on Social Security, No 602-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016. At a regular meeting held on 13 July 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro on Social Security, No 602-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016. The document with importer The Council of Ministers was presented by Ms Denitsa Sacheva Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The Agreement was developed by both parties in preliminary consultations on the basis of the generally accepted principles and norms of international law in the field of social security, as well as of European Union law in this field, and was signed in Sofia on 1 February 2016. With regard to the Republic of Bulgaria, the Agreement concerns legislation on medical services outside the scope of compulsory health insurance, medical care in the scope of compulsory health insurance, state social security for temporary incapacity, maternity, disability, disability and death, occupational accident and occupational sickness, unemployment and monthly family benefits for children. With regard to Montenegro, the Agreement covers legislation on health insurance, health and maternity, pensions and disability insurance, accidents at work and occupational diseases, unemployment benefits as well as child support. It provides for mutual respect for periods of insurance completed under the laws of the two countries and, where necessary, for the assessment of the right and the determination of the duration of benefits covered by the material scope of the Agreement. In respect of the determination of pension entitlements to the Agreement, it is possible for the competent institution to sum up periods of insurance completed under the legislation of a third country with which that Contracting State has concluded a Social Security Agreement providing for the aggregation of periods of insurance. The agreement contains financial commitments for the State and therefore on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is subject to ratification in the National Assembly by law. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 18 votes for the resolution of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro, No 602-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u115	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro on Social Security, No 602-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016. At a meeting held on 29 June 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro on Social Security, signed in Sofia on 1 February 2016. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Ivanov. The Agreement was developed by both Parties in preliminary consultations on the basis of generally accepted principles and standards of international social security law. The Agreement shall be based on the principles of equal treatment of persons, the export of benefits, the applicability of only one legislation as regards the obligation to ensure and sum up the periods of insurance. With regard to the Republic of Bulgaria, the Agreement concerns legislation on medical services outside the scope of compulsory health insurance, medical care in the scope of compulsory health insurance, state social security for temporary incapacity, maternity, disability, disability and death, occupational accident and occupational sickness, unemployment and monthly family benefits for children. With regard to Montenegro, the Agreement covers legislation on health insurance, health and maternity, pensions and disability insurance, accidents at work and occupational diseases, unemployment benefits as well as child support. The members of diplomatic missions and consulates, members of their families, and persons employed as personnel in the private homes of the members of those representations and consulates which are dispatched to the territory of the other Contracting State shall remain subject to the legislation of the Contracting State which sends them. It provides for mutual respect for periods of insurance completed under the laws of the two countries and, where necessary, for the assessment of the right and the determination of the duration of benefits covered by the material scope of the Agreement. The Agreement contains standard provisions on the conclusion of an administrative agreement, procedural rules for the submission of requests, designation and payment of benefits, entry into force and effect, etc. The Agreement shall enter into force on the first day following the end of the month in which the Parties notify each other in writing by diplomatic means that all internal procedures necessary for its entry into force have been completed. In relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro, the Convention on Social Security between the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia, concluded on 18 December 1957 in Belgrade, shall cease to be valid from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers, no objection, no abstention and no abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro on Social Security, No 602-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u116	We also need to hear the report from the Health Committee. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest to your attention: "COMMODITY" on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro on Social Security, No 602-02-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 June 2016. At its extraordinary meeting on 21 July 2016, the Health Commission examined and discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Conditions of Labour at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, representatives of non-governmental organizations, of the word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The bill and its motives were presented by Mrs. Kalina Petkova. It shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that the Agreement is subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria because it contains financial obligations for our country. The Agreement was developed by both parties in preliminary consultations on the basis of the generally accepted principles and norms of international law in the field of social security, as well as European Union law in the field of social security, and was signed in Sofia on 1 February 2016. The document is based on the principles of equal treatment of persons, the export of benefits, the applicability of only one legislation in respect of the obligation to ensure and sum up the periods of insurance. With regard to the Republic of Bulgaria, the Agreement concerns legislation on medical services outside the scope of compulsory health insurance, medical care in the scope of compulsory health insurance, state social security for temporary incapacity, maternity, disability, disability and death, occupational accident and occupational sickness, unemployment and monthly family benefits for children. With regard to Montenegro, the Agreement covers legislation on health insurance, health and maternity, pensions and disability insurance, accidents at work and occupational diseases, unemployment benefits as well as child support. As a general rule, the Agreement provides that persons engaged in employment as employed or self-employed persons in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties, even where the residence of those persons or the place of employment is situated in the territory of the other Contracting Party, are subject to social security legislation of the State in which they work. It provides for mutual respect for periods of insurance completed under the laws of the two countries and, where necessary, for the assessment of the right and the determination of the duration of benefits covered by the material scope of the Agreement. Standard provisions on the conclusion of an administrative agreement, procedural rules for the submission of requests, designation and payment of benefits, etc. are also proposed. The Agreement shall enter into force on the first day following the end of the month in which the Parties notify each other in writing by diplomatic means that all internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of this Agreement are fulfilled. The Convention on Social Security between the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative People's Republic of Yugoslavia, concluded on 18 December 1957 in Belgrade, shall cease to be valid from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u118	The debate is open. Are there any willing MPs who wish to share thoughts on this ratification? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro on Social Security. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Ms. Gemma Grozdanova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u119	Madam President, I ask that the adopted ratification law be reviewed in a second vote in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u120	A reverse opinion? I won't. Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please provide the report for second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u121	THE LAW OF THE ratifying the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro on Social Security A single member. Ratifying the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro on Social Security, signed in Sofia on 1 February 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u122	We vote. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The Law on ratification is also unanimously supported by a second vote. Next item: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE TURISM LAW. Report of the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u123	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 602-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2016. At its regular meeting on 29 June 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. The meeting was attended by the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova, representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Bulgarian Hotel and Restaurant Association, the Bulgarian Association of Tourism Agencies, the Association of Bulgarian Tour Operators and Tourist Agencies and the Bulgarian Industrial Association. The Law provides for amendments to the existing arrangements of the Single Tourism Information System (ESTI) as all persons engaged in hotels, including those who have started categorisation proceedings, must keep a register of accommodated tourists with data composition established by the Minister of Tourism and published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism. This obligation binds the persons holding hotels in accommodations belonging both to the class "A" and to the class "B" and to family hotels, hostels, boarding stations, holiday stations, guest houses, guest rooms, guest suites, bungalows and campsites, including in tourist huts, tourist information centers, tourist bedrooms, Rotels, botelli and fleets. A new requirement is introduced for persons conducting hotel services in accommodation accommodations of class "A" class, to keep a register through a centralised information system maintained by the Minister of Tourism, accessible via a public web-based or other online access application or through a person selected by the person performing hospitality, an information system meeting the requirements of the Law on Electronic Governance. In view of the greater financial burden for hoteliers active in the "B" class premises, it is envisaged that they can keep the register in paper form on a template established by the Minister of Tourism. An easier procedure is envisaged for the exchange and processing of the data from the registers of the accommodated persons. A direct link channel is created between hoteliers and ESTI, without the need to transmit this information first to the municipality and then re-enter the ESTI, which makes the procedure for providing it significantly faster and reduces the risk of errors. For class B accommodations that do not keep a register in electronic form, the data exchange shall be made through their daily entry into the Single Tourist Information System via a publicly accessible web or other interface. To this end, individuals will use a publicly accessible interface of the centralised ESTI system for direct entry into it. An exception shall be provided for sites located in areas for which there is no communication connectivity and for them the entry may be made once a week. These areas are defined by the Minister of Tourism and published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism based on data from the Communications Regulation Commission. The information in the registers for accommodated tourists entering the ECTI is divided into two groups. The first group includes data on tourists from the Republic of Bulgaria and other Member States of the European Union, countries countries of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, as well as the Swiss Confederation. The second group includes data on tourists.. third-country nationals. As regards the first group of tourists, hoteliers are required to exchange information only on their number, date of registration and date of departure. The second group provides for the provision and retention of data, including both their number and identifying data in volume according to art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria - name, date of birth, nationality, number and series of the identity document. The data on tourists accommodated in the EUTS single register are not public. The access of the municipalities, the NRA and the Minister of Interior is remote and the scope of the data is limited according to the law on the relevant category of persons. Upon technological readiness and interoperability conditions, automated access may be provided as an internal electronic administrative service or through direct connectivity under the Law on Electronic Governance. Access to the system and the President of the National Statistical Institute is envisaged. The National Tourist Register will be developed, constructed and maintained by the Minister of Tourism and the Single Tourism Information System is part of the National Tourist Register. Changes are provided for in the order of keeping the registers of tourist sites classified within the territory of the municipality concerned and the registers become an integral part of the electronic National Tourist Register. The regime of conduct is also changing. It is also possible to pay the fee for changing entered circumstances in the National Tourist Register by electronic means. In the event of non-compliance with obligations relating to registers for accommodated tourists, administrative penalties are provided for. The amount of sanctions aims to have a preventive and deterrent effect on debtors, with the aim of protecting public interest, strengthening security measures and supporting the fight against terrorism. During the discussion the Vice-President of the Commission Dimitar Bajraktarov asked what are the expectations of the introduction of the Single Tourism Information System. In response, Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova voiced confidence for growth of at least 20 percent of the proceeds reported so far. The President of the Bulgarian Hotel and Restaurant Association Blagoy Ragin expressed his support for the bill, stressing that its adoption will lead to a decrease in the grey tourism sector. He expressed his belief that the state should increase the share of our country's advertising funds abroad by at least 1 percent of the revenues reported in the ESTI. Daniela Stoeva Member of the Management Board of the Association of Bulgarian Tour Operators and Tourist Agencies expressed the opinion that the tourists should not be divided into two groups and the information submitted to the EUTS should be the same for all. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 602-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2016. [[Applause from GERB. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u124	I'm waiting for the applause to subside. Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. Following is a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Zelenogorski, we'll see if you can gather a round of applause. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u125	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! At its regular meeting held on 7 July 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2016. The Commission meeting was attended by Mrs. Irena Georgieva, Deputy Minister of Tourism, and Mrs. Albena Mihailova, Secretary General of the Ministry of Tourism. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Irena Georgieva. The proposed Draft introduces substantial changes to the existing framework of the Single Tourism Information System (ESTI). The bill provides that all persons engaged in hotels, including those who have initiated categorisation proceedings, must keep a register of tourists accommodated with data composition established by the Minister of Tourism and published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism. A new requirement is introduced for persons conducting hotel services in accommodation accommodations of class "A" class, namely to keep a register through a centralised information system maintained by the Minister of Tourism, accessible via a public web-based or other online access application or by a person selected by the person conducting hotel services, an information system complying with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Governance. In view of the greater financial burden for hoteliers operating in the "B" class premises, namely (in tourist huts, tourist information centres, tourist bedrooms, rottels, bottels and flots), it is intended to enable them to keep the register in paper form established by the Minister of Tourism. For class B accommodation (touristic huts, tourist information centres, tourist bedrooms that do not keep a register in electronic form, the data exchange shall be made through their daily entry into the Single Tourist Information System via a publicly accessible web or other interface, through a secure communication communication session for connectivity. To this end, individuals are relieved not to introduce their own information systems, but will use a publicly accessible interface of the centralised ESTI system for direct entry into it. An exception is intended for sites located in hard-to-reach and/or remote areas and for which there is no communication connectivity, the entry shall be made once a week. These areas are defined by the Minister of Tourism and published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism based on data from the Communications Regulation Commission. The law also provides clarity on the information in the registers for accommodated tourists entering the ECTI. The first group includes data on Bulgarian tourists and tourists from the European Union, from countries countries of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, as well as from the Swiss Confederation. The second category of data refers to other foreign tourists. Changes in the order of keeping the registers of tourist sites classified in the territory of the municipality concerned are provided for. With the changes these registers become an integral part of the electronic National Tourist Register, and the regime of keeping them changed as well. During the discussion the MPs who spoke supported the need to adopt the proposed changes. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 10 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Single applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u126	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. You guys did great. Let us see what reactions the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order rapporteur will gather. [[Happy tidings.]] Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, in short. The applause usually depends not on the length of the speech, but on the content. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 602-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2016. At a regular meeting held on 13 July 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 602-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2016. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Tourism: Irena Georgieva The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Irena Georgieva. According to the proposed amendments and additions, the Minister of Tourism develops, builds and maintains a National Tourist Register as a Single Information System, and the Single Tourism Information System (ESTI) as part of the National Tourism Register will link in real time hotel registers with the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Interior, the National Revenue Agency, the National Statistical Institute and municipalities. The information system will only reflect the data required by the Law. Data shall be entered into the single system on a daily basis, via a publicly available web or other interface, through a secure communication session of connectivity. Where the site is located in a difficult or remote area for which there is no communication connectivity, the entry shall be made once a week by the Minister of Tourism and shall be published on the website of the Ministry on the basis of data from the Communications Regulation Commission. The access of the municipalities, the NRA, the Ministry of Interior and the National Statistical Institute will be remote and the scope of the data is limited according to what was established in the Law on the relevant category of entities. The bill for amending and supplementing the Tourism Act in the part of the Single Tourist Information System is also providing for administrative penalties for non-compliance. We believe that the proposed reform will contribute to the efficient and rapid processing of tourist information and create better control by the Ministry of Interior over the address registration of foreign citizens in Bulgaria, will strengthen security measures and strengthen the confidence of citizens in the institutions. The amendments envisaged to this effect are aimed at meeting the objectives of the Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers to counter radicalisation and terrorism and the Strategy Implementation Plan and correspond directly to the measures envisaged to prevent and address threats to public policy and security. They also create conditions for improving the organisation and activities of specialized structures, while all data will be processed according to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the European legislation in force. The MPs Krasimir Yankov, Dimitar Delchev, Valentin Radev and Atanas Merdjanov took part in the debates. Krasimir Yankov expressed the position that the tourism industry has claims regarding the planned property sanctions, which are unjustifiedly high in size and are impossible for hoteliers. They also insist on providing for the possibility that, at the first detection of an infringement, a constitutional protocol should be drawn up and prescriptions should be issued and not directly passed on to sanctions. Their motives are related to the problem they have with regard to staff. Following the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 602-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u128	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Following is a report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. I see Mr. Ananiev is not in the room. Any other representative of the committee? The Vice-President will report. Mr. Valkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 602-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2016. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 29 June 2016, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act was discussed, No 602-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2016. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Irena Georgieva, Deputy Minister of Tourism, Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior and Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The bill was presented by Mrs. Georgieva. This bill introduces amendments to the existing arrangements of the Single Tourism Information System (ESTI). The reform covers the regulatory framework for regulating several groups of public relations. The reform will contribute to the efficient and rapid processing of tourist information. The automated data exchange in the middle of the Single Tourist Information System will not only facilitate hoteliers, but will also provide immediate access to the current tourist information they seek from the institutions concerned. The data on tourists accommodated in the EUTS single register are not public. They are only accessed by the law entities. The current regime provides for registers to be kept for accommodated tourists by hotel owners in paper form, with monthly information to be sent to municipalities. This row does not provide sufficient traceability and accountability to supervised entities and does not allow adequate registration of foreign tourists in accordance with the requirements of art. 28 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. With the development of technologies and the construction of a modern electronic Single Tourist Information System and given the existence of an existing Law on Electronic Governance, this order of record keeping by debtors should be changed. The bill states that all persons engaged in hotels, including those who have started categorisation proceedings, must keep a register of tourists accommodated with data composition established by the Minister of Tourism and published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism. A new requirement is introduced for persons conducting hotel services in accommodation accommodations of class "A" class, to keep a register through a centralised information system maintained by the Minister of Tourism, accessible via a public web-based or other online access application or through a person selected by the person performing hospitality, an information system meeting the requirements of the Law on Electronic Governance. In view of the greater financial burden for hoteliers operating in class B (in tourist huts, tourist information centers, tourist bedrooms, rottels, bots and flots), it is intended to enable them to keep the register in paper form, established by the Minister of Tourism. The proposed amendments provide for an easier procedure for the exchange and processing of data from the registers of accommodated persons. A direct channel for connection between hoteliers and ESTI is created without the need for this information to be transmitted first to the municipality and then secondaryly to the ESTI. The information from the registers is directly entered into the centralised database of ESTI, which makes it significantly faster, inexpensive and effective, and reduces the risk of errors and incompleteness. In practice, the data will be entered into ESTI in real time. For accommodations of class "B" (touristic huts, tourist information centers, tourist bedrooms, rotors, bottels and flots) that do not keep a register in electronic form, the data exchange shall be made through their daily entry into the Single Tourist Information System via a publicly accessible web or other interface, through a secure communication session for connectivity. To this end, individuals are relieved not to introduce their own information systems, but will use a publicly accessible interface of the centralised ESTI system for direct entry into it. An exception is intended for sites located in hard-to-reach and/or remote areas and for which there is no communication connectivity, the entry shall be made once a week. These areas are defined by the Minister of Tourism and published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism based on data from the Communications Regulation Commission. The draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Tourism Act takes another step forward in integrating new technologies into the administration. It is also possible to pay the fee for changing the recorded circumstances in the NTR by electronic means. In the course of the debate, questions were raised regarding the existence of a financial justification for the bill and a negative impact on the budget. In response by the importers, it was pointed out that the construction of this system, especially in its first stage, will take place through the budget of the Ministry of Tourism in the Programme "Sustainable development of the tourist product" and no additional budget funds will be needed. The creation of this system will not weigh on the budget of municipalities, because ECTI will be able to be built so that they can use the system chosen by public procurement. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u130	This presented all the reports on this Bill. My fellow Members, I am opening the debates at first reading in the order described in our Rules. Please wish to speak. Mr. Bayraktarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor for speech to allow colleagues from the Political Party GERB to come to the Chamber. As the bill is consensual, I naturally state that the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front gives its strong and full support to the Tourism Act, so we will support it. I hope that the Law will be supported by a good majority, because it is really good and as quickly as possible to accept it at second reading. We can move on to a vote, even.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u132	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov, you are definitely helping me today. Would anyone like to replicate Mr. Bayraktarov's statement? No. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Before the vote, Minister Angelkova, please let us hear your word on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u133	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank everyone for supporting this bill, because it is extremely important in the field of tourism, as well as in the lightening of a large part of the sector, and fully corresponds to measures in the fight against terrorism and threats to public policy and security. Thank you all for the support and I hope that it will pass as quickly as possible at second reading so that we can demonstrate from next year how the ESTI registry will work to connect hotel systems with the NRA, the Ministry of Interior and municipalities via online connection and secure channels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u134	Thank you, Minister Angelkova. Honourable Members, we are voting at first reading on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 602-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2016. Please, voting mode. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The proposal is adopted, with which the Bill at first reading. Honourable Members, we are going to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE OWNITY AND USE OF EARTHS OF EARTHS. Importer s. Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva, on 4 July 2016. Adopted in the first vote on 14 July Ms. Karayancheva, please start with the second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! "According to the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, No 654-01-83, submitted by the National Representative Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva on 4 July 2016, adopted at the first vote on 14 July 2016. The Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u136	Statements? I won't. Dear colleagues, we are voting on the text of the importer for the name of the Law. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u137	Under § 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva, made in accordance with Article 1. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u138	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 1 by importer. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 1 by importer is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u139	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u140	Statements referred to in paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 by importer, fully supported by a new numbering? I won't. We are voting from 2 to 5 paragraphs by importer, which become respectively paragraphs 1 to 4, fully supported by an importer. 90 MPs voted: 83, no objection, abstention 7. Paragraphs have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u141	Under § 6 there is a proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Maria Belova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 and the following 1. In para. The 4th sentence first of all, the words..10....................................................................................................... is replaced by................................................................................................................................................ 2. In para. 5 is finally added to the Rules on the Implementation of the Law and sentences are created second and third: The applications are submitted in person or by post and are registered in the municipal administration. The refusal to register is subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code before the district governor on the location of the property. 3. In para. 13 sentence first after the word "rent" the words "or rent" shall be deleted. 4. In para. 15 the words "one year of business' shall be replaced by "two years of business' and "two years of business' shall be replaced by "one year of business'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u142	Colleagues, speeches on the reported paragraph? I won't. We are voting § 5 in the version and numbering of the Commission report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u143	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 7. "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u144	Are there any statements referred to in paragraphs 7, 8 and 9, together with the name of the division on which we only change the numbering? I won't. We vote on paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 by importer, which become respectively paragraphs 6 to 8 including, together with the name They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u145	Paragraph 10? a proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4. 2 of the SSC. § 10 to be rejected. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 10 be rejected. Paragraph 11? a proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the SSC. § 11 to be rejected. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 11 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u146	Colleagues, speeches on the Commission's proposals for the rejection of the two paragraphs - § 10 and § 11 by importer? I won't. Anblock, we vote on the Commission's proposals for the rejection of § 10 and § 11 by importer. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u147	Paragraph 12 "Proposition of the People's Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 12, which becomes § 9: ..................................................... In the Law on the Conservation of Agricultural Land (prom, SG 6a) § 6a of the Transitional and Final Provisions is amended as follows: 6a. A change in the purpose of agricultural land with a permanent use of fields, meters and meadows from the municipal land fund shall be permitted where it is: 1. provided with a common planning for the respective territory of the municipality; 2. provided for the construction of sites of national importance, national sites within the meaning of § 1 of the Additional Provisions of the State Property Act, as well as municipal sites of paramount importance; 3. provided for the construction of objects of technical infrastructure within the meaning of the Law on construction of the territory, of archaeological sites within the meaning of the Law on Cultural Heritage and of special objects related to the defence and security of the country; 4. Granted concession by decision of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u148	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 9 in the version of the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u149	Paragraph 13. Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In the Law on Landing in Agriculture (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 the words "notary books" shall be replaced by "the services" of the. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 para. Five 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 shall be added at the end, and in such cases the tenant shall immediately notify the landlord of any over-rewarding, betting or transfer of rights. (b) in para. 2 shall be added at the end, including for the lease payment. (c) the creation of para. 4. In the event of non-compliance with para. 1 " 3 tenants may unilaterally terminate the lease with two-month written notice. The notice shall be sent to the tenant within one year of the knowledge of over-arrangement, betting or transfer of rights. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1 the words "notary books" shall be replaced by the entries'. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 para. 2 is amended as follows: The termination of the land lease contract shall be entered into the Registry Office and registered in the respective municipal agriculture office. Paragraph 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 11. Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Zhelev, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In the Law on Forests (prom., SG No. ...) § 48, para. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Forests ( SG No. 60 from 2015) in the text before t. 1 the word "Adjoining' shall be replaced by "Adjoining' and "Adjoining' to the buildings. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u150	Colleagues, speeches under paragraphs 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the Report? I won't. Anblok, we vote on these paragraphs. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The proposals were adopted unanimously, and thus at second reading and the Bill. Colleagues, from our weekly program outside the Controls for tomorrow remained only the intended point, as there are not 24 hours from the moment of presentation of the report? First vote of the Bill for Supplement to the Law on Radio and Television, importers: Slavcho Atanasov, Valeri Simeonov, Nayden Zelenogorski, Dimitar Glauchev and Rosen Petrov. I expect the debate on this point to end before 11.00 when our parliamentary control is traditionally scheduled, which is why I suggest that we vote and adopt a procedural decision that it will begin immediately after the vote on this Bill, as it is good for the ministers who are ready to report to have the opportunity to answer more questions and questions of the Members of the National Assembly. [[BSP LB.]] We're not canceling. I'm talking about 2:00. The aim is to withdraw Parliamentary control further. It would be inexplicable for me to end around 10:00 and wait an hour for Parliamentary control to begin. Is there a reverse opinion? Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u151	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I do not agree with this proposal. I think there is an opportunity to consider some other bills that have been passed through committees. I urge you not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-21.u152	They're not in the program, they're not on the agenda. [[Definitions between President Tsetska Tsacheva and National Representative Valeri Simeonov.]] A procedural proposal has been made, on which we have heard back the opinion that Parliament's control should begin immediately after the end of our legislative programme, which has been voted on so far. Colleagues, we're voting. Vote 95 MPs: 90 against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary Control Communication on 22 July 2016, with an initial time after the completion of the National Assembly's legislative programme: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer two questions from the MPs Ayhan Etem and Mikhail Mikov. 2. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer five questions from the MPs Krasimir Yankov, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, Christian Vigenin, Dimitar Tanev, Vasil Antonov. 3. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer three questions from the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Gunaj Heusmen and Jayhan Ibryamov. 4. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer seven questions from the MPs Miho Mihov and two questions, Yavor Haytov, Atanas Zafirov, Velizar Enchev, Angel Naydenov and Manol Genov and one question from the National Representative Angel Naydenov. 5. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer three questions from the MPs Ivan Penkov Ivanov, Ivan Stankov, Georgi Kovachev and a question from the National Representative Willi Lilkov. 6. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer five questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Velizar Enchev, Rumen Gechev, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski and Georgi Svilenski's own question. 7. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer five questions from the MPs Nikolay Alexandrov, Saliha Emin, Chavdar Georgiev, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov and Jayhan Ibryamov. 8. Justice Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer two questions from the MPs Dimitar Delchev and Jayhan Ibryamov. 9. Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs Dora Yankova, Georgi Kuchukov and Petar Kadiev. 10. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova will answer two questions from the National Representative Ivan Ibrishimov. 11. The Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski will answer a question from the National Representative Borislav Milanov and a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev. 12. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer three questions from MPs Nikola Hadzhiyski, Nikolay Alexandrov and Dora Yankova. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question from the National Representative Kristian Vigenin; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question with written answer from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva to two questions with written answer from the MPs Metodi Andreev and Stefan Zhelev; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to six questions with written answer from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev, Petar Slavov, Mihail Mikov, Willi Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreyev, Mariana Boyadjieva, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. Due to the lack of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, will not participate: Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov and Minister of Health Petar Moskov. Due to prior commitments made in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva will not participate. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science Meglena Kuneva will not participate. Due to the exhaustion of the legislative programme for today, I am calling off the meeting. Tomorrow, a regular meeting with a starting time of 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
