ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear colleagues, today is the first Wednesday of April. The programme shall be drawn up and proposed to the Members of the National Assembly under the special rules of art. 50, para. 8 that is, on a proposal from the parliamentary groups, taking into account the rotation of the groups for the respective month. This month's first ABB group. They propose the First Voting of the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on War Veterans. Importers are Miho Mihov and a group of MPs. GERB's Parliamentary Group proposes the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria proposes a draft decision on the need to promote interparliamentary dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation. Importers are Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is for the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Ilija Iliev and a group of MPs are importing. The proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block is for the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importers are Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. The groups of the Patriotic Front, the Bulgarian Democratic Center and the Ataka have not made any proposals. These five points are entered by law in the Programme for today and are not subject to vote. Furthermore, the proposal for a Programme is as follows: 6. Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act. Importers: Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importers: Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs. 8. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Black Sea Coast Construction Act The first is with importers Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs, the second is with importers Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. 9. Second vote on a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention. Importer: Council of Ministers. 10. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for members of the Council for Electronic Media from the quota of the National Assembly, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media, and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 11. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (IFF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of MOF and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory and the Additional Arrangement to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (IFF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the MOF and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory. Importer: Council of Ministers. 12. Draft Law on the ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic. Importer: Council of Ministers. 13. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative Republic of Brazil on Social Security. Importer: Council of Ministers. 14. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on the Single Patent Court. Importer: Council of Ministers. 15. Parliamentary control under art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly This is the blitzcontrol provided for today, Wednesday, 6 April 2016, at 12.00 p.m. 16. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for Friday with starting time 11.00 This Friday, we will start with the previous controls last Friday's debate on questions by MPs Rumen Gechev and Cornelia Ninova to Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov on the government's financial policy. Then, in the rest of the time, we will hear answers to questions and questions asked by the MPs to the members of the government. Colleagues, I ask that we vote on the Programme in its section. 6 to t. 16. They voted 146 MPs: 130, against 1, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Two proposals have been made for reasons of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules. The first is Mr. Chetin Kazak's co-chair of the DPS Parliamentary Group, which proposes to include in our weekly program a bill for amendment and supplement of the Municipal Property Act, No 454-01-56, submitted by Iliya Iliev and a group of MPs. Mr. Kazak, you have two minutes to defend your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u2	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! You can see that this week the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has carried out a legislative initiative on both sides of the House. 8, by proposing a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Personal Documents submitted by Ilija Iliev and a group of MPs; and now by para. 3 of art. 50 We propose to examine the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Municipal Property submitted by the same importers. The two bills are linked. They concern directly the social problems of the Roma community in the Republic of Bulgaria, which for many years remain unresolved because of the reluctance of the state and its institutions. This legislative initiative is on the occasion of the upcoming International Roma Feast 8 April. The problems of Roma, however, are not at all festive. The reason for the bills, because as you can see, they were introduced at the end of 2014, it is not happy at all. Specially the bill proposed under para. 3 concerns the obligation of the state when it comes to forced removal of illegal buildings inhabited by Roma to provide adequate housing to these families in advance. You know what happened back in Garmen. You also know the intervention of the European Court of Human Rights for the case in Garmen. He stopped the demolition of some of the buildings precisely because there were no adequate housing provided by the respective municipal authorities. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This problem concerns many settlements and it is high time for a legislative solution to the problems of the Roma community in Bulgaria, one of which is this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u3	I put to the vote the proposal made to include this Bill in our weekly programme. They voted 136 MPs: 30, against 31, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is by Mihail Mikov, Mariana Boyadjieva and Valeri Zablyanov for inclusion in the program of the first vote of the Draft Law amending the Law on pre-school and school education, No 654-01-11 of 4 February 2016 with importer Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. Mrs. Boyadjieva, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u4	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, with the Bill we propose to postpone the implementation of the Preschool and School Education Act by one year. Adopted with many promises, the new Education Act instead of the expected and due clear and stable framework of education actually led to serious tensions and at times chaos. It was adopted without making clear the content of the standards provided for therein. The requirement for the implementation of the Law on Regulatory Acts was not met. The drafts of the regulations were to be drawn up together with the Bill. The point of the present case is that these regulations must essentially ensure the application of the Law and arrange for long-term public relations not governed by the Law. Their importance for education for each school, for each Bulgarian family requires enough time for their development and their serious public discussion. The short time limits for preparing the regulations bring confusion, chaos and ambiguities to the new curriculums and textbooks, which can have long-term and severe consequences for Bulgarian education. I will give just one example.. Minister Meglena Kuneva announced two days ago that the students from the first and fifth grade will start the school year with the old textbooks. Time limits do not allow procedures for new textbooks to be completed by September 15th. Thus the first class will study the letters in different order, and the fifth graders will work on the so-called work lists prepared by the teachers. Therefore, we believe that the extension of the time for preparation of the entry of the Law and the postponement of the deadline for its entry into force will reduce to reasonable limits the risk of contradictions and errors that can cause severe consequences of the quality of Bulgarian secondary education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u5	Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal made to include this Bill in the weekly programme. They voted 129 MPs: 29, against 61, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. Show the results in groups. Revoting Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, honourable creators of this Law, which ruins Bulgarian education! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You have mastered the millions of projects and European funds, but now the problem has been addressed to the Bulgarian children. Where did children in the world learn one textbook until New Year's and another textbook after New Year's?! That's what you're offering them. Where was it seen in the world to apply a law of half of the year and in separate classes?! Postpone this Law and its implementation because Bulgarian children are not white mice. Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u7	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 131 MPs: 37 against 67, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 30 March to 5 April 2016: Draft amending and supplementing the Law on the settlement of rights of citizens with multi-annual housing-saving deposits. Importer supposes Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Committee on Legal Affairs is attached. Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. Importer....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is assigned to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Complaints of Citizens, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Education and Science. Report on the Commission's activities on the revocation of illegally acquired property in 2015. Importer "The Commission on the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Air Communications between and beyond their respective territories. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. More will be seen by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Law amending the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers......................................................................................................................... The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill for declaring authoritarian regimes in the period 1923 and 1934 and 1944 as criminal. Importer "Mihail Mikov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Report of the Commission's action to protect against discrimination for 2015. Importer "Commission for Protection against Discrimination." It has been assigned to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Report on the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for 2015. Importer "The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission." It is allocated to the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the Energy Commission. Report on the activities of the Council for Electronic Media for the period 1 July It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. Project for a decision on the adoption of the Project for Investment Expenditure "Acquiring of a new type of fighter aircraft." Importer of the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Defence Committee and the Budget and Finance Committee. Project for a decision on the adoption of the Project for Investment Expenditure "Acquiring of a multifunctional modular patrol ship of the Naval Forces." Importer of the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Defence Committee and the Budget and Finance Committee. Draft Decision on the Debrief No 654-05-30 of 26 February 2016 by MPs Rumen Gechev and Cornelia Ninova to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on the financial policy of the government. Importers "Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. The debates are on Friday, at the beginning of parliamentary control this week. Draft decision to take an act from Recommendation No 204 of the International Labour Organisation on the transition from informal to formal economy adopted at the 104th session of the International Labour Conference on 12 June 2015 in Geneva. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. Importer "The Council of Ministers." It's assigned to the Defense Committee. Two more messages: On 1 April 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 April 2016 to 31 April 2016 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 April 2016 to 31 April 2020. No 602-00-21 was received in the National Assembly by a Report on the implementation of the Preparation Plan of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018 for the period November 2015 - January 2016, adopted by Decision No 236 of the Council of Ministers of 2016. By my letter the Report was submitted to the Presidents and Co-Chairs of the Parliamentary Groups and the Chairs of Standing Committees. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 4 April 2016, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly received a Report on the report on the level of implementation of the established policies and programmes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for 2015, together with two annexes thereto. The report is made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Foreign Policy and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the legislative part of our program today. The first proposal is on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR WAR WATCHED. Importers are Miho Mihov and a group of MPs. A report came in from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. There is no report from the Budget and Finance Committee. With the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, Mr. Ademov will introduce us. Before that procedure, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedure for admission in the hall of Sophie Pinkas and Ivan Sechanov. Representatives of the Union of War Veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u9	Dear Mr. Belemezov, only members of the Council of Ministers, Deputy Ministers and Directors can be admitted to the Chamber. Such guests can only be on the balcony of the National Assembly, which is why I cannot allow your proposal to vote. Mr. Ademov, we're listening to your report. Then we will hear the report from the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on War Veterans, No 554-01-160, submitted by Miho Mihov and a group of MPs on 7 October 2015. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at a regular meeting held on 18 November 2015 discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on War Veterans with importers Miho Mihov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor of the National Insurance Institute, experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Defence. The bill was presented by MP Miho Mihov. With this bill, importers propose an improvement in the social and health status of war veterans. It is clear from the motives of the Bill that importers have the belief that even so far the state has dealt with the problems of war veterans and has given them enough benefits and even privileges. But not everyone can benefit from benefits and privileges because of their poor health and advanced age. Many need permanent medical and social care. They need escorts, assistants and patronage. Many veterans cannot afford complex and costly medical and dental operations or selection of a treatment team. The list of free medicines and the order to receive them, as well as the order of examinations, creates a number of bureaucratic problems, and many veterans find it difficult to enjoy these rights. The importers of the bill especially hold on to the changes in art. 4 t. 1 because they aim to eliminate the list and order of receiving free medicines. The medicines will be given with a prescription by the personal or treating physician and with a document stating that the person is a veteran will be obtained from any pharmacy. Another change he is very fond of is related to those accompanying war veterans. According to importers, veterans are often unable to visit and use the services of boarding houses and recovery facilities themselves and need a chaperone. Most often these are the husband, wife or one of the veteran's children. The proposal is that these accompanying persons also use the relevant services free of charge at the expense of the state budget. The importers of the Bill are convinced that the proposed proposals will remove the mentioned and other problems experienced by war veterans. According to them, the Bill does not bear a financial burden on the state budget, but it carries moral and moral dimensions. The draft was presented by MPs Mariana Todorova, Dimitar Bajraktarov and Hassan Ademov. The opinions of the Ministry of Defence, which is supportive, were presented by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which do not support the bill. The opinions of the veterans' and military disability organizations are positive. Assoc. Assoc. Prof. Ivan Sechanov, Chairman of the Union of War Veterans in Bulgaria, Assoc. Sophie Pinkas from the same organization and eng. Mr. Petar Velchev, Chairman of the Union of Military Disabilities and Military Victims. Following the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 6 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly not to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on War Veterans, No 554-01-160, submitted by Miho Dimitrov Mihov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u11	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. With the report of the Committee on Health and Health, we will be introduced by its President... the public representative Dr. Daniela Daritkova. You have the floor, dear Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on War Veterans, No 554-01-160, submitted by Miho Dimitrov Mihov and a group of MPs on 7 October 2015. At its regular meeting held on 10 December 2015, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on War Veterans, No 554-01-160, submitted by Miho Mihov and a group of MPs on 7 October 2015. The meeting was attended by Dr. Boyko Penkov and Dr. Adam Persenski, Deputy Minister of Health, Assoc. Dr. Ivan Sechanov "President of the Union of War Veterans in Bulgaria, experts as well as representatives of trade union, consensus and non-governmental organizations in the field of health. The bill was presented by the MP Georgi Kuchukov, who pointed out that the number of veterans decreased progressively by about 30% a year and by the end of 2015 the veterans of the wars in the country number about 3,200 people, which is in support of the claim that the bill will not lead to a burden on the state budget, and in particular the budget of the Ministry of Health. Prof. Sečanov said that the texts discussed were not legally valid, but asked the MPs to express their principled support and to refine them between the first and second reading of the Bill. Several members of the Committee on Health spoke on the bill, with Mr. Dimitar Bajraktarov stating that most of the texts of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on War Veterans have already been included in the Rules of Implementation and enter into force since 1 January 2016. Ms. Nadezhda Brankovska, an expert from the Ministry of Health, informed the MPs that war veterans enjoy all the rights of insured persons, all kinds of medical care, as well as building medical care. The opinion of the Ministry is that it is not appropriate to create a parallel order for the care of war veterans. After the discussion held and after the vote on the following results: the Draft Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Law for War Veterans, No 554-01-160, submitted by Miho Dimitrov Mihov and a group of MPs on 7 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u13	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. The opinion of the importer will introduce us to the people representative Miho Mihov. Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u14	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is known that the Thirty-eightth National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted the Law on War Veterans, which was supplemented by the Forty-Fourth National Assembly. The law is an expression of due gratitude to all war veterans, led by the Bulgarian State for the protection of the national interests and territorial integrity of Bulgaria. By defining the status of veterans, the Law regulates rights and social benefits as an addition to the pension for age and service in the amount of social pension, granting free medicines on an established list by the Ministry of Health, the right to recreation and treatment in sanatoriums of ministries, NSIs, a number of municipalities and the right to free travel by rail under an established scheme. The legislator has provided for advantages when using the services of social patronage, elderly homes and dining chairs. As an importer of the presented Project for amendment and supplement to the Law on War Veterans, I stand before you with conviction that the proposed changes today are the primary necessity for the remaining small part of the society Bulgarian citizens with a worthy mission to fight arms in hand on the political decisions of the state. The aim of the proposed amendments and additions is to bring the Law to the practical needs of the rest of the last hot war of 90 years and older around 3500 veterans, so that, with the help of their loved ones, with a simpler administrative procedure and more involved state and municipal administration, they are able to actually benefit from the social benefits given to them by the state and society. The Bill proposes to settle and further extend some rights that have a strong moral meaning. At the same time, with the constant reduction of the care of the country in the health and social problems of veterans, I apologize for the clarification, due to a 30% annual mortality among them, it will be possible, without an increase in financial costs, to receive free highly qualified medical care, to use a companion in a steady treatment without the burden of payment, to receive prescription medicines and discretion from the personal physician depending on the disease, to use sanatorial treatment under a certain scheme, even in the active period, and to lead a meaningful union life, which makes it an honor that this Union has a dignified leadership. I would like to stress that with the amendments to the Act, additional budget funds above the current level, according to importers in the next few years will not be necessary. In today's terms, in the mandate of our National Assembly these are the only veterans involved in the fighting of the Bulgarian Army of State interest. For some it is the Homeland War, for others it is Bulgaria's illegal war against yesterday's ally, for part of society it is a debt, for another part it is pointless, with thousands of victims. Whatever the personal and collective assessment, we should recall that different in purpose and meaning was the war in the minds of the soldiers, the sergeants, the officers, and the generals who did not make the political decisions to participate in it. However, in the battle formation, in defense and offensive, well-known our operations all had one goal and this is victory at all costs, because time required it. Today, as I said, the veterans stayed alive about 3,500. And now, as then, they also have their differences, assessments and opinions. However, they strive and live together, they are united in the Union, and most important to us, they need the same help and attention. As members of the parliamentary represented in the Chamber of the Forty- Third National Assembly, we also have our own personal and collective opinion and conviction. But I think that right now, at the moment, we can be united in a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u15	Thank you, dear General. Mihov. I am opening the debate, honourable Members. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll be brief. With enthusiasm and conviction, I will support the Bill, I believe that we owe these changes to the few remaining veterans. Let us be aware that in their vast majority these are people over the age of 90 and do not have the opportunity personally to enjoy the insufficient number of privileges and social benefits that this Law gives them. If we allow them to have an escort when they use them, we will greatly alleviate the last years of their lives and make these benefits real because for a large part of them at the moment they are unreal. You realize that 92 - 93 - year - olds would hardly use the free train ticket, for example, because they rarely have to travel. God forbid we ever have any veterans again. It's about very few people who don't mind giving as much as we can in their last decent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u17	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Patriotic Front, I would like to state that we will support this bill. This is a consistent position because in 2006, when the Alliance of War Veterans numbered 13,000 members, colleague Boris Yachev introduced a bill that actually gave rise to the settlement of many social benefits for these decent people. Although the Law is not perfect, it has mostly the moral expression of appreciation that they deserve. The patriotic front with its support expresses its appreciation because they really deserve another attitude. It's a small group of people. Unfortunately, colleagues, most of them are already at a bowing age and really need to receive additional social benefits, which, as the gene said. Mihov, will not load the budget, as many of these benefits are already regulated in the Rules of Implementation of the Law in one way or another. There is nothing wrong with them being also legally regulated, with texts in the Law itself. We will strongly support the Bill. I also call on my fellow Members from the other parliamentary groups to support it, because, I repeat, it has mostly moral value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. For speech there is the popular representative Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, I express our support for the proposed Bill amending and supplementing the Law on War Veterans. This can also be seen from the list of importers, in which our representatives in the Defence Commission have also signed the presented bill. The bill is justified because it aims to make certain adjustments to the current one. In my opinion, we owe the necessary respect, social protection and care to the increasing number of people who are addressed to this Law. Let me draw attention to the fact that thanks to the participation of these people as part of the Bulgarian army, both mobilized and volunteers from the autumn of 1944 until the spring of 1945, Bulgaria managed to avoid another national catastrophe because with the participation of these people it was treated more favorably and not entirely, like the other countries that fought against the coalition that won the war against fascism. This is a historical lesson because not once has Bulgaria started military actions on one side, ended them on another, but this is a lesson to politicians rather than to Bulgarian officers and soldiers who fought bravely on the fronts and defended the interests of Bulgaria as they were formulated for their time. Less than 3500 are currently the people to whom these changes can be applied. This bill barely provides for new rights, but only additions to the scope of the law already in force. It is more about additional opportunities for accompanying veterans from their relatives or other persons who take care of them in hospitals when visiting the sanatoriums. This Law actually shows the weaknesses of the Bulgarian health system, because a large part of these rights, which are offered here for veterans, should be the rights of all health insurance Bulgarian citizens. That is, to have a comprehensive treatment that does not require additional medical care and to provide a free companion in hospitals when additional care is required. However, at least for these people should be further avoided the inconveniences that are created. I see that the Committee on Health has shown a little more humanism than the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, yet raising the necessary votes to support the bill. I call on all MPs, not only because there should be people here who are direct heirs of the veterans of the wars, sons and daughters, grandchildren of such people, but as a responsibility to this part of the Bulgarian citizens, to show the necessary empathy and respect. I would like to say that we will also make an additional proposal, as we did recently, to the veterans of the wars to be aligned and to those who participated in the anti-fascist resistance in Bulgaria. These are not more than 1,500 remaining living people - partisans, political prisoners, concentration campers - these are people who stand on the same side, but of their own free will, in no less trials and earlier than Bulgaria's accession to the anti-hitler coalition. Such an alignment of these individuals has been carried out in a number of European countries such as Greece, France, Belgium and others, and I think it is good, regardless of political differences, to overcome such divisions in order to pay tribute to all those who are of the same age, in many cases in the same social situation and need the same care to be given to them. With this clarification, with this agreement, we support the proposals tabled and call once again on the MPs to give their support to the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on War Veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. For a statement there is the national representative Rosen Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, I can say that we will support the bill at first reading, as it primarily speaks not only the letter of the Law, but also the spirit of the Law, but the spirit of the Law must always be moral. If we do not pay tribute to these few remaining Bulgarians who spilled their blood on the front for the interests of Bulgaria, then I see no point in the existence of such an institution. Indeed, today we must show ourselves united, united in order to protect the interests of 3,500 people. So many of them are alive. Let us not forget, as Mr. Stoilov mentioned, that if it were not for these wars, the Serbian border would pass through Slivnitsa, the Greek was not known where it would pass. It was with their shed blood at Strazhin, Stracin, that these people were able to protect the interests of Bulgaria in Dravasobolch. I call on you all together at first reading to support this Bill because it is truly moral and pays tribute to these... in just a few days we will again go to offer wreaths to the Monument of the Unknown Warrior, who did not die for Bulgaria, but gave their blood for it and deserve our respect. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. For speech there is the national representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u24	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! This is one of the most pointless debates in parliament, as alphabetical truth is that such bills and proposals automatically need to be adopted. On this occasion, I would like to say that I am terribly surprised by the opinion of the Committee on Social Policy, which must then be renamed by the Committee on Social Policy in the Committee on Antisocial Policy. How is it possible that this Commission will vote against the giving of these privileges is not the right word, of these legal privileges of the Bulgarian soldiers of the First and Second Bulgarian Army, who with their blood defended Bulgaria's right at the Paris Peace Conference in 1947, not to be treated, we were not treated as a country winner, but we were also not treated as a defeated state. Now I'm going to tell you the biggest paradox, you can safely check it on the Internet, do you know what privileges the Wehrmacht soldiers have in the Federal Republic of Germany? Quite a high pension, 100% free health care and other social privileges, of course, depending on their respective province. If today this bill is not adopted, we will put the soldiers of the First and Second Bulgarian Army who defeated the Wehrmacht in the territory of Yugoslavia, Hungary, and even entered Austria and reached Klagenfurt, and the soldiers of the German Wehrmacht, the German regular army, will be placed in a privileged position as a defeated country of the First and Second Bulgarian Army. I'd go even further in this bill. I fully support what Mr. Yanaki Stoilov said, that in a new proposal, a new bill, the participants in the anti-fascist resistance must be aligned to the soldiers of the First and Second Bulgarian Army, but I am going a little further. I would suggest that the fighters of the First and Second Bulgarian Army, the so-called Veterans of the Wars, should receive the maximum pension in Bulgaria 910 BGN. and complete medical care, free of charge, including entry, if necessary and at their request, in hospice. Again, it is impossible for the fighters from the Wehrmacht of Hitlerist Germany to be treated in an incredibly civilized and social way, and the soldiers from the Bulgarian Army, the Bulgarian veterans to pray, to humiliate themselves, to be put to the vote in the antisocial committee and to reject the proposal to receive these minimal benefits. I therefore hope that the MPs of GERB, who have not spoken so far, will support this bill, as this is not only a social but also a patriotic issue. Thank you for your attention and support, I hope.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u25	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. For speech there is the word of the national representative Svetlana Angelova from the Parliamentary Group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We in the political party GERB parliamentary group generally support any initiative that would lead to better conditions to ensure decent old age for war veterans. Some of the proposed changes will create better living conditions corresponding to the needs of war veterans. And now this category of citizens have a number of social and health rights, which are of the competence of several institutions "the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy," the Ministry of Health and the municipalities. The adoption of the additional rights that are governed by this Bill is an expression of the public's appreciation for this category of Bulgarian citizens, and we of the GERB Parliamentary Group will support this bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. To speak the word has the popular representative Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I begin with the fact that our parliamentary group will support, as in the committees, the proposed Bill, with the clear awareness that it is primarily about the moral and moral dimensions of this Project, and not as much about privileges and rights, as has been said here just now. My fellow Members, I would like to begin with the fact that the proposals made actually complement some of the existing rights of war veterans. It's about free meds. The request of importers is to remove the list and order of granting free medicines. This list is endorsed by an interdepartmental commission, which also includes representatives of war veterans, representatives of the Union of Military Disabilities and military victims as representatives of non-governmental organisations. However, unfortunately, this Commission, as was said at the Social Committee meeting, has not had a meeting in the last three years, which has not enabled the updating of the list of medicinal products, which is the basis of the request of importers. It is impressive that it is proposed that all outpatient, hospital, dental care be free, and that the services related to the provision of escorts be free. There will be a serious problem here whether this can be done only with the proposals that are made in this Law, because all these proposals also require a change in other regulations, including a change in laws. For example, the Health Insurance Act must be changed. The dispensation Regulation must be amended because it has shown the order in which the dispensary examinations are carried out, and here a new one is offered, different from what exists in the current dispensation Regulation. There is talk of a special dispensary report, of active dispensation, something that should be provided for in the relevant regulations. With regard to recreation and treatment, it is said that once a year in the sanatoriums of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the National Insurance Institute, in the facilities of the Dear colleagues, I will provide you with information, which is from the Ministry of Education. At the time of the review of the Law in the Social Commission, more than 25 days with full service, which includes a hotel part, food, medical procedures, have used 1120 veterans from the wars. At the time of examining the bill in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, an addition to pensions in the size of the social pension for old age received 3571 of the right veterans of wars, so to date as well as importers, veterans of wars enjoy sufficient rights and privileges as they call them. It will not be easy for the leading Commission to adopt all these texts in accordance with other laws. As I just said, changes to other laws and regulations are needed. But anyway, if the National Assembly supports the Bill, we will do our best to conduct this interinstitutional dialogue, because it is about a lot of ministries, about several departments that need to clear their proposals so that we can adopt a working law. If we accept it the way it is now proposed before the second reading, I am convinced that these texts cannot work, because, again, requires a change in several laws and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u29	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on War Veterans, No 554-01-160, submitted by Miho Dimitrov Mihov and a group of MPs on 7 October 2015. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause.]] The bill was unanimously adopted in the first vote. Moving on to the next point: FIRST READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE STATE OFFICER. The bill was submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016 by No 602-01-11. With the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs you will be acquainted with its Chairman, the People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Service Act, No 602-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. At its meeting held on 30 March 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Civil Service Act, No 602-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21.03.2016. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin, Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy; from the political cabinet of the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration: Mr. Anton Gerunov, Head of the Political Office, and Mrs. Kalina Konstantinova, Advisor; from the administration of the Council of Ministers: Mr. Krasimir Bojanov, Director of the Department of Coalition Policy and State Administration Modernization of the Council of Ministers, Ms. Vanya Novakova, State Expert at the Directorate for Modernization of the Administration of the Council of Ministers and Mrs. Diana Doncheva. The bill was presented by Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin. The main objectives of the Bill are to improve objectivity and quality in the selection of employees, as well as to ensure an open and transparent procedure for the transition of employees to another administration and in the case of reassignment. Two stages of the competition for the admission of a public service are regulated. It is proposed that the centralised stage of the competition be organised by the Institute of Public Administration and include tests to determine the level of common competence and the basic knowledge necessary for the occupation of a public service, the validity of the results of which will be three years. The special phase is intended to be carried out by a competition commission designated by the appointing authority and aims to determine the level of specific competences and professional and business qualities of candidates necessary for taking a specific position in the relevant administration. The provisions on the new procedure for holding the competition are set to enter into force from 1 January 2018 in order to provide the necessary technological and organisational prerequisites for its implementation. In order to put an end to the abuse of legal capacity by which the competition is circumvented, a requirement is provided for the appointment of replacement and the reassignment of a vacant post of replacement employees to have successfully completed the centralised stage of the contest. A ban is also envisaged on the reassignment of persons assigned part-time to full-time posts and on the appointment of a part-time management position. The Bill also makes additional proposals in the Law on the Civil Service, aimed at improving the effectiveness of the regulations and creating more opportunities for finding professionals in small towns, developing young professionals in the state administration by introducing a scholarship programme, introducing continuity in leaving key employees, as well as clarifying certain provisions regarding the different treatment of employees employed in employment and service. After the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, without the opposition and 2 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, No 602-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. There is no report from the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the Civil Service Act is an extremely important law, especially nowadays, because many Bulgarians would agree to work in the state administration. It is precisely because I am convinced that we have very qualified and skilled specialists in different areas, we are obliged to make the Law as transparent and accessible as possible to the best professionals in the respective administration. The amendments to the Law are in line with the European recommendations and criteria. That's good. I think for the most part he answers that. However, there are some ideas that would give greater transparency and greater accessibility would make it safer to attract young professionals in different areas. One of the first and main amendments is in art. 10c, para. 2, p. 4 is amended The competition committee shall draw up lists of the applicants admitted and unmissed, who shall announce on the official website of the administration, and in the absence of such a committee at a publicly available location on the seventh day of the final date for submission of the documents. Following the announcement of the candidates admitted and not admitted, the Commission shall indicate the dates of the centralized stage of the contest. New paragraphs 1 to 6 shall be created. The centralized stage of the competition is organized by the Institute of Public Administration. It is precisely this centralisation that I think is very important and has an essential role. The idea of the centralized stage of the competition is to give more transparency to the candidates. The creation of para. 7. So far, the Al. 1 becomes para. 8 and amended as follows: The competition committee conducts the competition in the announced way, assessing the professional and business qualities of the candidates and ranking from first to third place the most successful winners of the competition. Minutes shall be drawn up for the contest. The minutes and all documents of the qualified candidates shall be submitted to the appointing authority within 10 days. In my opinion, this 10-day term is long. What's so complicated about writing a protocol and surrendering?! I think that exactly within these 10 days, which are not few, is given the opportunity for the so-called lobe. We all know that in recent years the state administration has established a practice to appoint liaisons or people close to the management bodies of the relevant administration. In my opinion, it is precisely this 10-day period that creates conditions for bargaining. Maybe it's a good idea to change it to three days. What's so complicated about writing a protocol?! He's up for a few hours. Plus, the protocols and assignments were done in advance. So whoever answers, this will be known as soon as the protocol is drawn up. This is one of the first proposals. Next, in art. 10a the so-called al. 3 becomes para. 10 and amended as follows: The participants in the specialized stage of the competition, who are not ranked first, may object to the appointing authority within 7 days. Here it is so that those who have not won can appeal against those who have initially recommended the ranked candidates to the centralized committee. It's the next ones that cover the other ones, and the other ones cover the first ones. In my opinion, since there is a centralised stage to be held by the Institute of Public Administration, the applicants who appeal should be given the opportunity to bring their complaints to the court. That would give us a more transparent practice. Who else are they appealing to? To those who didn't choose them. It becomes a blur of responsibility. Maybe that's a good thing to take into account. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 13a, para. 6. This is about scholarship students. I think this is an important process. It's a very good idea and it would find a very good application, but there are some things that bother me about candidates and their appointments. The grantee shall be appointed by service after successful passing a test under art. 10d, para. 1 and carried out by the appointing authority an additional interview to establish the specific knowledge of candidates for taking up the particular position. In case of non-compliance with the time limits under para. 4 t. 2 et c. 3 as well as in case the test under art. 10d, para. 1 is not successfully supported, the scholarships paid are reimbursed in full together with the legal interest. The claims of the State in this case are private government claims and are established and collected by the National Revenue Agency. I think we should consider this very carefully. What does a scholarship student who has not passed the exam mean, for example, if he has two years of internship or has worked, but at the end of the second year he fails to pass the exam, fails to meet all the criteria, gets out of the exam committee and has to think about where he will return the money he has taken for two years?! I think that's murderous. Colleague Kirilov, I think it is good to think about it and to allow within six months the scholarship student to appear twice more on an exam with a pre-defined date from the commission. I think it's fair. Another, the scholarshipee must return the money if he has not complied with the terms of para. 4 t. Two and three. Here's what it says. 2: "2." The period within which the scholarshipee is required to acquire the relevant degree of education. That is, if he has two years of time to acquire the appropriate degree, but has not acquired it by the end of the second year, he still has to pay back the money. I think this will create conditions of preliminary fear in many candidates who will be interns. This would lead to the tide of such candidates. In my opinion, it is good to foresee that the Committees can discuss with colleagues who are more specialised in the field of... within six months the grantee can appear once or twice. "3." The period for which the person undertakes to work for his assisted administration shall not be less than three years. In a way, if the fellowship student is assigned to work, but does not work there three full years, if the second year and eleventh month quits, he should return the entire scholarship he took during his internship. In my opinion, this is also a bit rude and repulsive. Young people are developing these days. The fact is that he gave something to the administration in question within two or three years, as long as his internship lasted, but I think it's unfair to approach it in such a way. It's good to have an opportunity here, too. Imagine that he does not get along with the chief he works for, has any problems or there are any violations on the part of the employer under the Labour Code. I think these things should also be tailored. There can be every reason. The young person may have decided to develop in another better area, a different one, to contribute to the Bulgarian economy, to Bulgarian technologies, to Bulgarian culture, no matter what. It can glorify Bulgaria around the world in a given area. And we're kind of tying him up. Three years you don't have to move, otherwise you put all the money back. I think it's pressure, which can lead to the effusion and psychological burden of employees. It is good to take this into account in order to give them more freedom if, for objective reasons, or if the relevant employee with relevant evidence could go to an area that would give something more useful for his development, then after such certain evidence that could be debated in the committee in more detail, allow for a little more air to not be pressed and three years to stay there, otherwise they should return the money. Colleague Kirilov, we will make our proposals and present them in writing. About Art. 16a. It shall be amended as follows: Part-time service Art. 16a. (1) The State official may be appointed on part-time service only in an expert position. The positions which may be held on part-time shall be laid down in the official schedule of the administration concerned. The daily duration of part-time may not be shorter than four hours and longer than six hours. I wonder, can't we make these four hours a two-hour minimum limit?! We need to see how the Labor Code works. There are some positions in which a state administration wants to appoint someone part-time to come, translate something from Chinese, print two or three pages, translate them and give them to their colleague. This thing would take an hour, an hour and a half to two. Why we have to pay each employee four hours, we know that throughout Europe the practice is to pay by the hour. Why do we even have to pay people who haven't worked for four hours? If there's anything that can be done in an hour, why do we have to pay four hours? I made the effort to consider for example 22 working days, if a junior expert gets 600 leva, on a full-time basis are 27 leva. a day. On a four-hour working day - BGN 13.50 a day. If we change the minimum limit to be two hours, we could save about BGN 148. monthly by each such employee appointed to a two-hour job, for example.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u33	Mr. Iliev, would you like a time increase?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u34	Yes, increase the time, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I think it's also good to decide here if it's not good to change the minimum difference. Those were my recommendations, colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, we'll present them in writing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Iliev. - What's the line? I won't. For procedure Mrs. Svetlana Angelova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u36	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be allowed in the Chamber Deputy Minister Galab Donev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u37	We vote on the proposal made by the MP Svetlana Angelova for admission in the hall of Deputy Minister Donev. 70 MPs voted: 67, none, abstention 3. Please invite Deputy Minister Donev to the Chamber. To speak the word has the popular representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to thank the previous speaker, who entered quite a bit into the details of the proposed amendments to the Law on the Civil Serviceman. If I had the chance, I would also comment on some of the proposals. Firstly, I would like to remind and emphasise that this is the fifth draft Bill for the civil servant, which was last submitted on March 21st, as you all understand. The desire of the Legal Commission is to include it in the package of the four other bills, which have been adopted so far at first reading, and if it is supported in the House today, to be included in the joint report, so that we can actually discuss the proposals in the five drafts. Unlike the previous four bills, among which importers are MPs, this is a bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. In this sense, it reflects the view of the central, state executive with regard to the public service. This bill fully implements the 2000 Lisbon Strategy, which recommends the introduction of a competence approach. Since 2002 the Bulgarian State Administration has taken measures, it has taken activities to define the regulatory competences necessary to carry out the expert and management positions. In 2008, they were introduced, and in 2012, the scope of competence for administrative staff was improved, with each framework containing a set of competences. In the matter of the public service, we have a relatively good, harmonised, well developed legal framework, but, of course, it must be adapted and updated according to specific requirements. At present, the amendments proposed by the Council of Ministers correspond to two main planning documents "The Strategy for the Development of the State Administration 2014-2020 and, respectively, the roadmap for its implementation, which plan documents and mainly the Road map, have been drawn up on the recommendation of the European Commission. Four are the key issues proposed in this Draft Law of the Council of Ministers. The first group concerns selection and everything related to selection. The previous speaker clarified and specified the two-phase, two-stage conduct of competition selection procedures. However, this also improves the quality requirements for selection, including for internal selection. In part of the previous speech, the speaker also pointed out some of the hypotheses in which we have limited appointments without competition. This is where the two main assumptions of substitution and part-time are regulated. The third main group of amendments concerns development of mobility and the fourth group is the introduction of new mechanisms to ensure continuity for developing flexible working conditions, to attract and retain in the administration of qualified young people. I will try very briefly to present some of the aspects that concern these four groups of changes. With regard to selection, we have in principle a new solution, as I have already said, and this is about two-stage, two-phase competition. The aim of the proposed changes is to ensure objectivity and transparency in the conduct of competition procedures and the appointment of a public service only to employees who have proven to have the necessary competences to work in the public administration and to carry out the specific job. The centralized first stage is art. 10d, para. 1-5 of the Bill will be organised and provided logistically by the Institute of Public Administration and will be conducted through the implementation of professionally developed instruments.. tests to assess common competences, as well as tests to establish basic common knowledge necessary to occupy a public service. These are knowledge related to the structure and structure of the administration; organization of work in the administration; status of employees. The tests are intended to consist of separate modules, some of which will be mandatory for all, and other candidates will be asked further questions if they wish to apply for a particular leadership position. That is, even in the centralized competition there is differentiation and there are also degrees of intensity. An opportunity will be created for candidates to appear in different locations in the country's territory with strict compliance with the Single Rules for Conducting Competitions. The results of the successfully tested tests will be valid for a period of three years from the date of the announcement, thus creating a database of candidates with a proven level of common competence and knowledge in the work of the public administration. As Mr. Ilija Iliev pointed out in the previous speech, we are currently debating the Bill at first reading. Between first and second readings, we will have the opportunity to propose specific amendments. With respect to each of the deadlines, it is likely that a debate could be held and that adjustments could be proposed, respectively, with a view to logic or appropriateness. It makes sense in the Council of Ministers' proposal for this three-year term, in the sense that if, for three years, although the applicant has won and been ranked in the centralized competition, he does not take part in a specific position, it is possible to dequalify to some extent. Of course, the other logic is possible as the centralised competition concerns a common competence of the applicant, i.e. these are basic knowledge and skills, it is possible to think that the loss of these knowledge and skills is probably relevant and a longer period of time. Here I will make a deviation in relation to the analysis of Mr. Iliya Iliev in the previous speech. Yes, the time limits laid down in the Bill aim to engage the future civil servant's attitude. In one case you called it fear, I would kind of repeat your conclusion: yes, there must be fear of failure. There must be discipline. The state service is the most disciplined and disciplined public attitude and it requires a very strong and serious commitment from the public official. Therefore, civil servants must meet the time limits, including if they have taken on a scholarship from the State, should have the necessary responsibility and commitment to be fit to fulfil the pre-deployment obligation, for which they have received State support accordingly and are obliged to meet the expectations of the state authorities, institutions and administration that this training will result in a qualitative implementation of the state service. Yes, indeed, and in this case it is possible to comment on deadlines. Yes, if, on the second and a half year, such an insurmountable problem arises in the performance of the service that the civil servant leaves, that is, he cannot meet the three-year term, here I would probably think in the following direction: to search for the reason and reason. That is, if this is a unilateral decision of the scholarshipee, he deserves a certain penalty. However, if it comes to this result either innocently by the civil servant or by the collaborator, let us say, the civil servant and his direct supervisor, i.e. gives rise to an opportunity to effectively and successfully execute the public service, then this penalty is not fair. I agree with Mr. Iliev that, indeed, we will then impose excessive sanctions on the civil servant of the Scholar and at the very last stage of the term. I would like to draw attention to another new one, which is interesting in the centralized first stage, which is the application of psychometric tests. This is a practice that is used in many of the Member States of the European Union and is a manifestation of the desire to apply objective instruments to assess competences. Such tests through a centralised procedure shall also be implemented by the European Staff Selection Office, which shall select staff for the European Commission and for all European institutions. In this I see a modern way to actually make an initial assessment of the overall fitness and opportunity of a candidate to be a good civil servant. In my opinion, it is original and specific in line with the relationship between the first stage and, respectively, the second competition specialist, which already aims to determine the level of specific competence and professional business qualities of candidates to take up a specific position in a specific administration. The key prerequisite for admission is, of course, that the candidate has successfully presented himself in the first stage of the centralized competition. In the second stage, the competition committee shall assess the professional and business qualities of the candidates by conducting the contest in the announced manner: test, practical examination and others, including a mandatory interview, where information on the presentation of the candidate at the centralised stage can be used. It is an interesting question which Mr. Iliev put in the previous speech regarding the appeal rate at this special stage. Indeed, the appeal is limited here to the above administrative authority. Legally, it must be refined and I believe that we will do so in second reading...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I therefore commit myself to having a special debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs on the issue of appeal. The second group of amendments concern issues which have been discussed in part of the previous bills. Here, colleagues from the Reform Bloc had proposals in this direction - limiting and excluding the possibility of entering the state administration through the part-time substitution techniques. I don't want to repeat the debates on the previous bills, yes, this is basically a situation. We need to establish the principle, we need to limit the possibilities of speculation or manipulation with these methods, that is, we need to seek out such criteria that are really objective and prove in an indisputable way the need to apply this extraordinary method. I'll repeat the other thesis. Indeed, in the administration there are cases where it is essential and such needs arise for a temporary appointment of a replacement civil servant, an employee to replace a civil servant or one job to be done in a limited time. The previous speaker commented on lower time limits and, respectively, lowering the lower limit from four to two hours. In principle, it also makes sense in this proposal by Mr. Iliev, but the point is this and that is why I think the lower limit is four hours. After all, a state is destined for a government office. This state requires a certain fullness in performing the function. If one state throws it away, rudely speaking, to four people, then it becomes a very differentiated environment from different performers. Moreover, in order to have a state, there must be an objective need for this work, this function to be performed. If it is for two hours, it may not be appropriate and it would not be acceptable to separate a state in two hours. It's common in the tradition so far, as far as we have some tradition in half-hours, so I'm guessing this limit has been given for four hours. Again, I say, of course, between first and second readings, different proposals could be made. Very interesting are the proposals regarding mobility and continuity. In practice, I've experienced, I've just had the need to secure the surrender and acceptance of a job by an employee who retires from a young employee who starts training, stepping in the performance of the job. I fully support the logic of these proposals, they have a lot of sense, a lot of meaning and a lot of appropriateness. Since I've talked too long, I'm gonna limit myself here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Before I give you the floor for lines, allow me, honourable Members, to inform you that guests of the balcony are students of the 1st class of the Primary School. Valentine's Day. Cyril and Methodius in the city of Troyan. [[Applause.]] The children impressed the public of the city, and I suppose they will impress you with the fact that, within their initiative, children with oncohematological diseases raised and donated funds for their peers from a daily center to the Association. [[Applause. Revelations: "Bravo! "]] You have the floor for lines. Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my colleague Kirilov for so comprehensively, in detail and professionally speaking in his style, of course, he commented in general both the motives and my speech. Colleague Kirilov, I really agree with what you said that there should be respect and respect for the laws, for the legality of civil servants, and especially in the case of interns, and to respect the deadlines. Of course, they did, but in the end, for example, if during those two years, while they were interns there, they were working, they were doing something, they were traveling in the morning, they were getting up at a certain hour, they were spending energy, they were spending travel expenses, they were putting in efforts, they were learning and during that time, that's okay, that's okay, that's fine, but in the end, if they weren't interns there, they could go somewhere else and make 5 levs again, so that's some energy, that's some expense that's respectable. After all, over these two years, putting all this effort and work there, we put pressure on it and put a clamp on it, then three years of mandatory work, I think that this, again I will say, is creating a preliminary fear and worry that it will not be able to think about anything else or develop within these three years. Imagine, for example, that there is a proposal from some big global company, or that it is approved in some area, that it is very good and so on. He'd be mostly worried about the fact that he has to return the entire scholarship he took in those years. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I think it is good to think here, also on the other points, of course, but ultimately the Law works in the general interest of statehood and we need to make it as transparent and accessible to the best personnel of Bulgaria as I am sure that we have and with more transparency we will attract the better personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u41	Thank you, dear Mr. Iliev. Are there any other lines? [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Do you have a line, Mr. Bayraktarov? I've given the floor for lines. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Kirilov, I wanted to draw your attention to what you mentioned about the proposal of the Reformation bloc and, in particular, the movement of the Bulgarian citizens. First of all, you know that we submitted these proposals a year ago - March. We've been waiting for over a year for something to happen to them. Now through the opportunity that gives art. 50 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, somehow again we try to avoid them. If they are not included between readings, we will still offer them again. I think it's very important to try to close the loopholes that give art. Article 15 16a. At the moment we say: the competitive beginning is the most important one, we put it in the front, but as a one-way mare we give some trampolines through different possibilities and members to skip this competition start, which for me is not a good opportunity, I mean, it's not a good practice. Article 15, you know, there currently can by replacing a pregnant employee for example, to appoint a comfortable person to a post and then be promoted. In our proposals, it is the completely opposite.. we want to close this possibility................................................................................................. This is our proposal that we are giving, and we hope it will be discussed, because the idea is to close loopholes, not open new ones. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16a, where we have an amendment for part-time appointments, we have two concrete proposals that are also key to me. One is a ban on the appointment of part-time management. I think that's pretty resonant. If someone's going to replace him, we can't suddenly appoint him director of the department. For the management positions, let everyone go through a competition, because this is still a more responsible and more important position. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There are also no time limits in the proposal for the appointment of part-time, which is in our proposal, which we have made from the movement of citizens. I think there should be time limits there. When someone is incomplete, it should be known for what period of time it is, and not actually this thing to become a permanent long-acting contract. Sorry about the weather. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u43	It's okay, you'll have the opportunity to further your thesis within the framework of the speech. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I thank you for the two lines that were made in connection with my speech. Regarding Mr. Iliev's reply, I would like to clarify the following: the fellowship officer during the time during which he worked receives a wage, that is, he does not work just like that, how can I say, only because he had received a scholarship free of charge or with a corresponding lower remuneration. He gets paid for this effort, which is his reward. From the logic of your arguments I remain with the following conviction: perhaps justice is somewhere in the middle. That is, if we are talking about non-compliance within the residual period, this should probably mean certain proportionality. Roughly speaking, if I don't fulfill my duty in the last one sixth of the term, do I have to return the entire scholarship? Yeah, it makes sense, for example, to think in the direction of default is one sixth, it has to return one sixth of the scholarship, let's say. That makes sense, but to that logic we have to add the penalty, because the point of the penalty is to have restraint, to have discipline. That is, in your order of thought, I would suggest the following: not to be a sixth return from the scholarship, but, for example, to be two sixths, that is, one third, in order to have and respectively a guarantee, to have a penal disciplinary part in relation to the failure of the civil servant. Because this decision, if it is unilateral, it leads to a deficit, leads to a deficit of competence, a deficit of personnel resources to perform the work. So the state was counting on the fact that after training, she paid for one colleague's training for five years, he worked for another two years, so in those seven years the state knew that he was preparing a frame for a particular place. That is, there must be stability in these relations, and the promise must be kept. Regarding the reply of colleague Nastimir Ananiev. I explained the relationship between the five bills. This bill we have been waiting for, Mr. Ananiev, because this is the Law of the Council of Ministers. Meanwhile, you can see we've been discussing and we've been able to discuss the other four bills. I hope we find a reasonable balance between your views and suggestions under art. Article 15 16a and those who have been imported and proposed by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. For speech there is the popular representative Dimitar Bajraktarov, after him the national representative Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's appropriate at the very beginning to say that the Patriot Front Group will support this bill. I would say that he is even late because he is dealing with some extremely important issues that have been unsolved over the years. I will try to be shorter, as some of the essential things have been said by my colleague Kirilov and my colleague Nastimir Ananiev in a reply to him. I strongly agree with the opinion of my colleague Nastimir Ananiev that contracts with reduced working hours should still have some limitation period and not be endless. However, from another point of view, purely administratively, I cannot disagree with the opinion of my colleague Kirilov, because these figures are defined in the so-called State Schedule. It is now very important to note that we are talking about employees. Employees! I address my colleague Iliev well-meaningly. Colleague Iliev, it is not the issue to be disciplined measures. First of all, these are correctness measures, and when the measure for withdrawal of a scholarship is applied due to incorrect behaviour, I stress, it is appropriate to take into account that for years the state has been assisting with tens of millions of stipends who, at the time they are studied, acquire the relevant qualification, experience, expertise, as is said by kind, by pleasure, already acquired this qualification, this expertise, go and begin to serve, naturally, for higher remuneration of other countries, especially in Europe. But the Bulgarian taxpayer has invested in these employees through the Bulgarian state. They should indeed recover these scholarships, even with interest, as provided for in the Law. Otherwise, they have every right to take credit, support themselves and then as free citizens, if they decide to go their own way. This is the right decision, which, by the way, has older colleagues, know that this practice existed before 1989. We should strive to keep these employees, I repeat, employees, they serve the Bulgarian taxpayer. It is right to be well-trained, highly qualified and, most importantly, to possess these moral values as a civil servant. With regard to your, not yet a proposal, but expressed opinion on reducing working hours from four hours to two hours. If these people were not employees, I can immediately point to you the specific article and text in the Labour Code, but I repeat that this is about civil servants, not seasonal workers. If you have forgotten, this National Assembly adopted art. 114a of the Labour Code, in which we gave such people the opportunity to work with day-to-day contracts. In Bulgaria, part-time hours have not yet been introduced, perhaps one day will happen and there is nothing wrong with being introduced, but the civil servant, when hired on a four-hour working day, is a matter of organizing his time to be charged as well as possible, to be as responsible as possible and to perform the relevant administrative service for which he is employed. It's a matter of organization. It is not a question that he will be called in two hours, it will be used inefficiently. Here is already the role through the internal rules for the organisation of the respective public service and so on, in which they are to be maximum, effective and well used. So, in this direction, the reduction of one, two, three hours has already taken place contrary to legislation, because at two hours, if I have to go into the slums of the Social Security Code, you cannot lead it for social security, as there is no such form provided for in the Social Security Code under a 4-hour day to be internship. Surely such changes can be made, but I personally would not engage in this heavy system so radically at this stage to be introduced until at least part-time hours were introduced. So the bill is not bad, naturally, there are no ideal bills, but it is in the right direction and deserves to be supported by the first vote by the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Bajraktarov, about the 4-hour working day, proposed that the minimum limit should be dropped to 2 hours. The idea comes from the fact that we're all witnesses and we know that there's a lot of people hanging around in public administration who have something to do all day for a day or two and sitting around all day. I've witnessed this many times. Let us be a little more modern and a little more dynamic in this regard, because the great state administration is a heavy burden when it does not work effectively. If we set a minimum limit of 2 hours, first of all we save money, we save the state's budget. And as for what you said, that making young people work for the state was a practice before 1989, that seems a bit totalitarian to me. Why not allow young people and those poor people who are yet to flourish in their careers to think freely? Can you force a man to work by force? How is it better to make him work by force or by love and by desire? Of course the second one. And by limiting it, by tightening it in this noose for three years, he has no right to move from there, otherwise he has to return the money if he sits there by force and doesn't work effectively, what's the point of this whole thing? So that's what it creates, I'll say again, a preliminary psychological fear in interns that if it's not three years there, it should return the money. And he says, "I'd better stay there, I'll drink my coffee all day, but I'll never get my money back." And what we do is we pay him a salary at the same time and it is not effective in his service, and it cannot develop as a frame, no one can say that it can be some young person who will glorify Bulgaria in some area after a time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Iliev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Iliev, I understand that this matter is difficult for you to understand, but still, it's not my problem, it's yours. First of all, no one's forcing anyone. That's one. Secondly, if you see the hanging officials from the state administration, be so good now two state budgets are being adopted, to introduce your proposals for a reduction of states, for example, in certain areas of the state administration. And thirdly, if you were listening carefully, I explicitly told you that everyone is free to make their choice, with one small detail, however: the Bulgarian taxpayer cannot pay the scholarships of this fellow and then he, because he is taught with the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer, even one thanks not to tell them and go to work in some foreign administration of a foreign state. First it is incorrect, second it is incorrect against the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian taxpayer. It's the choice of the respective scholarship student. And if he wants to go, he can get his money back with interest, and he's free to go his own way. If he doesn't want to get a scholarship, there are different forms of funding. Fortunately, the Bulgarian banking system also offers such. If you are not familiar, you can see how developed countries act in this direction. I can give you a few examples of how to approach these cases in Britain. And it's not about three years! There are already contracts for 10 years ahead of you for having taken the scholarship to be trained, to become a specialist, and then to fulfill your duties. That's the truth, and we need to learn. And as for the reduction in working hours, I think I explained it clearly enough. If he takes the matter of Deputy Minister Donev, I think he will also confirm what I am telling you. There's no normal guy who goes to work and then doesn't have to take that time for an internship. That's the problem. But with us in Bulgaria, it can be resolved when we introduce part-time working hours. But I don't think that's gonna happen very soon, even though I want it, too. I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Are there any other people who would like to speak to us so that we can focus on the vote? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u52	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In general, we in the Reformation Block will support the bill, but we have a lot of proposals and adjustments. Some of them already said them in the line I made to Mr. Kirilov. I'm glad he said we'd find a way to fix the situation in those members who are bothering us, especially Art. 15 and 16a. There should, of course, be options to be used exceptionally, but not as a basic practice. At the moment in the administration, these members are used as a basic practice of appointment and this must be stopped. I'm giving her another example of the new para. 4 in art. 10. There is a limit to the competition start in the event of an increase. At the moment, if the bill is adopted, the competition start completely disappears when the leaders of the relevant administrations are raised and they will be able to be promoted without any criteria. The only thing that will be done is a common fitness test, which, however, notice, will not be evaluated. You can positively pass it with the lowest result and thus take up a leadership position that is not right for me. Another member we have concerns about is related to art. 62, which gives the opportunity, especially para. 1, t. Four, state officials present themselves to the court. There's no problem in that, let them be able to appear, but it doesn't say anywhere that this should happen only after permission of the assignment body! I think this needs to be corrected because it turns out that the moment you decide to be an expert, you go, you do it, you take leave, and your superiors have to comply with this thing, so this proposal needs to be agreed with the hierarchy. The other comment I have is more technical. We're talking about replacing the term, that's in art. 71c "send" to the institutions of the European Union with a request. It is more technical, of course, and in my opinion, the replacement itself is technically inaccurate because there is a clash with the Labour Code and there the text itself needs to be cleared. We of the Reformation bloc will certainly submit proposals at least those that have been aged for one year, unless they are united between readings, I am not sure exactly what the procedure is, but if the proposals that have been sitting since March last year are not united between readings, we will also propose them to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. For some of the issues raised, the word asked Deputy Minister Galab Donev. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, submitted by the Council of Ministers, pursues several objectives.. improving the objectivity and transparency of the selection of civil servants in their appointment and in the movement of different positions in the state administration. The second objective is to stop abuse of legal opportunities created for special cases, but to circumvent the competition. This is the already debated article. Article 15 16a from the current Civil Service Act. The next third objective is to ensure an open and transparent procedure for the transition of a public service to another administration through constant mobility. The use of an information portal is also introduced here so that it is accessible and clear to all civil servants who are interested and willing to go to another administration, to be informed about the requirements and the conditions under which this mobility is carried out. In addition, when moving to another administration, the staff member shall be appointed only if he has successfully passed a test and if he is first in charge. They cannot pass into another administration employees appointed on part-time what the debates about the two problematic articles in the Law were about, which are currently a loophole and which can be entered into the state administration without a competition. The bill also provides that under art. 15, if an employee is appointed to replace a long-standing civil servant, then if he passes for a permanent post in the state administration, the centralised contest must be passed, i.e. the test carried out by the Institute of Public Administration, then he must also pass the specialized test, which is conducted by the administration itself, where he applies for the reassignment of a permanent position. In addition, when passing on to such a position, it is a condition that he has passed a probationary period under the Law on the Civil Service Officer and obtained an assessment of the performance meets the requirements and is conditional on that civil servant being reassigned to another permanent post. I mean, the loophole that currently exists through art. 15 The replacement appointment, after which to be reassigned to another permanent post, is now closed. The same situation with the Bill is proposed to be under art. 16a, which currently enables part-time appointments, to circumvent the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u55	Fourth re-story!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u56	So the Bill closes these opportunities for public service employees. In addition, new moments are introduced through the scholarship positions through the shared appointment, which allows for rare specialties for which there are no suitable candidates to be employed in the public administration, to conclude a contract for scholarships, then to appoint these employees to the public administration. These are positions and specialties that are not so common, but which the public administration needs. It is also possible to reassign full-time staff to be reassigned on part-time. This will enable young mothers who return to work to be able to enjoy more flexible working hours in view of the commitments they have in parental care for children. It also enables a civil servant to be appointed part-time in two administrations, as the public administration does not only concern the central administration and civil servants have in both municipalities and regional administrations. This opportunity for a civil servant to be appointed to two administrations is mainly supported by small municipalities where, for example, a chief engineer, this position can be shared by one employee in two administrations. It is also possible, with the consent of the civil servant and for remuneration, of course, to be entrusted with additional obligations in relation to the management and implementation of projects. This is a change that is also related to the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds. The debate also covered the possibility of sharing the implementation of certain key positions with a view to ensuring continuity. What could at the moment be difficult to accomplish because the state number in the public administration is strictly defined and when an employee retires, it is difficult to appoint another employee, who the retireer can train, to pass on his knowledge and experience, so that the transition from the entry of the young employee into the public administration and fulfillment of the commitments he has and the responsibilities he has to bear is a new opportunity that is given when entering the state administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u57	Dear Deputy Minister, you have one more minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm almost done. This is very briefly the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Civil Serviceman submitted by the Council of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u59	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Although it seems formally that I have no reason to make this proposal in the manner of conduct, I would like to call on you when there is an obvious understatement of the audience: a four-fold re-speech of the same text with one single goal. 50, para. 3, in order not to get to the awkward point three, where you would understand who-how you vote and use the primo to speak, to repeat, my suggestion in the manner of conducting is to respect the audience and not resort to this flat essay the same thing to repeat so many times. It is clear that the time is up, there will be a vote, there will be two negative or positive enthusiastic votes and it will not come to a third point which takes Bulgaria and the European community away from normal international relations and dialogue that only harms Europe and harms Bulgaria. But since you cannot openly state your conduct under this Law, you have been stalling for two hours a question that is clear and you have also included the Deputy Minister in this eating of parliamentary time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u61	Mr. Bojinov, you see a conspiracy that doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u62	Not a conspiracy, but there's a deal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u63	There was nothing like that. We followed the dialogue very carefully. If you were here, too, you'd see there was nothing like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u64	Yeah, four times we heard the same text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u65	There was a very thorough dialogue going on. Questions were raised by the speakers to whom the Deputy Minister answered. Moreover, the Council of Ministers did not take advantage of their right to an opinion on an importer. I understand your weakness for conspiracy, but I assure you there is absolutely no conspiracy in this case. In addition, the subparagraph of Article 3 (1) (b) shall be replaced by the following: 50 is eight, not three. We've closed the debate. Let's move on to the vote. In order to be able to participate before the break and on the next point and to make sure that there is no conspiracy, I call you to a more energetic vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service, No 602-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 March 2016. Please, honourable Members, vote. They voted 100 MPs: 79, none against, abstention 21. The bill was passed in the first vote. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since MPs were still coming in during the vote, I ask for a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u68	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u69	Time is ours.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u70	Revoting procedure. They voted 99 MPs: 80, none, abstention 19. The bill was passed in the first vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION ON THE PRESENTATION OF INTERPARLAMENTARY DIALOGUE AND COOPERATION BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION. Importers are Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, in order to save the accusations that time has been deliberately slow in order not to have time for a real discussion on this point, I propose that the work of the National Assembly continue during the planned rest period, i.e. to save ourselves the rest so that we can run out of this point. I assume that there will not be many speeches, but in order to be able to read, apart from the motives, the views of the committees concerned, to speak out the parliamentary groups and to vote, I think we can afford not to take the day off as the first day of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u72	I am not convinced that your proposal is legitimate, as a recess is requested by a parliamentary group or chairman of the sitting. There is no way I can deprive one of the parliamentary groups of a break. You know, after the so-called Blitz control under art. 104, if there's time left, we'll move on to this point. Then, after parliamentary control, you can do the appropriate procedure. I don't need to tell you what it is. You've got plenty of good lawyers in the group. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u73	Reverse procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u74	There is no reverse procedure because I will not put this procedure to the vote. It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, they have been making accusations here earlier that the MPs were active, speaking. There's blitz control, if it was delayed, we'd still be hearing accusations that it was delayed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u76	Please to me in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u77	In the manner of conducting: call on your colleagues not to ask their questions about the blitz control, so that we can then look at the point. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u78	Are there any other procedures? The Foreign Policy Committee report will introduce us to the people's representative Desislava Atanasova. Hurry up, 'cause they're gonna blame us for slowing down on purpose. Please invite the project importers into the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u79	"COMMODITY" on a draft decision on the need to promote interparliamentary dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the Pussy Federation, No 554-02-102, submitted by Mikhail Raykov Mikov and a group of MPs on 8 December 2015. At a regular meeting held on 13 January 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the draft decision on the need to promote interparliamentary dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the Pussy Federation, submitted by Mikhail Raykov Mikov and a group of MPs. The reasons for the draft decision were presented by the MP from the Bulgarian National Assembly. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs Valentin Poryazov presented the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the draft decision. Bulgaria shall comply with and conduct its foreign policy in accordance with the common foreign and security policy of the European Union. In relation to the violation of the territorial integrity of Ukraine, as well as the illegal annexation of Crimea and Sevastopol in 2014, targeted restrictive measures were introduced within the EU, including the freezing of assets and the prohibition of access to the territory of the Union of persons and organisations associated with the conflict in Ukraine (target sanctions). Their duration is bound by the overall implementation by Russia of the Minsk arrangements. The decision to impose the measures was taken unanimously. By their legal nature, acts imposing sanctions on the EU shall be binding on the Member States. Council Decision 2014/145/CFSP concerning restrictive measures in respect of actions undermining or threatening the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine is subject to a derogation from the prohibition of access to the territory of the European Union of natural persons listed, where a Member State is bound by an obligation under international law, namely: - as the host country of an international intergovernmental organisation; - as the host country of an international conference convened by or under its auspices; - under a multilateral agreement granting privileges and immunities; - under the 1929 Reconciliation Treaty. (Lateran Treaty) concluded by the Holy See and Italy. The abovementioned derogation shall also apply where a Member State is a host country of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). Member States may grant exemptions from restrictive measures where travel is intended to participate in intergovernmental meetings and meetings held with the support of the EU or hosted by the EU or a Member State which has taken over the OSCE Presidency and which conducts a political dialogue directly promoting the political objectives of restrictive measures, including support for the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine. On the basis of the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the debate held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 4 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. On behalf of the importers, who will present the Project? Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u81	Thank you, Madam President. I am sure that the fact that you have come to Parliament is because of the important point that is coming, not because of something else.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u82	I've been in Parliament all day, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u83	I am saying that you are leading the meeting and I believe that this will be a positive sign to your parliamentary group. I am trying to be polite, I do not know if I succeed, but I hope that the way in which the majority of parliament approaches this topic will not affect the long-term attitude towards the Bulgarian National Assembly, because, after all, we may vote, have any positions, but I do not see what is bothering you from a real discussion on a topic that is particularly up-to-date and on which there is an increasing understanding in both the European countries and in the European Parliament. We, on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, offer something very small, which, however, is an important political sign. We want to propose to the Bulgarian National Assembly to take a position in support of parliamentaryism, in support of parliamentary dialogue, to ask the Bulgarian Government to propose appropriate measures to its partners in the European Union, so that the parliamentarians from the Russian Federation and, respectively, the European parliamentarians from both the European Parliament and the member states, who have, in the meantime, entered into the negative lists of the Russian Federation to be taken from these lists reciprocally, mutually...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u84	Mr. Vigenin, I'm sorry, I'm just interrupting you for a second. You'll continue. Dear colleagues, a guest of the National Assembly today is the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of Romania Valeriu Zgonya and a parliamentary delegation led by him. Our Romanian colleagues are on a one-day official visit to our country. Please welcome them to the building of the Bulgarian Parliament. [[All rise and greet guests with applause.]] Just moments ago, Mr Zgonya and I signed a Memorandum of Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Chamber of Deputies of Romania, which provides for strengthening and deepening parliamentary relations at all levels. Let us wish the Romanian delegation a successful and fruitful next meeting in Bulgaria! [[Applause.]] I'm sorry again, Mr. Vigenin. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u85	Thank you. I accept this interruption only because of my respect for the Romanian delegation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u86	And in connection with their program.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u87	Otherwise, I believe that such an interruption, when a point is presented, is unacceptable, Madam President, and we must treat the parliamentary group with respect and with personal regard to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u88	I'll take an act of your opinion, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u89	I would like to emphasise that there is, I mentioned it last week, some tactical and strategic mistakes that the European Union made in its relations with the Russian Federation. One of these mistakes is the fact that Russian parliamentarians were included in the negative lists, which really hampered interparliamentary dialogue, and in fact parliamentary diplomacy at such tense moments can play the role of catalyst for the normalization of relations, because it is more free, is not bound by the strict positions of governments and the ministries of foreign affairs respectively. Promoting this dialogue can really contribute to the formation of joint positions, efforts on major European and global issues such as the fight against terrorism. We, when we tabled our proposal, did not assume that events will happen in Brussels, but our motives begin with the sentence that BSP is following with particular concern the growth of terrorist threats to the European Union, whose inspiring and major performer are associated with the so-called Islamic State. The disabling effect that all these events have can only be resolved in a dialogue of global forces that have the capacity to combat these phenomena. The continuing penalty, especially in its part, with regard to the possibility of parliamentarians to travel to the European Union and, respectively, to the Russian Federation, makes this dialogue difficult. I will not dwell in particular details, but I would like to emphasise that it is a matter of respect for Parliament itself and, at all, parliamentaryism in Europe that it is not allowed in the future, as we propose in our decisions, representatives of the executive power, in fact, to restrict parliamentary contacts. Because, after all, the executive power stems from the decisions of the parliaments, the parliaments are above it, and such sanctions should not be allowed in the future. That is why our proposal is very clear, and I will still read it, so that people who are listening to it are aware: the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs can present to the European Council and, respectively, to the Council, the External Affairs of the European Union, a reasoned proposal to remove all parliamentarians from the EU's sentencing lists and negotiate simultaneous and reciprocal action by the Russian Federation. I call on you, indeed, for the sake of our Parliament's self-respect for parliamentaryism and Bulgaria's experience in this case to play a positive role, to take an important first step, to adopt this decision and in a joint dialogue with the government to find the way in which this decision is to be implemented in practice. I assure you that support in this direction will be found in a number of parliaments of Member States of the European Union. In addition, there is also a similar decision in this direction for the Conference of Presidents of the European Parliament, which has made an inquiry in this particular direction. And literally a sentence about the reasons that were presented by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Yes, of course, exceptions are envisaged, but even those provided exceptions in some cases have not been complied with. And I set an example with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. The President of the Russian delegation Narishkin last year was not allowed to enter Finland, which practically made all the work of the assembly meaningless for more than a year, as it was then necessary to mark 40 years from the adoption of the Helsinki Final Act, which actually started cooperation between the East and the West and gave opportunities for the peaceful co-existence of the two systems and, respectively, for the political changes of 1989. I am setting it as an example because overreacting with these sanctions does not help anyone and there is one attitude in the European Union to start at least from removing these sanctions against parliamentarians. Thank you for your attention. I wish the parliament wisdom. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. This was an importer's opinion. The time is 11.39 am giving a break until 12:00, which will allow the other eight importers on the Project for a decision to take their seats afterwards so that they can participate fully in the debate. We continue with parliamentary control under art. 104 at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u91	Honourable Members of Parliament, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. It's scheduled for the first Wednesday of every month. I expect every moment in this room the other deputy prime ministers. Prime Minister Mr. Borisov is committed to the Romanian parliamentary delegation, led by the President of the House of Deputies Mr. Zgonya. I recall the procedure for this Control: each parliamentary group, according to the size of the group, has the right to ask two questions to one of those subject to this type of control, these are the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers, today to the Deputy Prime Ministers. On one matter, the two rounds are entitled to ask the MPs who are not members of a parliamentary group. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB there is a question Mrs. Silvia Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u92	Dear Mr. Donchev, my question is to you. I will ask you here, before our fellow Members, if it is possible to bring a little more clarity to the new Specialized Small and Medium Business Programme, which has just begun to be explained, it is becoming necessary. I think that for a lot of people who do small and medium-sized business, it would be of great interest to get more information.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. Mr. Donchev, you have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Hubenova, I assume that your question is related to the so-called initiative for small and medium-sized enterprises, to which Bulgaria officially joined just a few weeks ago. By the way, on ratification, which is one of Parliament's competences, the procedure is already under way and very soon the issue will also be the attention of the MPs. In the extremely short time at my disposal, I can give the following clarification on the matter. The total amount of funds allocated to the Programme is 103 million. Euros. It's not about grant, it's about free funding, it's a financial instrument. The lott or multiplier effect is counted to be between four and six times, with all institutions involved, including the European Investment Fund, and the banks that will play the role of suppliers of last resort, being obliged to mobilise additional funds, so I expect the amount that will come out of the market to be several times greater. It is about access to funding under extremely light conditions, much more attractive than those currently on the market. In addition, it is appropriate to clarify that aside from this amount of nearly 103 million. EUR, we have another 660 or 670 million available, which will be allocated again in the form of financial instruments, but they will be managed with another mechanism, the so-called Fund of the Funds, i.e. here in Bulgaria with national capacity. When we are talking about financial instruments, that is, other than foreclosure funding, let us not forget that the so-called recycled funds are also available on the market, by They're also going on the market this year. Even our most frightening calculations show that only within 2016 no less than 1 billion will be on the market and will be available to Bulgarian companies. In addition to all our efforts, all schemes, where the beneficiaries are both municipalities and small and medium-sized enterprises, to be detailed, at the moment all employees of information and publicity, as well as information centres, are given instructions and specific instructions on how to promote technical details at the level, to explain to everyone concerned what specific access to these financial instruments is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u95	A line, Mrs. Hubenova? You won't use it. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria is next. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! And my question will be to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. Of course, not so much for the bright future that awaits us, Mr. Donchev, about the use of operational programs, but unfortunately, a rather negative experience that we have in the past. I would like you to answer and tell us about the information we have about a financial correction within about 250 million. EUR imposed by the certifying authority under the Rural Development Programme, is the audit report on whose basis this financial correction is imposed final, how long are we talking about, and what is the basis for which this financial adjustment has been imposed on our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u97	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u98	I'll be very brief. I have no information on a financial correction imposed on such ominous scale under the Rural Development Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u99	Line, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u100	Mr. Donchev, what I hear is extremely disturbing. If the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for the coordination and management of operational programmes in the government does not have this type of information and does not give that type of information to the National Assembly, I think we have a very difficult problem. If the financial correction is not in the amount I am talking about, at the very least it would be correct to tell the people's representation what the amount is on this correction. I would like to receive information, as you know that the certifying authority is currently checking also the costs incurred in October 2014 until 15 October 2015, and the costs incurred after 16 October 2015 by the end of 31 December 2015. To tell you, they are somewhere within a billion and a half. It is good to know what measures are being taken in this matter. The most important thing is how this will ultimately affect the state budget. Of course, from now on, the question is: who will be responsible if these financial corrections are imposed? I understand the inconvenience you have, because the image that was built on this government has been releasing to you, and we have been stopped, it will soon be destroyed, given the hundreds of millions of financial corrections that our country will have to pay in all the programmes, but I think the National Assembly deserves at least one more correct and more accurate response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u101	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u102	I have never refused to the honourable Members any information relating to payments, including financial projections, either in this House or in the Commission. On the contrary, I claim that we have an extremely good dialogue with everyone interested in the subject. In this sense, when, God forbid, there is such written information with me, I undertake to introduce you to her, but to comment on fears or rumors, especially in plenary, does not suit me, and it does not suit you as an audience. On the occasion of a slightly wider comment on financial corrections. Only according to the operational programmes, the financial corrections to date are certainly 370 In addition, the vast majority of them, perhaps 290 or 300 million, imposed in 2014. Who should be responsible? In principle, a financial correction... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u103	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u104	Dear colleagues, a debate is held in another format, not with lines from the Chamber. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Financial correction is required due to irregularities or restrictive conditions under the procedure of the Public Procurement Act. The other category of penalties, so to speak, does not verify expenditure. It is necessary when there is a defect in the quality of execution, or what should have been implemented under the project has not been delivered. Whose responsibility is it? First of all, the one he's assigning. Secondly, knowing both the old and the new regulation, in each of the situations the relevant managing authority is also responsible because it has the sovereign right to exercise control in any tact before and after a contract is concluded and during the performance of the contract. In this sense, responsibility is divided, I don't know at what rate, the one who signed the contract, and the one who was supposed to control it. The issue of financial corrections is not closed because many of the beneficiaries, especially those that were corrected in 2014, are suing the State. Knowing the adjustment mechanism then, I expect many cases to end with a result favourable to beneficiaries, and this will have an effect on the state budget. But there is another country to debate about how financial corrections are used. Whether they are used as they were designed in 2010. As a fine surgical instrument [[the President signals that time has run out]] which is intended to cut the problem, or are used as another tool, which sometimes cut limbs as it was in 2014?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u105	There is a question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Anastasov will ask the first question on behalf of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, allow me, before I get to the point, to greet young people upstairs on the right balcony, namely the students from the three Islamic schools from across the country. [[Applause from DPS.]] Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, the question of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is related to the statements of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov before one of the national televisions, namely: the policy and official position of the government are the claims that the era of multiculturalism in Europe is over and Europe must forget the passive value tolerance and recognize the value of respect as a substitute for tolerance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u107	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u108	I'm sure you can talk about what Minister Mitov said, personally with him, he would never refuse that. I answer to certain policies that relate to foreign affairs, and what he has shared is not a policy issue. It is a matter of his opinion, of course, sufficiently responsible as Minister of Foreign Affairs, with which he tries to find the intersection between security and liberalism. We know there are such problems everywhere in Europe. Unfortunately, we live in such a time that we often have to make choices. I'll give you an example that, I think, is well known here at all. The so-called..... which are collected by passengers from the airlines...................... is this something to be distributed, including behind the Ocean, or do we keep our liberal understanding of the personal sphere and remain our personal data? You know that this is a problem and a very big dispute in the European Parliament, and it ended...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u109	Get into the field of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u110	Colleagues, you have the opportunity to replicate. Please don't interrupt the Deputy Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u111	... to respect rather the ideas of the private space of European citizens. I will not go further in the interpretation of Minister Mitov's words. I can tell you that as a representative Deputy Prime Minister, I will always respect both the Council of Ministers and Bulgaria's positions before the European Council, the balance between security and liberalism. Otherwise, in this National Assembly, you will have many times reason to say what our national position is and how the balance between these two so important directions is going today. I'm sorry, but commenting on a minister's words is not politics, it doesn't seem justified.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u112	You have the opportunity to reply, Mr. Anastasov. Before that, just to remind all Members of the National Assembly, in particular you, that in the order of art. 104 oral questions are asked and deputy prime ministers and prime minister answer current questions concerning the government's common policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u113	Exactly!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u114	Not media appearances by individual cabinet members. Please take this text of the Rules into account in your reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u115	Thank you for your clarification, Madam President. It is really valuable because my question is directed precisely at the official position of the government in the Integration Strategy, at all for integration, which is regulated in a number of documents, national strategies and paperwork. And yet I ask: what is the official position of the government? Does it match Minister Mitov's statements? Here I can never afford, in the role of a sovereign MP, to express my personal opinion. When I stop being like that, I'll probably be able to express my personal opinion. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u116	A hole, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u117	Mr. MP, ladies and gentlemen, MPs! All that is written in the government's strategies, in the laws and in the Constitution, the government will, of course, abide by.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u118	Here comes a question from the Reformation Block Group. Here you go, Mr. Lilkov. Before that we should congratulate the guests from Varna who are on the right balcony of the National Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is to Minister Tomislav Donchev and is related to the so-called Targeted support programme for the North-West, Strandzha, Rhodopes and mountain and semi-mountain regions. I'm going to remind you of a few things. The target programme has been prepared since last year and in November has been submitted for discussion, as far as I know, in the Council of Ministers, i.e. the working group has ceased its work and has transmitted the Target Programme. Minister Donchev, at what stage of adoption and, of course, of future implementation is this Program? I would like to make it clear that in 2014, we did not support a group of MPs' proposal for a series of projects aimed at supporting the Northwest, precisely with the explanation that this Programme will be developed, will be specifically linked to municipal development plans, and then this seemed logical. But 2015 we didn't put any money in the support budget for the Northwest, in 2016 too, and now the question is: isn't there too much time for its adoption and implementation? Moreover, the Programme itself also provides for many legislative changes, which seem to me that we will need at least half or one year to accept them and that this Programme can really be implemented and have its effective impact. I repeat my question to you: at what stage is the targeted support programme for the Northwest, Strandzha, Rhodopes, mountain and semi-mountain regions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u120	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Mr. Donchev, we're waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u121	Dear Mr. Lilkov, I cannot properly inform you exactly where the Programme is located in the validation and acceptance procedure, but I am sure that the final text is ready. In addition to what you said, a lot of work has indeed been done not only by colleagues from the Regional Ministry, but also by regional administrations, by mayors to identify the priority projects within this Programme. The more significant issue is the sources of funding. I suppose you've been informed that they are, as it has been lately, fashionable to call themselves..................................................................................... They also include funding under the operational programmes and from the Rural Development Programme, as well as from the state budget on many lines. It is not correct to claim that there is no funds for the North-West, and within each of these financial sources, each of the operational programmes, plus the Rural Development Programme, plus the state budget, has significant funds to be allocated to the North-West. I am not talking, for example, just about the targeted subsidies and the capital expenditure given to local authorities, I am talking about all the additional forms of funding that, if you look at the decisions of the Council of Ministers, are provided almost weekly, as far as the budget allows. For me, the question is another: first, how will it work, because we are just gaining experience, the so-called "skilling system"? I suppose you know, especially when we are talking about measures for innovation and competitiveness, as well as under the Rural Development Programme, all candidates from the North West have the so-called "bonus" points, which is currently a great result. If you look at the results of the latest schematics, we have as many established candidates from the Northwest as we've never had before. In fact, a miracle happened.. The Northwest, as a region, to outrun all the other projects, which was never before, i.e. the bonus points system works. To be honest, it does not make the beneficiaries happy, the companies from all other parts of Bulgaria. I would very much like to analyse the result of the bonus points system in just a year's time and, if necessary, review it in one direction or another. And one more thing: although I am satisfied with the final version of the Programme, as a horizontal problem I still notice the identification of well-sounding projects, but without any particular focus. However much extra money we can put into Budget 2016 and Budget 2017, the truth is that we cannot finance everything, there is no way to finance everything. I miss the focus on these one or two initiatives, which are so well planned that they have a chance to reverse the negative social, economic and demographic trends that we have in this area. So this conversation isn't just about money, it's about the quality of planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u122	The line, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u123	Thank you, Madam President. That's right! Indeed, with joint efforts, I stress, with joint efforts of both MPs and ministers, and the government, the Northwest has received the bonuses we have been talking about since 2014, and they have produced results. Mr. Donchev, I am worried that key projects aimed at the Northwest, which have been announced as a priority by the government, even you, in response to questions about the railway line Vidin "Medkovets" and its modernization, said from this tribune: "Yes, this is a national priority! The Council of Ministers declared it a national priority this year, when in February it was to be applied for a refusal. This is what happens with the road Vidin.. Botevgrad. Personally, I, as a MP and some of my colleagues from Northwestern Bulgaria, say they can no longer recover and understand what stage of preparation this project is. Continuous promises about the bypass of Dimovo, the road of Rouzentsi, Montana, and so on. That is to say, there is a general ambiguity with regard to Northwestern policy. I believe that this targeted programme does give some clarity, but I am worried that its delay will lead to the fact that we can accept it, say, at the end of this year, budget not to provide it for 2017, and it will remain only a good wish. I'm going to remind you of something, as you say the Northwest is being directed. In recent years the main funds, the main support received large district cities as growth centres and as generators of development of regions and small settlements. The medium-sized municipalities, especially the peripherals, such as Vidin, Vratsa and Montana, remained out of focus and out of serious support with European funds. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The state, the government owes to the Northwest. If you ask me where you need to find funds, I will remind you of a statement by the prime minister of this tribune a month ago who said: "A hundred and fifty million we are ready to set aside right now for the Northwest. Come on, give it to me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u124	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u125	Dear Mr. Lilkov, only within this year will much more than 150 million be allocated to the Northwest for funding from different sources. Several clarifications: firstly, as a continuation of what I said. The quality of the various projects. I take it that, for example, every community and every mayor wants to have a nice park, asphalted streets and so on. This, by the way, continues to be a problem not only in the Northwest but also for many of the cities of Bulgaria. Speaking of prioritizing, I mean, sometimes it's more important not instead of, but before that, for example, to make an industrial area that gives a chance for new investments and for business, at last for jobs. It was incorrect your suggestion about the railway connection Sofia "Vidin," such as Corridor No 4 and, as you said, the refusal to apply to the Fund There's no denying it. Simply the value of the facility is two and a half billion in euros, if we have to set parameters related to a decent speed of, for example, 120 kilometers per hour, two and a half billion! Our national quota in "Kunecting Europe Fasiliti" is a little more than 400 million. In other words, given the value of the facility, we have no chance of providing it with funding from. Yes, in part, from other facilities is possible. Comment on Corridor No 4's priority cannot be, moreover, that we have a bridge built. However, the conversation is much more complicated. Including the Romanian side, our friends and partners from Romania, what do they do in terms of improving both road and railway infrastructure on the north side of the Danube? An old rule says that a piece of highway or road or rail connection is not a complete facility. When we are able to separate this resource, more likely in parts, not entirely, this must go with very strong diplomatic efforts to do the same on the north side. Otherwise, this investment will not make much sense because traffic will not be generated on the other side of the Danube. It's just an explanation, which shows that the conversation is much more complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u126	A group of the Patriotic Front will develop the first question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, my question will be to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, my question is the policy on the most vulnerable part of the Bulgarian society, namely the people with disabilities and in particular the parents who have children with disabilities. By the way, let you know that there is a very serious protest going on right now by such parents. It would be good to at least go out and pay attention to them, as they also fainted children under the hot sun, waiting for your attention. But what I want to ask you: Firstly, what is the policy of providing sufficient funds with regard to personal assistants? I'm specifying immediately so we don't get into alabalisms. Do you think it's 180 leva? are enough to allow a personal assistant to a disabled child to be able to be so after his work.. raising this child is 24 hours a day? Not to mention that in this way, this parent becomes a potential socially weak parent, as he will not even be able to receive any normal pension. Secondly, what is the policy regarding administrative service, i.e. having access to administrative services? Not far from Sofia, only in the area of the municipality and the municipal building is absolutely unavailable. There's a million dollars spent on anything, but there's just no chance of getting to the administration. I would like to hear clear and specific responses from you regarding the policy being carried out on disabled people, on mothers who raise children with disabilities, what will you do in a short time, because in a year and a half, it seems like it is being stuffed in the same place and the protest is a sign that these people's problems are not solved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u128	For an answer, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, I'm glad you're asking this question. Today there is indeed a protest of parents of children with disabilities. By the way, I expected, read in the media that they have sent letters, requests, including a desire to meet. It didn't work out in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I do not refuse, and I have always said not only to every single person who is willing, but also to their representatives that I am ready for a meeting and such meetings I hold all the time. One of the problems of some of the organizers, as far as I know them, is that they do not recognize the nationally represented organizations, refuse to be represented by another. You yourselves understand that when we talk about structures of dialogue, however, there must be representation on both sides. The problem for parents of children with disabilities is very severe. It's not a secret, and it's not new. The state allocates significant resources in different directions, which is far from what would provide a good standard for these families. Children with disabilities at the moment, who receive additional fees, you know, there children are double, for children with disabilities there are an additional 240 BGN, who receive families, there are integration supplements and so on, there are a total of 25 600. These are all children with disabilities above 50%. The requests on various occasions of the parents relate to different specific claims. Personally, I have heard from a request for every child with severe disabilities to be appointed as personal assistants, to equalize children with those of foster families, through a request for daycare centers and so on. In the social sphere, payments aimed at parents of children with disabilities are, as I mentioned, doubled child payments, an additional amount for parents with children with disabilities, integration supplements, various opportunities to buy aids and parents of children with over 90% disabilities are provided by the State for pension and health insurance. Unfortunately, so far, personal assistants can't reach all the parents. Fifteen thousand six hundred are the people who were served by personal assistants in the country. They are from different groups, including elderly people with severe disabilities, who are viewed by family members. The funds for personal assistants were provided "there was a European programme that ended, two months ago we started with a new programme. It's worth 150 million. lv.. Decisions are taken locally by municipalities and town halls in what way to distribute. The idea, then, and where the service is being performed, and at the beginning in Bulgaria, was to free the parents to have a full life, to go to work, not to interrupt their employment and for this period, during which they are working, to have a personal assistant. In any case, the Programme in Bulgaria covers more family members, whether for children or for elderly people who are personal assistants. With 150 million we have 15,600 people covered with personal assistants. This is the budget that was provided a few months ago. I am ready and have had a meeting are representative organisations, because we regularly communicate with them, people with disabilities, to open up absolutely all payments that go not only through social assistance, but also in education, in healthcare, aimed at children with severe disabilities and children with multiple disabilities. I don't mind, let's go over these payments one more time. There are claims that they are not individualized. It's absolutely right and fair. If we find them with them to reassign them in another way that will be fair, I will do it with the greatest joy. This suggests a calm, normal dialogue. We've worked it out. We'll get started. The parents of disabled children are welcome to participate in it, of course, and the MPs who are interested in this topic. As far as access to institutions is concerned. What you are putting, you know, is that at the very least, it is illegal for each public administration to provide access to people with disabilities. It is not within the capabilities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, but there is a way in which the injured people could force this region and the respective regional administration to provide these are elementary conditions, with a ramp so that the cart can be uploaded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u130	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I asked for no reason not to enter the area of alabalisms, as statistics sound good. Only I asked you specific questions that I didn't get an answer to. Fifteen thousand personal assistants. The question was, do you think it's normal with 180 leva? to live the personal assistant because he is also human and must also live and cover some normal human needs of his own? I didn't get an answer. I will give you a more specific example of the area of New Iskar in the building of the polyclinic on the fourth floor is the Agency for Social Assistance. This is now under your hat and your control. Tell me, how are these people going to get up on the fourth floor of a stairwell that has neither a ramp nor a suitable elevator for disabled people? By the way, in most of the country and municipalities, social assistance agencies are literally inaccessible to disabled people. It would be good to know that, at the very least, to carry out a check. Besides, I didn't get an answer because I'm saying again: okay, it's good that you're open, that you want to have a dialogue, but we expect results. So a year and a half not once or twice we've said these things, the results are practically about zero. The personal assistant programme is 140-150 million, and that's where it ends with these people. Naturally, what we were able to pass through the Family Aid Act for children. From then on, I do not see any concrete action from the Ministry itself as the policies of the government itself, as a state policy that really leads to a normal integration of these people. We see that for Roma integration billions are being thrown, billions are envisaged in the period 2014-2020 and for the integration of people with disabilities, whether they are children or adults, we are talking about some scarce funds. I mean... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. That is, because they are much weaker, much more difficult to organize for some action to be heard, it is much easier to be harmed. I hope you understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Here's your coat, Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I would like to call on you not to oppose different groups in the Bulgarian society. There are no billions for Roma integration. If you could show me where this number is written down, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u134	Administrative report on Roma integration 2014-2020, p. The Commission therefore The Commission therefore concludes
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u135	There aren't any... Firstly, unfortunately, we do not have budget forecasts to go by 2020. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] There's nowhere to write this thing down. So we don't have to talk like this because it's hardly interesting to have a dialogue with you in this way...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u136	Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u137	... once again I will repeat part of my answer, which I probably didn't properly formulate to understand it. These funds for personal assistants are allocated to the municipalities. The municipality decides how many hours, which of those in need who applied for it gets as a personal assistant. This decision is made by local authorities. The amount that has been separated is part of the policy that is aimed at people for children with disabilities. I've mentioned several times, I can give you the exact numbers if you're interested. People who raise children with disabilities receive increased children receive 240 BGN per month extra, some of them receive a foreign aid supplement, receive integration supplements, receive opportunities for daily centers and services in daily centers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u138	Is one hundred and eighty leva enough?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u139	By the way, your remark that there are no policies this year, we have found and continue to open children's centers for children with disabilities, which would allow parents to leave them there to receive professional help and the parent to have the opportunity for some free time or for possible inclusion in the work process. Separately through education, health care, support funds, there are also costs. The expenses are from the budget, Mr. Bayraktarov. If you have other ideas on how to reassign this budget, how to provide additional or such policies, as you say, you are welcome to discuss them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u140	They are legislatively determined our ideas.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u141	We have regular contact both within the National Council for the Integration of Disabled People, with NGOs and with everyone who has called us. I travel a lot in the country myself, I meet myself, including in social services and in centers with such people. What we have with the budget with an increase this year and next, we are trying to do so. Once again, I agree with you, especially in severe cases, it is very difficult to raise such a child. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This requires extremely much emotional, financial, and physical effort from parents. I don't think we'll ever be able to provide that comfort for the parents, but I agree with you that we should be looking for new opportunities. You're welcome with ideas if you have any in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u142	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u143	The President of the Lord, I take the procedure in the manner of conduct, as it is unacceptable to allow a deputy prime minister of this high tribune to say false things and to say that a representative of the people is almost unaware of what he is saying. I would recommend to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister to read the Administrative Report on Roma Integration 29 and check how many billion are planned for Roma integration in the 2014-2020 programming period, and then pronounce, rather than tell the truths of this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u144	There should be no numbers in the blitz control, but only a common policy. From the Bulgarian Democratic Center "Welcome." Mr. Rosen Petrov, you have the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Mrs. Bachvarova: at what stage of preparation is the so-called Anti-Roristic Law and basically what will be the role of the Ministry of Interior in it, what role is it assigned?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u147	Dear Mr. Glauchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Petrov, yesterday we have a draft text on the Anti-Terrorism Act, its final discussion is coming. The working group included representatives of the prosecution, of the DANS, of the Ministry of Interior, of the Ministry of Justice. It mainly develops all necessary actions and procedures that the Ministry of Interior will conduct and coordinate in cases of terrorist threat or terrorist act. The role of the Ministry of Interior in the formation of this text is leading, and I hope that soon it will be ready to proceed with the coordination and discussion procedures, to enter the Council of Ministers. On this project I see not as a formal obligation. Taking into account the specifics of terrorism in recent times and the analysis we are doing, I would like to discuss for a longer period of time and, more precisely, to refine the texts so that we can really have a working law, when it comes to it or which will allow us to prevent acts of terrorism in the country. I think we're at the finish line and he's about to be introduced to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u148	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. A line? You're not going to take advantage of your right to a line. From the political party's parliamentary group "Attack" come in, prof. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u149	Mr. Chairman, my question is to Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva and he is very short and up-to-date. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, I ask you to answer the question: what are your motives to release the Deputy Minister. Nikolai Denkov from the job he was in? To this I will add that in my opinion I am 50 years of research, this team, which Minister Tanev had gathered in the government, is the best team of the Ministry of Education in 25 years! Such professionals as Kostadin Kostadinov, Professor at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Nikolay Denkov, leading chemist in Bulgaria, as the current, still, Secretary General Krasimir Valchev, has not existed throughout this history. Please answer me the truth: what are your personal motives?? Doesn't matter what the Deputy Minister has put forward? Your personal motives to release him and liquidate this team, because in fact the liquidation is already underway.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u150	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. I'm afraid that's not a good question for blitz control. If you can break him...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u151	That's the actual question. Mr. Chairman, don't make fun of me, it's not the first time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u152	If you can break your answer through the government's common policy, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u153	Mr. Stanilov, out of respect for you and your academic experience, with the permission of Mr. Chairman, I will still allow myself to step out of the framework of the blitz control and answer you. First of all, as Minister of Education and Science, I received the full right from the Prime Minister to make such changes as I consider necessary on the first day that I took over the ministry, in the political cabinet that I run. Each of the Deputy Ministers is my deputy. They replace me by areas where I define. That is, of course, what every minister does to a member of the cabinet. I fully share your high grades and prof. Kostadinov, and Professor Kostadinov. Denkov. What I have proposed to my fellow Members is to restructure the work of the political cabinet through the portfolios of the individual deputy ministers, to make a portfolio related to the operational programme, because this is a very specific activity, they do not make independent policies in the operational programme, but implement policies which in the other spheres in the three designated axes of school education, science, higher education, we have formed as a proposal. So we found a man the Prime Minister approved. He understands exactly from an operational programme, has a certificate from the European Commission to work with high value projects. I've reorganized the work among my deputies by proposing to professor. Denkov to lead not only higher education, but also science, science and higher education. His idea of how he could be most useful led him not to take these two so heavy portfolios, but to return to his academic work. I assure you, Mr. Professor, that with each one of them, and with Professor. Kostadinov, and Professor Kostadinov. Denkov, I will continue to work in whatever quality they are found in their work as very highly valued academic specialists. My relationship with them is excellent. And how will I manage the Ministry that I am entrusted with, I will inform you through parliamentary control. I think that such individual targeted blows do not help your excellent colleagues and without a doubt the cause we have all taken up, to make education and science truly effective and working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Honourable Professor. Stanilov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u155	In my current question, there were no numbers or other... Mr. Chairman, I protest your assessment, but, however, you do so very often. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, what you said is true. That is, you as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education have the right to select a team, only that the work of this team does not affect you personally and the government, but affects the entire Bulgarian people. I don't agree with this assessment of yours. This person to whom you have assigned the Operational Programme "Science" has a great deal of experience in agricultural projects that have nothing to do with research work, but Prof. Denkov has been the head of 25 international projects, which are "Science." You know that very well. I will never agree with what you have done, because I believe that behind this activity there is something else that in the coming months, by the end of the year will probably come to the surface. I think you are making a mistake and a bad service to the government, the prime minister and the ruling party, the ruling coalition, but this is your personal problem and especially to Mr. Borisov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u156	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. You have the floor for the back, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u157	Professor Stanilov, I am glad that after asking your question at the back, I think there was an octave lower tension in the exchange of our opinions. I think that in every person who deals with science, there is a resonant doubt that it begins to doubt. It's part of the work of people who do science. Please at least give yourself a chance to question what you start your impressions of a man you don't know. In our staff of the cabinet, I can tell you what is the example in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy - the Deputy Minister, who is involved there with the Operational Program, is also not a social worker. I mean, the opposite, I want to give all the people, including those projects that you talked about that were involved in. Denkov, to continue to participate and probably now that he is not Deputy Minister, will be able to apply for such projects even more, being out of the reach of the Ministry, but again I tell you, this is a personal decision. I remain with excellent and warm impressions from both colleagues. I'm sure we'll be able to use their capacity, either through a council function or through one of our agencies. I will not waste a gram of capacity from what the Ministry has built, and both colleagues will benefit from what they have learned. Thank you for your concern. Keep monitoring the Ministry's work. I believe that this should be reserved for national agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u158	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. From the group of the Bulgarian Revival Alternative, you have the floor for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister, my question is to Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova. It is related to the migratory flow, which is the permanent care of the government, the parliament and perhaps every Bulgarian. Fortunately for us Bulgaria is not one of the countries most affected by the migratory flow. This is probably due to the good work of the Ministry of Interior, the Gendarmerie, the army lately, and certainly to the local citizens who took part of these functions themselves. The conclusion of a General Agreement between the European Union and Turkey gave the impression that the problem of migrants has to a certain extent been resolved. Surely this Agreement crossed the so-called Western Balkan route. It is naive, however, to believe that human traffickers will turn out to be from their business, as ugly as that sounds, from an Agreement. Two or three days ago, one of the most authentic international magazines -- a diplomatic courier -- came up with some very disturbing, at least from my point of view, information. Citing reports from the secret services, the magazine exposed data that people dealing with trafficking in human beings have started to buy houses and villas in northwestern Turkey, along with buying ships and large boats. The conclusion of the magazine is that the next route will be via the Black Sea in Bulgaria. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My question is: does the Ministry of Interior have data on such plans and how would we react to such traffic?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u161	Dear Mr. Glauchev! Dear Mr. Kuchukov, I would like to make one point that it was not the agreement with Turkey that led to the closure of the Balkan route, but the policy of the countries along the Balkan route that made this channel for the transfer of migrants virtually more difficult. There have also been cases, following the statistics of "Frontex" in which in some of these countries there is also a migration of refugees at the moment. We, before signing the Agreement with Turkey, at all levels, raised the question that it should also take into account the danger of developing new routes across the territory of Bulgaria, crossing the Bulgarian-Turkish border. At the European level, I think that all responsible institutions - political and special - are aware of this danger. There is one point in the Agreement that may suggest the activation of the same mechanism as Greece if a mass migration of migrants along the Bulgarian-Turkish border is established. That is, we, even in this Agreement, have a certain guarantee that there will be a European reaction to Turkey if this happens. At the same time, we have an already approved readmission protocol with Turkey, and very soon it will be signed, that is, we will be able to bring back those we catch illegally on Bulgarian territory from Turkey by the established rules. These are some good guarantees at the moment. They do not comfort us and we do our best to strengthen our presence in this part of the border. We are working speedily on building the partition facility and we are conducting training and exercises that maintain combat readiness and in practice help us coordinate our efforts with the troops that would join us. On Sunday, we plan such a There we will also develop specific operational actions and coordination. At the moment, I can tell you that we have no record of passing this route. The overall assessment of experts is, it would be very difficult for migrants, including those who are trying to assist or traffic them. However, we are preparing for this as well. We want him to be sure. On Friday, I have a meeting with my Romanian counterpart, the Interior Minister of Romania. We will also discuss these issues with him because you know that they are also located along the line of such a possible route. At present, the analyses show that the new routes are not being developed through the territory of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u162	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. I accept your clarification that not only the General Agreement, but also the activities of the countries on the Western Balkan route have interrupted it. I agree completely. In the General Agreement, it is quite vaguely mentioned what our opportunities for readmission are. I'd say that doesn't comfort me personally. My question was related to something else and I am pleased with the last part of your answer. We shouldn't be looking for a way to do the readmission, we should be looking for a way to cross the streams. And what you have said, and what I have learned from other sources about the general teachings of the Navy and the border marine forces, is one thing I would say, very good news. I think it should go on, because that's the way to break the flow, not then look for how to do readmission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. Mrs. Bachvarova? You're not going to take advantage of your right to dodge. From non-members in parliamentary groups? Here you are, Mr. Enchev, for a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, fellow Members! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin. Mr. Kalfin, on 18 March this year, you stated that the increase in pensions inevitably went through the increase in taxes, and two days ago you made another very interesting revelation that you inevitably walked towards an increase in retirement age. On this occasion, I would like to ask you the following question, but before that I would like to make a brief comment, and it is as follows: Your first recognition of the inevitable increase in taxes in order to increase pensions is, in my opinion, a calling for the failure of your planned and implemented pension reform. The second recognition from 24 hours ago that the age of retirement will inevitably be lifted is antisocial because it refers to the poorest country in the European Union, where life expectancy is the lowest. I ask you very much to state your motives for these two positions of yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Enchev! I'm trying to read my own words in your question and, frankly, I'm failing. So I will say what I think about this very clearly. Retirement age is laid down in the Social Security Code until 2037. I don't think there should have been any increases. For reference, I will remind you that in the previous Code, before the changes of last year, each year it had to increase the age, to grow by six months the retirement age. This number of parliaments in different groups postponed, but never canceled. What the National Assembly adopted is the increase to be considerably less, much more bearable one to two months a year and this continues until 2037. I have neither intention nor public statements in the direction that something should be done other than what was adopted in the Law and which gives perspectives which is much better than what was before the amendment to the Code of Social Security was adopted. That's one question. On the other hand, the issue of increasing taxes and pension payments. If you look at the history of pension payments a few years ago, a significant part of the social security contributions, not the taxes that the employers paid, was cancelled in the name of the State stepping down as a third insurance provider. This significantly increased the need for a subsidy at the National Insurance Institute, as the state voluntarily said: we halve what employers pay and we start replacing it. From now on, if we want to have a significant increase in pensions, it means either increasing back the social security burden and I think that this should happen in the future, unfortunately in this Parliament there is no such majority, this has been seen in the changes to the Social Security Code, or the state should increase the subsidy for the pension system. However, increasing the subsidy makes an unstable NSI, brings back the system that had it during socialism, when budgetary opportunities determined what pensions would be. I remind you that at the end of 1997 pensions were several dollars, because that was how much the budget was. There was no pension fund separately. So it's not a good decision. The solution is to maintain the NOI, to strengthen and that is precisely what was included in the amendments to the Social Security Code adopted by parliament last year. We're already seeing an effect this year. Next year, we will see an even better effect in the sense that subsidies will already be less than the NSI's own revenues and in the long term, as this pension change is taking place smoothly to be acceptable to people, gradually increasing the autonomy of the NSI. It's people's pensions, it's people's money. It's important to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u168	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Enchev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u169	Mr. Kalfin, you didn't say a word about your statement on March 18th to a national television station that the increase in pensions went through a tax increase. I'm just quoting your words. Anyone can see them. On this occasion, I immediately make my comment that it is not a tax increase, but a flat tax removal is something that must be passed by our society in order to be able to increase pensions. In addition, you admitted very precisely yesterday that taxes are hidden in offshore areas and are immoral in nature. Therefore, here is another feather from which you can look for an opportunity to increase pensions, to say it directly,... a ban on offshore zones, although under Law this Parliament adopted offshore companies to participate in public procurement. Here are the two items from which you can look for an increase in pensions, and not as you say on March 18th. Besides, I'd like to remind you that in a Constitution, if I'm not mistaken, art. 51, the state is obliged to pay for pensions, as this article of the Constitution states that citizens are entitled to social security and if you cannot find money, therefore the state must subsidise. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that, in your capacity as Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister in the triple government of Sergei Stanishev, this government, which was so criticised, including myself, if we compare the raising of pensions of this government and of the current government, of which you are a member of the right government, comparisons are terrifying, as in the mandate of the triple government the social pension for old age was increased by 68%, with GERB 2012 by 9% and now by several percent. In the lasting coalition, where you were Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, the minimum pension was increased by 90%, and now you're increasing it by what, 2.5%, if I'm not mistaken? The triple coalition with Prime Minister Sergey Stanishev increased the average pension by 82%, it is about the period until 2009, when GERB came to power, and now you are increasing it again with some miserable few percent. You understand that the comparison is not in your favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. We move on to the second round of questions by the GERB Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and Mr. Deputy Prime Ministers! Our second question is to Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva. It concerns preparedness, preparation, key issues in relation to the forthcoming Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism mission. Where are we on standby, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister? I use this case and this circumstance to introduce both the plenary and the MPs that, within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, the Ministry of Justice, in cooperation with the Council of Europe, organizes a high-level conference on the topic of strengthening the independence and impartiality of the judiciary as a prerequisite for the rule of law in the Member States of the Council of Europe. This event will take place on 21 and 22 April in Sofia. The ministers of justice and high-ranking representatives of the judiciary of the Member States of the Council of Europe will participate. It will be a great challenge for us to host this conference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u173	Dear Mr. Kirilov, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! Indeed, we are expecting another mission from colleagues from the European Commission together with representatives of the member states, which will be the second half, the last decade of April. This is a mission aimed at preparing a report for the consideration of the progress of Bulgaria and Romania, which will be before the summer vacation. I stress that this COREPER report is expected to be considered orally in June. Our ambition is to present everything Bulgaria has been able to achieve since January. It's not small. I would especially like to commend my colleagues and Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova and Minister Zaharieva that in their fields they have proposed a number of bills, some of them already a fact that increases security, enable the implementation of the amendments to the Constitution. From my point of view, in the area with which I am engaged, the anti-corruption measures, we already have a Bill passing through the Council of Ministers and I hope that it will be distributed to the National Assembly very soon. Perhaps one of the committees will be yours. Outside of what is clearly legislative, however, there are many actions that show the determination of the government, in general the consistency of our entire society, the things that prevent us in the area of justice, anti-corruption and internal order, to become what we deserve, as all Bulgarians deserve. In this regard, I would like to say that the unit that works between the DANS, the prosecution and the Ministry of Interior gives us quite reasonable arguments that we are moving in the right direction and that there are results. Including recent actions taken with regard to the State Car Inspection, prove that no one stands and should not stand above the law. Besides the ministers, this mission will also be seen with the Supreme Judicial Council, the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Prosecutor General, probably also with MPs and NGOs. Here I want to say something that should be our starting point. Nobody's gonna solve our problems outside! The idea that the outside can give us the best recipe is not entirely true. They can tell us what are the best practices, what are the tools to achieve our goals, but they cannot replace either our choice or our determination when we are reaching for an instrument, to actually apply it to the end. This is where my colleague Deputy Prime Minister Donchev was just talking about a scalpel. Whether you reach for the scalpel or another tool or treat conservatively depends on what choice we make. I believe that right now the stakes on our success lie in how strongly we impose our laws. During this, Bulgaria may be successful, which will double the efforts you are making here in Parliament, with the adoption of the necessary laws. However, only with the adoption of laws do we realize in the Council of Ministers that the work will not be done. I'm a very strong opponent to let society watch. On the contrary, we must empower citizens to have the floor, to monitor and participate in these processes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u174	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. A line? You're giving up. From the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Welcome, Mr. Mikov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers! Dear Mrs. Kuneva, and our question is back to you. It was an extension of a month ago when we again had a question about secondary school. Then you said it was okay. These days, you said there were some mishaps, and under that, we understand that two classes of first and fifth don't have textbooks. If you don't have a letter for school, it hasn't been such a miracle in the last hundred years, at least there's no known record of such a thing! The second more interesting thing you are saying that students will learn on worksheets prepared by teachers! This thing is even more depressing now! The big question is that there are no developed standards. Teachers are not familiar with standards that may appear in a month or two. These events, which you are now conducting to promote this extremely harmful to Bulgarian education Law, for which European millions were spent to develop, put Bulgarian secondary education in an extremely difficult situation. What is the government's policy to save students, teachers, parents the chaos that is created in implementing the adopted Preschool and School Education Act? What's the policy? Because I'm under the impression that you're pursuing a policy of stubbornness. Hem you say that there are irregularities and can not become ready textbooks, and the standards cannot stand up to implement the Law, while you want to apply it, you experiment what will happen to the Bulgarian children! What is the policy regarding secondary education in the 2016 school year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u176	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u177	Dear Mr. Mikov, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! It is good that we are starting the conversation in plenary, because I also have blitz control in the Committee on Education and Science, where we will probably continue the dialogue with representatives and your respected parliamentary group. I know that you have tabled a bill requesting the postponement of the entry into force of the Law, but such a proposal does not meet support in the majority of MPs who support the government. I believe that the executive has the task of fulfilling the Law, and I am determined to do so.. The Law as it is at the moment, it has begun to act since 1 August, but the Law is what you have accepted. I want to assure you that the Ministry will make every effort to ensure that there are no shocks at the beginning of the school year. The new school year will start with the old textbooks and additional materials. We'll make sure that all the teachers have special training. The Ministry will work for a year on this task. The kids will have textbooks. However, the facts are as follows: The Law says that textbooks should be drawn up and imported to the Ministry of Education for seven months. My colleague Minister Tanev's order was issued on 8 January, which means the deadline expires on 9 August. We held a series of meetings with publishers, with MPs from the ruling majority, with hundreds of teachers it is not possible to evaluate the textbooks, printed, sewn and distributed by September 15th. From now on, there are two options: either postpone reform or deal with the situation. We bet on dealing with the situation. The law won't be postponed another year. On the one hand, for such a decision there is no adjustment in the legislative power, and on the other, this will give a very bad public sign that it has been postponed for years of cooked reform. Postpone the Law by one year because of the textbooks, postpone additional retirement benefits, postpone the qualifications of the teachers, postpone the changes for vocational education and finally postpone the future of the children. There are two critical textbooks: the letter for first grade and the story for fifth grade. For all other items will also be used now the current textbooks. We did focus groups with teachers and students, as well as expert analyses, we talked to hundreds of teachers. The conclusion of these measures is to make an application to textbooks that will be used by November, when publishers have promised to prepare textbooks, especially fifth grade history. In the first two weeks of the term, a review is made, and in time up to the new textbooks there will be provided materials. Teachers will deal with the necessary support of the Ministry, funds are set aside, people who will do training, we will work all summer. Although there are innovations in the new curriculum regarding the study order of the letters, the letters are eventually the same. And if anyone hasn't had a first-grader lately, let me just say that the second term is still working on the readbook. The letter ends with the first term. We have no problem studying with the old textbook, that is, with the old letter, because then children can spell the letter. Actually, the problem is the spelling. For this spelling the letters are as they were for all generations and millenniums of Bulgarians, the spelling will be done really through applications. I assure you that the Ministry is aware that this is an awkward task, but we are convinced that we will be able to handle it. Again, I'm going to continue this conversation with the Special Committee this afternoon. I'm sure I'll enjoy your interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u178	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. A line? Here you are, dear Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, a month ago the situation was better, no problems. Now there are some problems, some problems, and some first-graders will go to school without letters, because they can learn letters without letters. In fact, the social and educational degradation effect of the adopted Law and the secondary education policy is already beginning to emerge. Other visible results are yet to come. A simple question arises, Madame Deputy Prime Minister, why does she need the letters then? Is this the reform that brings us back to cell school? That's where the kids used to spell without letters. Or the letters, the reading books, and the other textbooks are only necessary for the business with which it has overgrown the Ministry of Books? That's all it takes, because there are periods in the millennial history, as you said, when children have studied without letters. We're obviously moving on to this period. If it's reform!? I would recommend that the government remove from its stubbornness. I know that millions have been spent on the development of this Law. That was the reason why he was accepted in the National Assembly. And now the recognition that these millions have been spent and spent in order to be confused, not to repair the Bulgarian secondary education, apparently weighs heavily. But it's better to admit it than to ruin it. I said the social and educational degradation of generations of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u180	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u181	Mr. Mikov, I would like to take the floor to say that there will be no trouble for children to learn to read and write in the first grade. The law cannot focus absolutely all the interest in itself solely on when the letter will come out. A letter is a complicated book indeed. She's got a lot of illustrations, stitches up and so on. You have made a few suggestions in your speech that I do not agree with. The first suggestion is that there won't be any letters. No! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, all those who listen to us will have letters. That's the letter that the kids are using right now. Just so that the new order of letters can be respected, and not as it is now, there will be additions to which children can read, they will be able to spell.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u182	Are you going to change the alphabet?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u183	If I were to explain to you what this Law should say, I would be really worried. Please very much, let us say clearly what will happen here and get support from you, to propose a Bulgarian Law adopted in the Bulgarian National Assembly. Ten years this Law has been waiting and now it's finally a fact, it's finally there. I think we need to create a suitable environment for him so that this Law can do its best. If this is how we try to trip each other every step of the way, I think we're giving a bad signal. Always the golden age is a century in which there is understanding. Let's make it a golden age, if not at all, at least on the topic of Bulgarian education.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u184	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u185	Thank you, dear Mr. Glauchev. Dear colleagues, since Mr. Glauchev was very generous to those who spoke in the blitz control today, he was impressed by our group that he gave between a minute, a minute and a half more to each of the speakers without making a comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u186	Including Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u187	Yes, it is possible. I therefore propose that we vote on extending the working time today until the adoption of item 3 of the agenda, namely the proposal of BSP left Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u188	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Christian Vigenin. Actually, there's no quorum. In this situation, the only thing we can do is continue with blitz control. The next group, which is next in line, is the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Any questions from the group? I won't. From the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc, the People's Representative Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva and it concerns the continuation of judicial reform. Colleagues, as you well remember, last week we adopted the first step in the amendments to the laws concerning the realization of judicial reform, we adopted the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, but there were many important issues to be considered, discussed and voted accordingly. In addition to the Law on the Judiciary, you know, there are some changes to the so-called laws of the Court and all this is about continuing judicial reform and implementing the reform of the prosecution, which we talk so much about, in this regard, to be transparent and more effective, guaranteeing the independence of the court and so on. Also very important are the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary in relation to the powers of the Inspectorate. Let us not forget the additional powers and obligations that we have imposed on them with the amendments to the Constitution. This must also be signed in the Law on the Judiciary and left as a second step. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, the information we have is that we are already working on the bill package in the National Council, and I ask you for a little more information: how is the work going, what deadlines can we possibly expect this package to be submitted by the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly? So what can you tell us about this so important topic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u190	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer. Please, within three minutes, so that we don't give rise to speculation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u191	I could spare a little bit of the minutes here, Mr. Chairman, because in fact this is not a common policy on which I will give the so important and necessary information you asked for. What is included in the Working Plan of the Council of Ministers with regard to the bills will be respected, there will be no deviations and no retreats from what we have decided as a list of the legal acts that need to be seen in the world, and as provided for in the Working Plan of the Council of Ministers. With regard to when Minister Zaharieva will complete the work on, so to speak, the second stage after the adoption of the most important reflections of the Constitution in law, I cannot tell you on her behalf. She presides both the process and the working groups, but knowing her persistence and efficiency, I guess it won't slow down. What Mrs. Zaharieva is doing wonderfully is to consult with many people, with many participants in this important change for the profession and at the moment she completes both coordination and round tables, she will fulfill her commitment, as always, with a lot of persistence and correctness. But I can't tell you on her behalf the deadlines, I'm sorry. I know that as a policy, there is no deviation and there is no retreat from the designated regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. You will not take advantage of your right to a line. The next question is from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u193	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Mrs. Kuneva as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education. The reason is yesterday's resignation of your deputy, Mrs. Kuneva, who is motivated by disagreement in the policy that will follow the Ministry in the field of higher education. We from the Patriotic Front have asked you the question in person. We would now like to hear from the National Assembly's platform its response to the policy of the government and your Ministry for Higher Education. A large part of the academic community is convinced that the reform, which began just over a year ago in higher education, aims simply to benefit several higher education institutions and to question the existence of specialties, separate directions, even major units in other higher education institutions. In our opinion, it is extremely important that proven out-of-capital academic centers are preserved and developed. They are often the only motivating factor for young people not to leave their homeland, of course. It is they who create footage of the local economy that will eventually develop these places, and the purely mechanical approach to the quality assessment of these universities is often false. It is true that their graduates find work harder, get lower incomes, but if we compare the unemployment rate in Sofia and in the province, we see a sensitive difference. The same is the situation with income, the same is the situation with public investment. In this spirit, perhaps every methodology should take into account these factors in order not to do so that regions that are once damaged because of state policy and the lack of investment in them will be harmed in other areas. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In this regard, Mrs. Kuneva, we would like to know the government's position on the development of higher education in one particular aspect, namely as a factor for the development of the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u194	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u195	Mr. Veselinov, I'm going to skip the first part of the question because you probably understand that I've already answered your colleague Professor. Stanilov. I've changed the portfolios so that higher education and science, as it's been for years, has actually always been so under the leadership of one of my deputies. The operational program is of special complexity. It requires not so much academic training, but understanding of finances, including what you said. I want there to be an equal distance between the Deputy Minister, who deals with the Operational Program, from all universities, from all types of education that are under the Ministry's hat, and that, I think, will give very distinct guarantees that there will be no other preference on any other basis in one or another decision. Yes, you are right that in the field of education and science we have an exceptional saturation of reforms in school education, in higher education, in science. Higher education is extremely close and there is no way to do it without science and without the scientific centers, this is at the heart of the reform that we are doing. But specifically for higher education, you know the Strategy, you have also participated in its discussion, I suppose, and in the amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act. I made a meeting with the Rectors of Higher Schools, with the representatives of the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency, with the CST in relation to the projects for amendment and supplement of the Law on Higher Education. We are currently preparing a decree on the terms and conditions for validating the number of students and PhD students accepted for training, a list of priority professional directions. You know what the philosophy is about the complex assessment, which is based on academic evaluation and market concept. So far, this complex assessment represents 12.8 per cent of the subsidy for the maintenance of the training. In order to stimulate state universities to increase the quality of training, this share should be significantly increased. The proposed act, which we will make, limits the funding of certain professional directions in which a higher school fails to compete successfully with others. In the performance of the activity: Preparation and adoption of a new Classifier of the fields of higher education and professional directions, which is in Objective 2 of our Strategy, we have held a number of meetings between the Deputy Minister of Education and Science, the Director of the Directorate of Higher Education with representatives of the National Statistical Institute. Opportunities for drawing up tables for the first stage of transition to the detailed areas of higher education are discussed. What the Ministry is currently working on is to assess the impact of the new Law. I regret that this has not previously been assessed on individual higher education institutions, i.e. how the new Law will affect their finances. By the end of May, colleagues had promised that this model, mathematically, would be a fact. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I just want to tell you that with the adopted decree that I've talked about several times... Really just one second.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u196	You can explain in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u197	... for the admission of foreign students from the Bulgarian diaspora in Bulgaria, we have added PhD students, and post-doctoral students - 20, respectively 15 pieces.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u198	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u199	For us from IMRO the policy for Bulgarian students abroad is particularly important. I wanted to hear if there would be, as there is a health card, a map on which higher education institutions would be distributed along the territory of the country and competition would be internal, regional, let's say. It is difficult to compete with some regions with Sofia, but internally they could successfully compete for the specialties we are talking about are too controversial. This is actually my main question: will we create sustainable higher education institutions in the regions so that they are a factor for growth, as well as a factor for keeping young people there?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u200	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Mrs. Kuneva, will you take advantage of your right to dodge? No. The next question is from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev and concerns the drama of farmers and processors of agricultural production in Bulgaria. For years they have been working in increasingly difficult and impossible conditions, as the main reason and factor for this are the dumped prices of imports of agricultural products in Bulgaria. The main reason for achieving these dumping levels of agricultural production prices are subsidies regulated or not, to other countries of the European Union and to third countries. In raising the issue to the ministers of agriculture and the economy in parliamentary control here, as well as in committees, the ministers and their experts have shown that they have not identified the problem, nor do they intend to resolve it in any way. The main problem they announce about the lack of competitiveness of Bulgarian agriculture is the weak concentration of producers in specific industries. I will not argue with you whether white is white or black is black, I would like to talk to you about the problem you have announced in Bulgarian agriculture. In view of the programmes that spend billions of dollars each year and in the terms of the Bulgarian reality, there are exotic concepts such as "innovations", "fortification," "development of agriculture," what measures did you take so that the beneficiaries could associate, consolidate and achieve the necessary competitiveness? In this context, you must have done an analysis in advance and a clear calculation of the critical concentration in each production so that the production concerned is competitive, i.e. whether 2 million eggs should be produced, whether 5 tonnes of milk should be produced and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u202	Thank you, dear Mr. Peichev. Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u203	I am not sure exactly what the question is, because this was a series of findings related to the problems in Bulgarian agriculture, with most of which I agree with and the lack of concentration, and relatively small scale, especially in some sectors such as fruit and vegetables production, livestock farming in some cases, because in other sectors it is not. With regard to imports from other countries, it is not necessary to comment that restrictions on imports, especially in the case of membership of the European Union, especially with other Member States, is not a measure that can be applied. If the goal is to conduct the conversation from the point of view of the effects or defects of direct payments, it is an analysis which could by no means fit into the three minutes at my disposal. There are effects, and some of them are flawed, by the way, corrected after the adoption of the new legislative package at European level applicable for 2014. Regarding the measures of association, because what I felt as an element of a question, I do not believe that all measures should be based on financial incentives. Here is the role of the Ministry and its regional structures, working with farmers, to convince them that if they work together, they could both be much more sustainable in terms of economies of scale and, from a point of view, for example, of the costs of irrigation, and from the point of view of the realization of production, to achieve a much better effect, to be much more sustainable on the market. Negotiating on the realization of production could, on the basis of the larger volumes they realize, negotiate from a completely different point of view. If there is any concrete proposal in your question that I have not understood, I am also available, as is the Minister of Agriculture, to listen to it and, if there is a chance, to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u204	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Mr. Peichev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u205	My question and my assertions, Mr. Donchev, were very clear, so I take as your friend the way you handled your response. I want to tell you, because you have also proved that you are not aware of the situation in which farmers are currently in.. they are currently reducing their production, some are closing their production. If things continue the same way, after a year in many of the sectors of Bulgarian agriculture can be dramatic. My request is because you have demonstrated that you have no sensitivity to ultimatums, my request is: pay attention! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Peichev. We're moving on to the next questions. The Parliamentary Group of Ataka Party has no question. From the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Revival Alternative to the People's Representative Georgi Kyuchukov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, my question is to Mrs. Kuneva. After long labor pains, our candidacy for Secretary General of the United Nations was born. I will not comment on it in time, sooner or later it has been submitted. It is a matter of judgment. On the basis of this application, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made one, I would call it an action plan which, in my humble judgment, is quite adequate and very well reflects what should be done. My view is that since we have an official application for UN Secretary General, this is now a position which is mandatory for all Bulgarian representatives abroad, for all official officials. In this action plan, there were points that said that our representatives on a visit abroad would act for a promotion of the candidacy. There is no such information in the public domain, but perhaps it is not available to the media. In the public domain, however, there is very certain information that some of the civil servants in Bulgaria and outside Bulgaria are actively acting against this application. My question to you is not only to a deputy prime minister who is responsible for this activity, but also to a person who has expressed his communion with this action: what will the Council of Ministers do to activate this plan and to oppose the destructive actions of some of our representatives?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u208	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u209	Mr. Kuchukov, some of our representatives, some of our actions, I can't really be specific if that's how you express your opinion. I can tell you that the government and I personally are absolutely convinced that when there is a Bulgarian candidacy and it is so worthy, it should be supported with all its strength. I believe my colleagues from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are headed that way. There are letters sent to the Bulgarian offices so that work can be done in this direction. If you ask me in a personal capacity because of the fact that I am Minister of Education and Science, which is very close to UNESCO's work, I use every opportunity where the Bulgarian candidate Mrs. Bokova is a representative, as long as, of course, I have an invitation to be with her and to say how important this national candidacy is to us. Beyond that, however, these little ramblings on the subject of work against, allow me not to comment, because it is not right, and I do not know exactly what you mean. If you have any disturbing signals, I'll notify the Foreign Secretary. If you consider it necessary, perhaps the Prime Minister, but I do not see such a reaction in any of your colleagues. On the contrary, we stand very strongly behind the candidacy. The very fact that the Prime Minister announced it personally, I think he provides sufficient guarantees for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u210	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Mr. Kuchukov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u211	Mrs. Kuneva, I stressed that I have no doubt about your kindness. Yes, I know that. Unfortunately, the scope of this blitzcontrol does not allow me to speak with specific names and facts. However, a statement by our official in front of foreign diplomats that the prime minister was mistaken for this candidacy seems counterproductive to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u212	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, douche bag? I won't. Do non-members in parliamentary groups have a question? I won't. We've exhausted today's parliamentary control. Moving on to: PROJECT FOR A DECISION ON THE PRESENTATION OF INTERPARLAMENTARY DIALOGUE AND COOPERATION BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION. Mr. Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs were importing on 8 December 2015. Before the control of art. 104 We were acquainted with an opinion from the importer Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor to speak. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u213	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u214	We've already done this once, but okay. Where are the parliamentary secretaries? With the help of the Quaestors, the parliamentary Secretaries shall establish a quorum in the Chamber. Parliamentary secretaries are Julian Angelov and Ayhan Etem. Please state, please, the availability or absence of a quorum in this Chamber. [[The Assembly shall enter and exit from the Chamber.]] Please stop coming in or out of the room so that they can count the available Members in the Chamber. [[The Quaestor Krasimir Paskalev reports to the President that 64 MPs are in the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u215	Confirming.64.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u216	What's the quorum? [[Reply.]] But we need 121 for a quorum. So far 65, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-06.u218	There's no quorum. I'm sorry, I'm adjourned for today. The next meeting is tomorrow at 9:00. This meeting is adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
