ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u1	Colleagues, please register. Abort registration. There's no quorum. Second attempt at 9:15 p.m. 9:17 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u2	Colleagues, please take your seats and register. Abort registration. There's no quorum. Last attempt at 9:30 p.m. Discovered at 9:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u3	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. One message. Honourable Members of Parliament, a study of the legislative activity was carried out in the National Assembly during the first year and a half of the term of 43rd National Assembly, prepared by the National Centre for Public Opinion Study. The material is provided to the MPs and the parliamentary groups by electronic means. The next item on the agenda is: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO PUT THE COMMISSION'S MANAGEMENT ON REGIONAL POLICY, BLAGOSTERITY AND LOCAL MANAGEMENT. Importers are Tsveta Karayancheva and Stanislav Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov, please introduce your colleagues to the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I suggest to your attention: Project! DECISION on the completion of the management of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Alexander Rumenov Nenkov as Vice-President of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to comment on the draft decision read? There aren't any. We're closing the debate. Colleagues, we are voting on the decision to complete the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Vote 134 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Congratulations to Mr. Nenkov. [[Private applause from GERB.]] We move on to the next item on the agenda for our weekly programme: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HELPING EARTH PRODUCERS. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. There is also a report from the Budget and Finance Committee. The report of the Committee on Agriculture and Food will introduce us to her chairman Mr. Rumen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act No 602-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 May 2016. The Commission on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 13 May 2016, at which it discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act, No 602-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 May 2016. The Commission's work was attended by Dora Nenova, Director of the Department of State Aids and Regulations at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The bill changes the mechanism for granting State aid to farmers in the form of a reduced excise rate on gas oil used in primary agricultural production, providing for the aid to be granted in the form of a discount on the value of excise duty and not in the form of fuel vouchers. The administrator of the scheme will be the Minister of Agriculture and Food, who will have to establish guidelines for its implementation. The total amount of aid will be determined annually by the State Budget Act for the financial year concerned. The persons entitled to the discount are scheduled. The application for assistance will be made in a light procedure. Farmers will submit an application for aid and copies of invoices for purchase during the previous year to the municipal agriculture services to the districts. The maximum amount of gas oil in litres to be recovered from the value of the excise duty will be calculated on the basis of eligible areas and/or identified animals. The calculations will be carried out according to a methodology established by the Minister of Agriculture and Food, which will uniformise the fuel cost values for decare and species of animals, each farmer will be allocated an individual annual quota in litres. For the purpose of the eligibility control of beneficiaries, administrative checks will be used on applications submitted for support which are carried out automatically by the Paying Agency through the integrated information system. The scheme will be able to apply to calendars from 2015 to 2020 including after receiving a final number in the European Commission's State Aid Register. The payment of the part of the excise duty to be recovered will be carried out by the Customs Agency under the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses within the year following the year in which it was paid. Aid is intended not to be granted where, following a previous decision of the European Commission against the farmer, a recovery order has been issued declaring the aid unlawful and incompatible with the internal market. Farmers who have violated the rules on the use of aid shall not be entitled to the same aid for a period of two years. An administrative penal provision for established infringements shall be established and a concept of...................................................................................................... The transitional and final provisions made the relevant amendments to the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs unanimously supported the Bill and stated their readiness between the first and second votes to make proposals to further ease the procedures for implementing the aid. They noted that better control should be provided for fuel suppliers companies and the possibility of introducing a differentiated rate for disadvantaged areas in the methodology for setting individual annual quotas should be considered, since in the mountainous and natural restricted areas, technological costs are higher. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has undertaken to provide the MPs with both the draft methodology and the guidelines accompanying the request to the European Commission for approval of the aid so that the proposals between the first and second votes can be as consistent and compatible as possible with these guidelines and requirements. After the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Food unanimously with 19 "for", without "against" and "abstained" proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Agricultural Aid Act, No 602-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u7	Thank you, Mr. Christov. We are moving on to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which will introduce us to the President of the Commission Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u8	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act, No 602-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 May 2016. At a meeting held on 13 May 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The Bill proposes changes relating to the new rules adopted in the field of State aid. The draft new State aid scheme for farmers has been developed in accordance with the requirements of Commission Regulation (EU) No 651 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market in application of art. 107 and 108 of the Treaty. The scheme shall be applied after receipt of the final number in the European Commission's State Aid Register. The Law proposes a change to the State aid mechanism in the form of a discount from excise duty on gas oil used for mechanised activities in primary agricultural production. In this regard, a change in the Law on excises and tax warehouses is also proposed. The aid will be provided in the form of cash by recovering part of the value of the excise duty by the Customs Agency and not in the form of fuel vouchers. Farmers are intended to apply for a single application and receive the aid at once. The total amount of aid will be validated by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the corresponding financial year. After the presentation and discussion of the bill was held with the following results: 16 votes for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act, No 602-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. On behalf of the importers, we have not allowed any representatives of the administration in the Chamber. I am opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! BSP left Bulgaria supports the proposed amendments to the Agricultural Support Act. I have to tell you that this is a long-awaited change, given that for one year the European Commission's authorisation to recover the excise duty on fuels was expected to be available for State aid that has been operating in Bulgaria for seven-eight years and thus was able to provide support for the sector, as is done in all other European countries, because the sector is one of the most sensitive and risky. From this point of view, State support through a state aid system creates prerequisites for developing it sustainablely. The proposed changes reflect the European Commission's permission to apply State aid.......................... the excise duty on fuels, and it should be stressed that the proposed procedure is much easier than the previous one. This is the first, important to control from the point of view of the administration for the implementation of State aid and we also believe that the grey sector is minimized because the refund of the excise duty will be against documents, invoices for the purchased fuel. The methodology for applying this State aid is expected to be ready after the adoption of the Law. We hope that this will happen within a very short period of time. At least this is how we were convinced after the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food that Methodology is very much ready. It is also intended to develop rules for joint control between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance. It is not yet discussed what these rules will be and whether they will correspond to the possibility of adequate control being carried out. I'd like to do a little flashback on the implementation of the state aid. In the period 2006 - 2009, this State aid was acting through flat rate reimbursement, through the Customs Agency, approved and quite adequate State aid, which did not create absolutely any administrative procedures and at the same time created prerequisites to provide adequate funding within the year in which the excise duty on fuels was refunded. State aid was notified between 2010 and 2014 by means of a refund of excise duty on fuels by means of vouchers. Here the question, which was raised by farmers and did not receive permission in GERB's first government, is that this aid, despite the change in the Law, did not apply until 2014 due to the refusal of the Minister of Finance then to provide the financial resources for the implementation of the aid. Apart from that, the vouchers system was very difficult to implement, difficult to control. The Oresharski government in 2014 provided the necessary financial resources and it was implemented in the Bulgarian legislation within just one year. From the point of view of what is currently being applied, we accept that it is a good option in which farmers will have the opportunity to receive support for their incomes, their business, and for 2015, there is an opportunity to make this happen also in view of the fact that the Budget Act provides for a financial resource that can be provided in this year for the recovery of excise duties for fuels. Between first and second reading, we will make some small proposals, changes in order to ease administrative procedures so that farmers within the year can ensure the opportunity to recover the excise duty for 2015. I very much hope that all the other necessary documents, which must be implemented, are available in this year, so that we can achieve the effect that is being pursued, namely the support of the sector through adequate State aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u11	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? Mr. Petrov, Parliamentary Group Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support the proposed bill because it is in the direction of facilitating farmers in obtaining European funds. In my meetings so far, there have been numerous complaints about the other extreme, in which we are going in some ways, we are becoming more faithful than the pope. The way they kept their journals is not recognised, since until now, in order to obtain part of the excise duty, it was necessary to present them. They found all sorts of errors in the documentation and eventually they could not get the subsidies that were due to them. In this way, agricultural production, which was produced, became less competitive against our neighbours. On the other hand, I am pleased that the new proposal that is being made increases the rates for obtaining excise duty for some of the cultures, especially for example in the processing of vineyards, which is very important for the economy. The increase in litres, which is due to the decare, I think, in many respects also reflects the greater costs that are being incurred in the more difficult areas to access. I think that any changes to the legislation relating to farmers should go this way. We must seek and find ways to compensate those of those who do business under the open sky. I would like to point out to you that without a well-functioning agriculture, without a well-functioning agricultural sector, the practice has shown that all other sectors are suffering underdevelopment, poor development. I would like to draw attention from this high tribune of all MPs that we are not sufficiently addressed to these farmers. Our attention is taken by another broken dam and a flooded village, and for example does not pay attention to what has happened in the past few weeks "the anomalies that destroyed thousands of acres of orchards. Near us, 50 km away, in Kyustendil region, we had temperatures of minus four degrees 20 days ago. Imagine what's left of these cultures. I would like to appeal, considering this bill, on this occasion and in other cases, of course, without breaking the Law, but to strive to help people who, once again, do business under the open sky. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u13	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act, No 602-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 May 2016. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The bill was passed at first reading. Go ahead, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u14	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 80 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly "The deadline for proposals between the first and second votes to be shortened to three days with a view to the urgency of the Bill and the desire to allocate the funds provided for in the budget to farmers, of 84 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u15	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Hristov to shorten the deadline for proposals between first and second readings. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PUBLIC PRESENTATION OF THE PRINCIPAL SECURITY. Mrs. Saveklieva, from the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to make a procedure on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber by the Ministry of Finance: Fezi Bekir
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. A reverse opinion? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the procedural proposal I hope in the back row we will have seats for all these people. Vote 96 MPs: 84, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the group to the hall. Continue with the title of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u18	In addition, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 602-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2016, adopted on the first vote on 17 March 2016. The Law on the Public Offering of Securities is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u19	Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting in favour of the Commission's text of the importer on the name of the Law. Vote 94 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 3. The title is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u20	Paragraph 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77sh, 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 the words "the sending country' shall be replaced by "the Member State of origin'. 2. In point (a), point (a) (a) in the text prior to the letter "sending country', the words "sending country' shall be replaced by the Member State of origin'; (b) in (i) in (ii) in (iii) in (iii) in (iv) in (iii) in (iv) in (iv) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi (vi) in (vi), the words (v) in (v) in (vi) in (vi) in (vi) the words (v) in point (iv), the words (v) in point (v) in point (v) the words (iv) of point (iv), the words (iv) and (iv) and (iv) in point (iv) the words (iv) in point (iv) the first), the words (iv) in point (iv) and (iv) in point (iv) in point (iv) in point (iv) 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 the words "the sending country' shall be replaced by "the Member State of origin' and "the Member State of origin' shall be replaced by "the Member State of origin'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u21	Mrs. Saveklieva, you don't need to read the paragraphs, you only read the bolted text, that is, the Commission supports....
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u22	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the 1. In para. 1, 2 and 3 the words "the sending country' shall be replaced by "the Member State of origin'. 2. In para. 4 the word "sentient' shall be replaced by the Member State of origin. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100g, para. 1, t. 1 the notifications under Article 1 shall be added after the words.................................................................................................... 100o1, where applicable.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u23	Statements, honourable Members, under paragraphs 1 to 8 inclusive? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are voting for an importer's text, supported by the Commission for paragraphs 1 to 8 inclusive. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Moving on to § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u24	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100k are made the following amendments and additions: 1. In para. 1 the words "sending country' shall be replaced by "Member State of origin'. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 1: (aa) in the text prior to the letter (s), the words (s) of the sending State (s) shall be replaced by the Member State of origin (s); (bb) in the letter.................................................................................................. is amended as (bb) for an issuer registered in a third country, the Member State chosen by the issuer between the Member States in which its securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market; the choice of the home Member State shall remain valid unless the issuer has chosen a new home Member State pursuant to point (c) and has made that choice publicly available in accordance with para. 3; (d) (c) point (b) is amended as follows: (b) the Member State in which the issuer has its registered office or in which its securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market, at the choice of the issuer; the issuer may indicate only one home Member State, and its choice shall be valid for a period of not less than three years, unless the securities are no longer admitted to trading on a regulated market in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State or where, within that three-year period, the issuer falls within the scope of points (dd) a letter shall be created in (d): (c) for an issuer whose securities are no longer admitted to trading on a regulated market in a home Member State designated in accordance with point (a) (i) (i) or (ii) of Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, but are admitted to trading in one or more other Member States, the Member State in which the issuer has its registered office or in which its securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market, at the choice of the issuer. (b) c. 2 the words "the sending country' shall be replaced by "the Member State of origin'. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The issuer shall disclose to the public its home Member State pursuant to para. 2, p. 1 (s) (i) (ii) under the terms and conditions of art. 100th and 100th. 4. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. The issuer shall inform the Commission of its home Member State where its registered office is in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the competent authority of the home Member State and the competent authorities of each host country. (5) Where the issuer does not make public its home Member State designated under para. 2, p. 1 (a) (b) (b) or (b) (b) within three months of the date on which the issuer's securities are first admitted to trading on a regulated market, a home Member State shall be the Member State in which the issuer's securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market. Where the issuer's securities are admitted to trading on regulated markets located in the territory of or operating in more than one Member State, those Member States shall be the home Member States of the issuer until the issuer chooses only one home Member State pursuant to para. 2, p. 1 letter (s) (in) and does not disclose this to the public. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 the words "disposals of "showing of" shall be replaced by "discovering of the notifications under art. It's 100o1 and it's 100o1. 2. In para. The second sentence of the second sentence is replaced by the second sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the first sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u25	Statements under § 9 and 10, honourable Members? There aren't any. We vote on the texts of the importer edited by the Commission for § 9 and 10. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u26	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100n are made the following amendments and additions: 1. In para. 3 the figure 2. In para. 4 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." a statement by the auditor who has certified the annual financial statement of the activity of a securities issuer company with an indication of its names and an address for correspondence certifying that: (a) the financial statement drawn up in accordance with applicable accounting standards shall accurately and honestly reflect information on the assets and liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the issuer; (b) the information relating to transactions with related parties is duly disclosed and disclosed in accordance with applicable accounting standards; (c) the information relating to the significant transactions for the public company for the relevant reporting period is duly disclosed in the Annexes to the Financial Statement; 3. Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The Annual Activity Report shall include in addition to the information under the Accounting Act and: 1. a corporate governance statement; 2. other information specified by a decree. 4. They're creating an al. 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12: The corporate governance statement shall contain: 1. information whether the issuer complies with as appropriate: (a) the corporate governance code approved by the Vice-President; or (b) another corporate governance code; (c) information on corporate governance practices that are applied by the issuer in addition to the code referred to in point (a) or point (b) of point (b); 2. explanation by the issuer which parts of the corporate governance code under point 2. 1 point (a) or (b) does not comply with either the grounds for this, respectively, where the issuer has decided not to rely on any of the rules of the corporate governance code. 3. a description of the main characteristics of the issuer's internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process; 4. information referred to in Article 10 (1) (c) and (d) of Directive 2004/25/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on takeover proposals; 5. the composition and functioning of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees; and 6. a description of the policy of diversity applied to the administrative, management and supervisory bodies of the issuer in relation to aspects such as age, gender or education and professional experience, the objectives of that policy of diversity, its application and results during the reporting period; where such policy is not applied, the declaration shall provide an explanation of the reasons for this. (9) The Code of Corporate Governance under para. 8, p. 1 letter "s' shall be published on the Commission's website. Where the issuer has accepted to comply with another code under para. 8, p. Point 1 (b) of the corporate governance statement shall state where the relevant texts are publicly available. In the case of para. 8, p. The issuer shall disclose to the public the details of its corporate governance practices. (10) The registered auditor carrying out an independent financial audit of annual and consolidated financial statements shall, in the audit report, make an opinion under para. 8, p. 3 and 4 and check that the information under para. 8, p. 1, 2, 5 and 6. (11) The requirements of para. 8, p. 1, 2, 5 and 6 shall not apply to issuers that have issued only securities other than shares admitted to trading on a regulated market, unless such issuers have issued shares traded on a multilateral trading system. (12) The requirements of para. 8, p. 6 shall not apply to small and medium-sized enterprises. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u27	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I won't. We vote on the importer's text, supported and edited by the Commission for paragraphs 11 and 12. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u28	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 3 is replaced by the following: Art. 100o1. (1) The issuer shall disclose a public notification of its financial situation within 30 days of the end of the first, third and fourth quarter. (2) The issuer who prepares a consolidated annual financial statement shall disclose a public notification on a consolidated basis of its financial position within 60 days of the end of the first, third and fourth quarter. (3) The issuer shall provide the notifications under para. 1 and 2 shall remain available to the public for a period of not less than 5 years. (4) The notifications under para. 1 and 2 contain: 1. references to a template designated by the Vice-President; 2. explanatory notes; 3. other information defined by a regulation. (5) The explanatory notes under para. 4 t. 2 shall contain at least information on important events occurring during the relevant quarter and with a build-up from the beginning of the financial year until the end of the relevant quarter, and on their impact on the results in the reports referred to in paragraph 2. 1 as well as a description of the main risks and uncertainties faced by the issuer during the rest of the financial year, transactions with related and/or interested parties, as well as information on emerging material claims and/or liabilities for the relevant reporting period. (6) Notifications under para. 1 and 2 shall be signed by the person representing the issuer. (7) The requirements of para. 1-6 shall not apply if the issuer discloses quarterly financial statements of its activity to the public within 30 days of the end of the first, third and fourth quarter, with the relevant content under art. 100o, para. 4 and in the appropriate application of art. 100o, para. Two, five, six and seven. In that case, the issuer shall ensure that the quarterly financial statement and the quarterly consolidated financial statement of activity remain available to the public for a period of not less than 5 years. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100p are made the following additions: 1. In para. 1, t. 1 after the words "the Central Bank of Europe', the "European Financial Stability Facility' (EFSF) established by the ISB Framework Agreement and any other mechanism set up to safeguard the financial stability of the European Monetary Union by providing temporary financial assistance to Member States whose currency is the euro'. 2. In para. 3 shall be added at the end until the debt is repaid. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100th, para. The first sentence shall be replaced by the first sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the second sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the first sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the first sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the second sentence of the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, 2 and 3 the words "the sending country' shall be replaced by "the Member State of origin'. 2. In para. 5 the words "sent and host Member States' shall be replaced by the Member State of origin and the host States.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u29	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members under paragraphs 13 to 18? There aren't any. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission, a proposal from importers, respectively edited and supported by the Commission for paragraphs 13 to 18 inclusive. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u30	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19: § 19. Section IIa with art. 100f1-100f3: "Department IIa" Disclosure of information on payments to the executive bodies in the Republic of Bulgaria, to a national, regional or local authority of a Member State or a third country, and to persons controlled by them Art. 100f1. The obligation to disclose information on payments to the executive bodies in the Republic of Bulgaria, to a national, regional or local authority of a Member State or a third country or to other persons controlled by such authorities shall apply to an issuer whose activity is: 1. related to the exploration, search, discovery, development and extraction of minerals, oil, natural gas or other raw materials covered by economic activities pursuant to Section C of Annex I, items 05-08 of Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 establishing the statistical classification of economic activities NACE Rev. 2 and amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 3037/90 and certain EC regulations on specific statistical areas, hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006; 2. logging pursuant to point 02.2 of Section A of Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1893/2006 Art. 100F2. (1) The issuer under art. 100f1 shall disclose to the public the annual payment report drawn up within 150 days of the completion of the financial year. (2) Enumeration under art. 100F1 which prepares a consolidated annual financial statement shall disclose to the public the annual consolidated payment report drawn up within 180 days of the completion of the financial year. (3) The issuer under art. 100F1 shall ensure that the annual payment report and the annual consolidated payment report remain available to the public for a period of not less than 10 years. Art. 100f3. The content and scope of the annual payment report as well as the applicable definitions shall be determined by the Accounting Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23. The Commission proposes to create a new § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 126b, para. 4 the word "three months' is replaced by "six months' and after the word "activity' is added a notification of a financial condition or a three-month financial statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u31	Statements, honourable Members, pursuant to paragraphs 19 to 24? I won't. We vote on the texts proposed by the importer, respectively, supported and edited by the Commission from § 19 to § 24, including which is a proposal for a new paragraph. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u32	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 145 the following amendments and additions are made: 1.Val. 5 : (a) in the text before t. 1 after the words "too much of', the number of "too many' shall be added; (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." has been authorised as an investment firm under the Financial Instruments Markets Act, the applicable law of another Member State and holds initial capital under art. 8, para. 1 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act; 2. They're creating an al. 6 and 7: In the case of shares held in the trading book within the meaning of Article 1, paragraph 1 shall not apply to voting rights or voting rights relating to shares held in the trading book within the meaning of Article 1. 102 of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 (OJ L 176/1 of 27 June 2013.), to a credit institution or investment firm, provided that: 1. voting rights held in the trading book shall not exceed 5 percent of the number of votes in the general meeting of the company, and 2. voting rights relating to shares held in the trading book shall not be exercised or otherwise used to intervene in the management of the company. (7) Alinea 1 shall not apply to voting rights relating to shares acquired for stabilisation purposes in accordance with Commission Regulation (EC) No 2273/2003 of 22 December 2003 implementing Directive 2003/6/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards exceptions to redemption programmes and the stabilisation of financial instruments provided that voting rights relating to those shares are not exercised or otherwise used to intervene in the management of the company. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 146 the following amendments shall be made: 1.Val. 3: (a) in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. 3 of Directive 93/22/EEC The Board on Securities Investment Services shall be replaced by the Call for Markets in Financial Instruments or the applicable law of another Member State. b) c. 1 the word "supplied' is deleted; (c) c. 2 the words "the portfolio' shall be replaced by "the portfolio'. 2.In para. 4 the word "supplied' is deleted; 3.In para. The first sentence shall be deleted and the words shall be deleted. 3 of the Annex to Council Directive 93/22/EEC on securities investment services is replaced by the Annex to Council Directive 93/22/EEC. 4 of Section "A' of Annex I to Directive 2004/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on markets in financial instruments, amending Council Directives 85/611/EEC and 93/6/EEC and Directive 2000/12/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directive 93/22/EEC.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u33	Thank you. Statements under § 24 and 25 by importer? There aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting for texts of the importer edited by the Commission for § 24 and § 25, which are respectively renumbered and become § 25 and § 26. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u34	Paragraph 26. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 148a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The obligation to notify under art. 145, para. 1 shall also apply to persons holding, directly or indirectly: 1. financial instruments which, under a written contract, give persons holding them on the date of maturity an unconditional right to acquire shares or a right of discretion in respect of their right to acquire voting shares issued by the company whose shares are admitted to trading on a regulated market; 2. financial instruments not included in item 2. 1 but related to those mentioned in paragraph 1. 1 shares and have an economic effect similar to the effect of the financial instruments referred to in paragraph 1. 1, whether or not they provide settlement rights through delivery of underlying securities. 2. A new para is being created. 2 and para. 3, 4 and 5: The notification referred to in paragraph 2 shall be made in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1. 1 includes breakdown by type of financial instruments under para. 1 by distinguishing financial instruments giving the right to settle by delivery of underlying securities and financial instruments giving the right to cash settlement. (3) The voting rights shall be calculated on the basis of the nominal value of the underlying shares of the financial instrument, except where the financial instrument guarantees only cash settlement, where the voting rights are calculated on the basis adjusted to the factor "delta" by multiplying the nominal value of the underlying shares by the factor "delta" of the instrument. For the purpose of notification under para. 1, the persons holding financial instruments shall aggregate all financial instruments related to the same company that issued the underlying shares. Only long positions shall be taken into account when calculating voting rights. Long positions shall not be netted with short positions related to the same company that issued the underlying shares. (4) For financial instruments within the meaning of para. 1, if they meet any of the conditions, shall be considered: 1. securities; 2. options; 3. futures; 4. swaps; 5. forward interest rate contracts; 6. contracts for differences; 7. other contracts or agreements having similar economic effect for which settlement may be made by delivery of underlying securities or cash settlement; 8. other instruments defined by a decision of the Vice-President. (5) The requirements of para. 1 4 shall not apply in the cases referred to in art. 145, para. 4 "6" and under art. 146, para. 2............................................... 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 6 and in it the words "Speeds of financial instruments under para. 1, the row' is replaced by the row "the row is replaced by the row is replaced by the row is replaced by the row is replaced by the row is replaced by the row is replaced by the row is replaced by the row is replaced by the row is replaced by the row is The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u35	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members, pursuant to paragraphs 26 to 29 by importer? Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting for texts of the importer for paragraphs 26, 27, 28 and 29 which are supported and edited by the Commission and become respectively paragraphs 27, 28, 29 and 30. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Please proceed with § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u36	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... A new article shall be created. 148g: Art. 148g. (1) The obligation to notify under art. 145, 146 and 148a shall apply to the person, the non-personalised company or trust where the voting rights held directly or indirectly by the person, the non-personalised company or the trust under art. 145 and 146, aggregated with voting rights relating to financial instruments held directly or indirectly under art. 148a, reached, exceeds or falls below 5 per cent or a number multiple of 5 per cent, from the number of votes in the general meeting of the company, according to art. 145, para. 1. (2) The notification under para. 1 shall include a breakdown of voting rights relating to shares held under art. 145 and 146 and voting rights relating to financial instruments under art. 148a. (3) For voting rights relating to financial instruments already notified under art. 148a, a new notification shall be made if the person, the non-personalised company or the trust has acquired the underlying shares and as a result of their acquisition the total number of voting rights relating to shares issued by the same company reaches or exceeds 5 per cent or a multiple of 5 per cent of the number of votes in the general meeting of the company pursuant to Article 145. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u37	Honourable Members, speeches on paragraphs 30 to 32? I can't see. We vote on the importer's proposals with the edited and supported texts, respectively, to renumber the paragraphs of the importer § 31, § 32 and § 33. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Dear colleagues, to announce that the balcony is attended by students third course of the University of Veliko Tarnovo (St. St. Cyril and Methodius). [[Applause.]] Although we are not very much in the room, the applause was strong. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u38	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 33, which shall become § 34: ................. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 212a and 212b: Art. 212a. (1) When it finds that an issuer has failed to fulfil its obligation to disclose the information referred to in art. Art. 100n, Art. Art. 100o, Art. 100c, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 100f2 111a, the Vice-President may: 1. inform the public that the issuer does not comply with its obligations; and 2. oblige the issuer to take specific measures within a specified time limit necessary to prevent and eliminate infringements, the harmful effects of them or the danger to investors' interests. (2) Where he finds that a natural or legal person has not fulfilled within the statutory period his obligation to disclose a shareholding under art. 145, 146, 148, 148a and 148g, the Vice-President may: 1. inform the public that the person does not comply with his obligations; 2. impose a temporary ban on the exercise of voting rights by those persons in the General Assembly of the public company; 3. oblige the person to take specific measures within a specified time limit necessary to prevent and remedy infringements, their harmful effects or the risk to investors' interests. (3) Forced administrative measure under para. 1, t. 2 may also be applied to the management and control bodies of the legal person or management body of the non-personalised company. (4) Forced administrative measures under para. 2, p. 2 and 3 may also be applied to the management and control bodies of the legal person. (5) The Commission may disclose the enforcement measure applied, unless it would seriously jeopardise the stability of the financial markets or cause excessive damage to the persons to whom that information relates. Art. 212b. In applying the administrative measures under art. 212a, para. 1, t. 2 and para. 2, p. 2 and 3 the Vice-President shall take into account all the circumstances relevant, including, where applicable, the ones referred to in art. 222a. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 213 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 2 and 3 are amended as follows: The notifications and notifications in the proceedings under para. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with Article 1. 61, para. 2 of the Administrative Procedure Code. (3) When the notifications and communications in the proceedings under para. 1 shall not be adopted in accordance with para. 2, they shall be deemed to have been carried out by placing a specially designated place in the Commission's building or by publishing them on the Commission's website. The latter two circumstances shall be certified by a protocol drawn up by officials appointed by an order of the Vice-President and in the cases referred to in art. 212, para. 1, t. 5, 6 and 7 by officials appointed by order of the chairman of the committee. 2. In para. 4 after the words..8 and 9..................................................................................................... 212 a.m. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u39	Colleagues, speeches on the three proposed paragraphs? I can't see. We are voting on the text of the importer, edited and supported by the Commission, for paragraphs 33, 34 and 35, which become paragraphs 34, 35 and 36 respectively. Vote 73 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u40	Under § 36, there is a proposal from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made in accordance with Article 36. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ Article 3 is replaced by the following: 221a: Art. 221a. (1) An escrow of a natural person or a member of a management or control body of an issuer of a legal person, or the person with management power of the issuer of a non-personalised company which does not fulfil the obligation under art. 100n, 100o, art. 100c, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 100f2 111a, as well as a natural person or a member of a management or control body of a legal person or a person with management power in a non-personalised company or trust which does not fulfil the obligation under art. 145, 146, 148, 148a and 148g is punished with a fine of 3,000 to 30,000 BGN. or to the double amount of profit or loss realised as a result of the infringement where their amount can be determined by applying the higher value. (2) For violations under para. 1 a legal person shall be subject to a financial penalty of: 1. from 5000 to 50,000 leva. or up to 5 per cent of the total annual turnover in accordance with the latest annual financial statement adopted by the management body; or 2. to the double amount of the profit realised or the loss avoided as a result of the infringement where their amount can be determined by applying the greater value. (3) In the cases under para. 2, p. 1 where the legal person is a parent undertaking or a subsidiary of a parent undertaking that has to draw up a consolidated financial statement according to the applicable accounting standards, the total annual turnover or the corresponding type of income under the relevant accounting directives under the last consolidated annual financial statement adopted by the management body of the primary parent undertaking shall be considered as a corresponding total turnover. (4) The Commission may disclose the penalty imposed, unless it would seriously jeopardise the stability of the financial markets or would cause excessive damage to the persons to whom this information relates. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 38. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. Art. 25 is created in Chapter Twenty-First. 222a and 222b: Art. 222a. (1) In determining the type and amount of administrative penalties under art. 221 and the Vice-President shall take into account all relevant circumstances, including, where applicable: 1. the gravity and duration of the infringement; 2. the degree of liability of the natural person or of the legal person or of the non-personalised company; 3. the financial situation of the natural person or the legal person determined according to the total financial turnover of the legal person or the annual income of the natural person; 4. the amount of the profit or loss realised by the natural or legal person or by the non-personalised company as far as it can be determined; 5. the amount of losses suffered by third parties as a result of the infringement to the extent that it can be determined; 6. the degree of assistance that the natural or legal person or the non-personalised company shall provide to the Vice-President or the Commission; 7. prior violations of the natural or legal person or non-personalised company. (2) For the purposes of para. 1 The Vice-President shall have the right to access tax and insurance information. Art. 222b. A person who, within one month of the entry into force of a criminal decree has not paid the penalty imposed on him, owes interest in the amount of the legal interest for the period from the date following the expiry of the one-month period until the date of payment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u41	Thank you. Speeches, honourable colleagues? We are discussing paragraphs 36 to 38 by importer. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We have supported all the texts so far, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are talking about a colossal reduction in financial sanctions in attempts to cheat the public and the stock exchange. I would like to say to you that we should support the texts of the Council of Ministers, which are fully in line with Directive 2013/50 of the European Union. I quote: this is about art. 221a, para. 1, where now the texts suggest that the fine will almost go down to 30,000. lv. and, respectively, up to 50,000. lv. for a legal person, provided that the European Union Directive and the Government propose for a legal person 10 million. EUR or 20 million. lv. and for a natural person 2 million respectively. EUR or 4 million Bulgarian leva. Sorry, it's about dramatic differences. We will practically reward what the Commission proposes after Mr. Dobrev's proposal. So we insist on sticking to the European Union Directive and to the texts of the Council of Ministers, as they have been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u43	Thank you. It is most likely about § 36 and the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Delyan Dobrev, which is supported by the Commission. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Honourable Members, I shall put to the vote an block of text of the importer, edited by the Commission for paragraphs 36, 37 and 38, which shall respectively become paragraphs 37 to 39 inclusive. Please vote. Vote 77 MPs: 68 against 7, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. It's a re-vote. If you'd like to reschedule only § 36?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u44	My fellow Members, I propose that we re-vote because I would like to repeat that with this vote you are violating a European Union directive and blaming the proposal of the Council of Ministers. I strongly support the government's proposal, it is in line with the European Directive. We cannot vote here for punishment and fraud instead of 20 million to put five levs. That's against common sense. I'm asking you to reschedule.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u45	You propose only § 36, the other two have already been accepted. We are revoting, honourable Members, § 36, proposed by the importer and edited by the Commission, which becomes § 37. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 66, against 10, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u46	Under § 39 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Alexander Nenkov and Vladislav Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) c. point 1 (c) is replaced by the following: b) points 8 and 9 are amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. The actual transaction is any transaction that: (a) leads or can reasonably be assumed to result in a favourable or adverse change of 5 or more per cent of the issuer's income or profit, from another financial indicator, as well as from the market price of securities issued by the issuer, and/or (b) it is likely to affect investors in making an investment decision or in exercising the right to vote on securities. 9. The entity or trust in which the securities are held is the person, the non-personalised company or the trust in which the securities are owed: (a) which issues or has issued through a primary public offering, including upon establishment of the company, and/or (b) admitted to trading on a regulated securities market. In the case of depositary receipts admitted to trading on a regulated market, the person who issued the underlying securities, whether or not those securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market, shall be the person who issued the underlying securities; (c) c. 29 the words "secs of an issuer registered in another country" shall be replaced by "secs of securities"; (d) point 40 is repealed; (e) c. 41 After the words 2. A new § 1c is hereby established: 1c. In the application of art. 145, 146 and 148a persons shall comply with regulatory technical standards adopted by the European Commission to determine: 1. the method for calculating the 5% threshold referred to in art. 145, para. 5 and 6, including a group of companies; 2. the method for calculating the number of voting rights under art. 148a, para. 1 in respect of financial instruments based on an index or basket of shares; 3. the methods for determining the coefficient of the delta under art. 148a, para. 3 for the purpose of calculating voting rights relating to financial instruments giving the right only to cash settlement. 3. The former § 1c becomes § 1d and in it: (a) c. 6 the words "and the Council' shall be replaced by "the Council's' of 15 December 2004 and the words "the market' and "the market' shall be replaced by "the market' and "the market'; (b) c. 7 the words "and the Council on the auction proposals' shall be replaced by "the Council's proposals of 21 April 2004 on the takeover proposals'; c) create t. 11 and 12: "11." Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 amending Directive 2004/109/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of transparency requirements with regard to information about issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market, Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading, and Commission Directive 2007/14/EC laying down detailed rules for the application of certain provisions of Directive 2004/109/EC (OB, L 294/13 of 6 November 2013.). 12. Article 20 of Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings and amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC(OJ L 182, 19 of 29 June 2013)................................... 4. Paragraph 1e is inserted: ...................................................................................... (1) The provisions of Chapter 6 of the Energy Act shall also apply to persons whose activity is governed by the Energy Act and the Water Regulatory and Sewerage Services Act of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, state enterprises under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law and commercial companies with more than 50 percent state or municipal participation in capital. (2) Paragraph 1 shall not apply to undertakings meeting two of the following criteria: 1. average number of staff for the year up to 10 people; 2. balance sheet value of assets as of 31 December. Up to 700 000 BGN• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. net revenue from sales for the year up to 300 000 BGN The Commission proposes to create a new § 41: ............................................................................. In the Transitional and Final Provisions, § 16, para. 2 t. 5 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u47	Thank you. Speeches, honourable colleagues? I can't see. We are voting § 39, which is edited by the Commission and becomes § 40, and a proposal from the Commission to create a new § 41. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u48	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission proposes to create new § 42 and 43: § 42. After 1 January 2020, the issuer shall draw up the annual financial statement of activity under art. 100n in a single electronic reporting format provided that the European Commission adopts regulatory technical standards for its designation. § 43. The Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Head of the Management Board, shall approve a code of corporate governance within the meaning of art. 100n, para. 8, p. 1 letter "s' within one month of the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u49	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. We are voting for anbloc, honourable Members, the name of the Transitional and Final Provisions and a proposal from the Commission to create new paragraphs 42 and 43. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u50	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 44. ..................................................... In the Financial Supervision Commission Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, p. 1 after the words the alternate investment fund managers shall be added, including those who manage venture capital funds, social entrepreneurship funds or long-term investment funds. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the a) create a new t. 10 and so on. 11, 12 and 13: ..10. is a competent authority for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 345/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2013 on European venture capital funds (OJ L 115/1 of 25 April 2013.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 345/2013'; 11. is a competent authority for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 346/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2013 on European Social Entrepreneurship Funds (OJ L 115/18 of 25 April 2013.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 346/2013'; 12. shall be a competent authority for the application of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities depositories and amending Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 236/2012 (OJ L 257/1 of 28 August 2014.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 13. shall be a competent authority for the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2015/760 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on European Long-term Investment Funds (OJ L 123/98, 19 May 2015.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) b) the current t. 10 becomes t. 14. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 is created new t. 14, 15 and 16: It's 14 years old. on a proposal from the alternate Vice-President, exercise the powers and take measures relating to the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 345/2013 and Regulation (EU) No 346/2013; 15. upon a proposal from the alternate Vice-President, shall issue, refuse to issue and withdraw the authorisations provided for in Regulation (EU) 2015/760 and shall exercise other powers and take measures in relation to its implementation; 16. upon a proposal from the alternate Vice-President, issue, refuse to issue and withdraw the licences provided for in Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 and approve, and exercise the powers under art. 13, 14, 15 of Regulation (EU) No are replaced by the following: (b) in para. Regulation (EU) No 345/2013, Regulation (EU) No 346/2013, Regulation (EU) No are finally added, and Regulation (EU) 2015/760; (c) in para. 7 words.............................................................................. The following points are inserted after point 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 is added at the end. 14 (b) c. 2 the words "the collective investment scheme activity law and other collective investment undertakings' shall be replaced by the collective investment scheme activity claim and other collective investment undertakings and Regulation (EU) No are replaced by "the collective investment scheme action claim'; (c) c. 6 and 7 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013', the words "Regulation (EU) No 345/2013, Regulation (EU) No 346/2013, Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, Regulation (EU) (d) a new item shall be created. 12: ..12. examine and rule on complaints under art. Art. 33, § 3, Art. Art. 49, § 4, Art. Art. 52, § 2 and art. 53, § 3 of Regulation No 909/2014 within 30 days of their entry into order laid down by Commission Rules of Procedure; (e) Previously on 12, 13 and 14 become ct, respectively. 13, 14 and 15; (f) the current t. 15 is going to be t. 16 and it shall be inserted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 236/2012', "Regulation (EU) No 345/2013, Regulation (EU) No 346/2013, Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, Regulation (EU) 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1, t. Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). (b) in para. 3 the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013' are inserted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 345/2013, Regulation (EU) No 346/2013, Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, Regulation (EU) (c) in para. The second sentence is created: In connection with the exercise of its powers of administrative penalties, the Commission and its authorities are entitled to access tax and insurance information under the terms and conditions of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 2, p. 1 after the words "Regulation (EU) No 236/2012', the words "Regulation (EU) No 345/2013, Regulation (EU) No 346/2013, Regulation (EU) No 909/2014, Regulation (EU) 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 is created. 11: The Commission shall apply the requirements of para. 7 and in the performance of his duties under art. 3a of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and under art. 9a of the Terrorism Financing Measures Act. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 the following shall be added after the words the Social Security Code (Secretary Code) and Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 (Secretary Code) (Secretary code) (Secretary code) (Secretary code) (Secretary code) (Secretary code)) (Secretary code) (Secretary code) (Secretary code)) (Secretary code) (Secretary code) (Secretary code) (Secretary code) (b) c. c. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 7 the final addition shall be made including persons managing venture capital funds, social entrepreneurship funds or long-term investment funds. (b) point 15 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u51	Paragraph 40 statements? I won't. Before we go to the vote, we have guests again on the balcony. These are dentists from the Regional College of the Bulgarian Dental Union. [[Applause]] , and students from the Professional High School of Agriculture, the city of September. [[Applause.]] Welcome! Dear colleagues, let us show them how we vote § 40, which is edited by the Commission, by importer, becomes § 44 respectively. Voting mode. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. Before going to the vote, I see that on the balcony it has already become close to welcoming the dancers from the Folklore Ensemble of Lyulin, Sofia. [[Applause.]] Please proceed with § 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u52	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. The second sentence of the sentence shall be deleted. 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 32a: Art. 32a. No enforcement and formation of collateral on cash and financial instruments of a collective investment scheme for liabilities of the management company or the depositary shall be permitted. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 86, para. 3 words.............................................................................. 24, para. 1-3, 7 and 8 24, para. Art. 1-4, Art. 1-4 24a, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 24b, Art. 24 years. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 197th para. is created. 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund (EAFRD) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development Fund (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development for Rural Development for Rural Development for Rural Development and Rural Development (EAFRD (EAFRD).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 345/2013' and Regulation (EU) No 346/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2013 on European Social Entrepreneurship Funds (OJ L 115/18 of 25 April 2013.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 346/2013'. (9) The persons under para. 8 shall be registered by the Commission pursuant to Article 8. 14 of Regulation (EU) No 345/2013, respectively 15 of Regulation (EU) No 346/2013. (10) Persons managing long-term investment funds shall carry out their activities subject to the requirements of this Law and Regulation (EU) 2015/760 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on European long-term investment funds (OB, L 123/98 of 19 May 2015).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) (11) The persons referred to in para. 10 shall be authorised to operate by the Commission, subject to the requirements of art. 5 and 6 of Regulation (EU) 2015/760. (12) The entry of the persons under para. 8 and 10 in the register under art. 30, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act shall be carried out in accordance with a procedure laid down by a regulation. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 244, para. 1 after the words..fund established in another Member State.... shall be added to provide the services defined in art. 198, para. Five o'clock. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 264, para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the words of the implementing acts, the applicable acts of the European Union shall be added. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 265 para. 2, 3 and 4 are amended as follows: The notifications and notifications in the proceedings under para. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with Article 1. 61, para. 2 of the Administrative Procedure Code. (3) When the notifications and communications in the proceedings under para. 1 shall not be adopted in accordance with para. 2, they shall be deemed to have been carried out by placing a specially designated place in the Commission building or by publishing them on the Commission's website. The latter two circumstances shall be certified by a protocol drawn up by officials appointed by an order of the Vice-President and in the cases referred to in art. 264, para. 1, t. 5 and 6 "Determined by order of the President of the Commission. (4) Forced administrative measures under art. 264, para. 1, t. 1-4, 7 and 8 shall be applied by a written reasoned decision of the Vice-President and the forced administrative measures under art. 264, para. 1, t. 5 and 6 by a writtenly reasoned decision of the Commission, which shall be communicated to the person concerned within 7 days of his release under para. 2 and 3. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is .) in para. 1 is created t. 4, 5 and 6: "4." Regulation (EU) No 345/2013 is punishable by a fine ranging from 10 000 to 20 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5. Regulation (EU) No 346/2013 is punishable by a fine ranging from 10 000 to 20 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 6. Regulation (EU) 2015/760 is punishable by a fine of BGN 10 000 to BGN 20 000 (b) in para. 2 are created t. 4, 5 and 6: "4." for infringements under para. 1, t. 4 - from 20 000 to 40 000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5. for violations of para. 1, t. 5 - from 20 000 to 40 000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 6. for violations of para. 1, t. 6 - from 20 000 to 40 000 BGN; (c) in para. 5 are created t. 4, 5 and 6: "4." for infringements under para. 1, t. 4 - from 20 000 to 40 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 40 000 to 100 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5. for violations of para. 1, t. 5 - from 20 000 to 40 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 40,000 to 100 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 6. for violations of para. 1, t. 6 - from 20 000 to 40 000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement from 40 000 to 100 000 BGN 9. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 274a: Art. 274a. A person who, within one month of the entry into force of a criminal decree has not paid the penalty imposed on him, owes interest in the amount of the legal interest for the period from the date following the expiry of the one-month period until the date of payment. 10. In the additional provisions: (s) in § 1: (aa) t. 18, point (b) is replaced by the following: A Member State other than the home Member State in which an alternative investment fund manager with a registered Member State provides the services specified in art. 198, para. 5. (bb) c. 23 is added at the end within the meaning of this point. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (b) Paragraph 2a shall be created: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The law provides for measures to implement: 1. Regulation (EU) No 345/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2013 on European venture capital funds; 2. Regulation (EU) No 346/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2013 on European Social Entrepreneurship Funds; 3. Regulation (EU) 2015/760 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on European long-term investment funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u53	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, a text of the importer, edited by the Commission for § 41, which becomes § 45. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u54	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 46. Proposal by the MPs Dobrev, Nenkov and Nikolov. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2, which is about creating a new § 48. The Commission proposes to create a new § 47: ss ss s s s s s In the Energy Act (prom., SG...), in art. 221 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: For an energy undertaking which does not fulfil the obligation under art. 84, para. 6, p. 2, a penalty of 20 000 to 50 000 BGN is imposed 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it after the word "injury" is added. 1 and 2
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u55	Thank you. Are there any speeches on the proposed by the Commission § 46 and a new § 47? I won't. Please vote on the text supported by the Commission for a renumbered § 42, which becomes § 46 and the proposal to create a new § 47. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u56	Under § 43, the Commission shall support the text of the importer which shall become § 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u57	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer for § 43, which becomes § 48. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u58	Under § 44, the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the paragraph be rejected. Under § 45, the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the paragraph be rejected. Under § 46, the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the paragraph be rejected. Under § 47, the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the paragraph be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 43. Under § 48, the Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that the paragraph be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission proposal to reject paragraphs 44, 45, 46, 47 and 48. Please vote. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The proposal was adopted by which it was adopted at second reading and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities. Before I give the break, one message: Dear colleagues, today at 11.30 in the Northern lobby of the National Assembly will be opened an exhibition dedicated to the 45th anniversary of the University of Veliko Tarnovo. Valentine's Day. Cyril and Methodius. The exhibition presents the history, achievements and wide palette of specialties of Veliko Tarnovo University. The Club of the National Representative exhibits picturesque canvases, graphics, installations and stained windows of lecturers and students from the Faculty of Fine Arts at the University. All MPs are invited to the opening, especially those from Veliko Tarnovo multi-mandated electoral area. I'm calling a break until 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u60	Honourable Members, we are continuing today's meeting and the agenda. Moving to point seven of the weekly programme voted: PROJECTS FOR DECISIONS ON THE ACCEPTANCE OF PROCEEDING RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND THE PROCEEDING OF CANDIDATES FOR THE PRESENT, REPRESENTATIVE AND MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION FOR PROTECTION, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION FOR ECONOMIC POLICY AND TURISUM, AS AND THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURATION. Importers are Petar Slavov and a group of MPs - 6 April 2016. We have an opinion from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as a report, and we have a solution in it. Ms. Saveklieva, the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. [[Presents Mrs. Saveklieva's report.]] I think the Opinion has already been discussed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u61	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u62	It refers to a proposal to reject the draft decision and to have a new procedure. On the occasion of the new procedure, there is a report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and a Decision. You are welcome to submit the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present to you ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on the Draft Decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 18 May 2016, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee discussed new procedural rules for holding a public procedure under art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of President, Vice-President and Members of the Commission for Protection of Competition. In accordance with art. 5, para. 5 in relation to Art. 4, para. 1 sentence second of the Law on Protection of Competition, the National Assembly must elect a President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition. After the discussion, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, with 12 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that the following be considered and adopted by the National Assembly: Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 4, para. 1 of the Law on Protection of Competition and Art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, Presentation and Public Disclosure of Documents and Hearing of Candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition and the submission of their documents. 1. Proposals for a Chair, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition shall be made by Members of the National Assembly or by parliamentary groups. Bulgarian NGOs may make proposals for members of the Commission for Protection of Competition to the MPs and parliamentary groups. When a MP or a parliamentary group makes a proposal based on a proposal from a non-governmental organisation, it shall note that. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism through the President of the National Assembly within 21 days of the adoption of the Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. Proposals for a Chair, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the high professional and moral qualities of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position under the model Annex 1 to the decision; (b) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model Annex No 2 to the Decision; (c) a detailed CV; (d) a certified copy of a diploma for higher legal or economic education by the applicant; (e) a criminal record; (f) documents certifying that the applicant proposed for: (aa) President shall comply with the requirement of professional experience under art. 4, para. 2 and the requirements of art. 4, para. 3 of the Law on Protection of Competition; (bb) Vice-President or member shall meet the requirements of art. 4, para. 3 of the Law on Protection of Competition. II. Public disclosure of documents 1. The submitted proposal, together with the documents attached to it, shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly without delay, but not later than 7 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates on the proposed candidates, including questions to be asked. 4. The media may send to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism questions to the candidates to be asked. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Alexander I" No 1, Economic Policy and Tourism Committee, or by e-mail: kipet@parliament.bg. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of candidates 1. Before hearing the proposed candidates, the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the applicant complies with the relevant requirements for the post for which it is proposed. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order of the names of the candidates for Chairman, Vice-President and Members within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Candidates for President shall present their concept of the Commission's activities for the protection of competition as an independent specialised state body within 15 minutes of a candidate. Candidates for Vice-President and members shall present their concept of the activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition as an independent specialised state body within 10 minutes of a candidate. 5. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates for the Chair and to the candidates for the Vice-President and members in alphabetical order of the names of the candidates within two minutes of the Member of the National Assembly for a candidate. Upon completion of the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly, the applicant shall be responsible within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism shall ask in summary the questions of the persons referred to in art. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received. 7. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 8. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing in which the candidates are represented. If several candidates for a position have been heard, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates, to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their own names and shall submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the relevant position in the Commission for Protection of Competition. 9. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not stop the procedure. The procedure does not stop when there is no candidate for one of the posts. V. Election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition by the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. 3. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 4. The National Assembly shall elect separately the President of the Commission for Protection of Competition, the Vice-President and the five members. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held, in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. 8. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 9. When one of the candidates for the respective position refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy by the National Assembly, and he is the only candidate for the position, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new procedure for the election of that position. 10. If there is no candidate for any of the positions, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for this position. Annex No 1 to the Decision....................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u64	Accordingly, one is consent or disagreement to be proposed for the post. The second declaration is for verification of belonging to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. My fellow Members, I recall that the debates are like a bill at first reading of the decision. Each parliamentary group has a limited number of minutes. I'm opening the debate. There is one draft decision that has now been reported by the Commission. Do you want a statement, Mr. Slavov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u65	Mr. Chairman, perhaps as a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u66	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u67	On the other draft decision as an importer to take the floor, but I can also make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u68	What was imported on 21 April 2016?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u69	The first one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u70	Yes, but we have already mentioned that there is an opinion from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u71	Okay, as a statement then, so we don't waste time. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I was going to withdraw our draft decision with my colleague Dimitrov anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u72	You're withdrawing him?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u73	I withdraw it, yes, because I think the point of it has been achieved, and it was really to put this important topic back on the agenda for the Commission for Protection of Competition and therefore to choose in a qualitative procedure a new guide to be chosen in a competitive procedure, a transparent procedure in which to appear a maximum number of candidates and to really choose the best of them. There should be absolutely no doubt that there could be some sort of party haggling, conversation and so on. We really need to select independent people, people who can resist this pressure that they will be subjected to there and actually do their job quality, have an effective regulator and stop these problems in many sectors that we have, with suspicions of cartels, unfair competition and so on. So that was the point of our proposal, as we had done with Martin Dimitrov. We fully understand that it is under the Rules of Procedure that it is the Court that must bring in the rules of procedure and, in accordance with this, for this reason I withdraw it. So let us really now in the debate on the already proposed rules of procedure by the Economic Commission say that they are really good. We are pleased that our proposals and arguments, which we made during the discussion of these Rules in general and yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy, namely three very important things, are seen inside. First of all, the longer period for proposals so that more proposals can be put together. Secondly, the possibility for the non-governmental sector to make proposals which are explicitly mentioned as being proposed by the non-governmental sector and tabled by one or another MP. But then it will be clear, so to speak, the background of the respective candidate. Finally, of course, this mandatory verification that we are doing in the elections and appointments of all the authorities during this term of office, the mandatory verification of belonging to State Security. This has also found a place. I really hope that the candidates are people without such belongings, so that there are no doubts about possible addictions. So I especially thank the Economic Commission, Mrs. Saveklieva, all the members who worked late yesterday to accept this Project as a solution and I call on you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. For a line? I won't. Statements? The word is Mr. Zhelyo Boychev from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am delighted that last week's debate has obviously had an effect and a quick decision to continue and launch the re-election of members of the Commission for Protection of Competition and President has already been made and is being discussed in plenary. I would like to say that our representatives in the Economic Commission supported this decision yesterday. However, for colleagues who are active in the fight today, to remind myself that I personally do not have great expectations in the re-trial of seeing something different, as again the same staff of this National Assembly will make proposals. The only thing we have done is that we have extended the deadline for these proposals and have given NGOs and civil organisations the opportunity to make such proposals, but again through parliamentary groups and through MPs, which was not currently prohibited and each of you in this House has had the opportunity in the last procedure to make such proposals. I hope that this agony has already been putting an end to it for eight months, since the Commission's mandate ended, we continue to work with the old composition of the Commission, which is setting up a political party GERB and the Reformation bloc. I would sincerely like this procedure to be completed successfully. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I am glad that Mr. Tsvetanov, as chairman of the largest parliamentary group, is here. Mr. Tsvetanov, my request is to talk to Prime Minister Borisov, ask him to call Mr. Radan Kanev, because last time Mr. Radan Kanev stopped the procedure, calling Mr. Borisov to understand in advance so that we do not witness such pathetic paintings for the National Assembly, for which once again to postpone the procedure of election of President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition. So I expect this time we'll do our job and be done with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u76	You're an opposition, understand!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u77	No, we're not involved in these deals and these deals, specify yourself. By the way, as you are having these conversations, to remind Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, who is here in the Chamber, that the Financial Supervision Commission is also running out of mandate next month and we are already in violation of the procedure should have started. I do not need to say how important this regulatory authority is and what responsibilities it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u78	Mr. Boychev, thank you. Are there lines? I won't. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, having respect for you, still let's talk about the rules of procedure that are voted for a future choice. In the precise texts that are being discussed today, I can assure you that there will be no further complications that we observed in the first choice. As for phone calls, I believe that right now the position of BSP left Bulgaria and Radan Kanev is very similar and I think that you have better communication with Radan Kanev than we do. So in this direction you can work together and really outline yourself as a real block of opposition BSP left Bulgaria, Radan Kanev and all others who think they can join. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u80	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. I don't see Mr. Kanev asking for a personal explanation. He's just not in the room. We are continuing the debate on the bill. Mr. Martin Dimitrov speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I do not wish for such an important topic, such as the choice of the most important regulator, one of the most important regulators in Bulgaria, to have similar tosses, which was started, but to address the issue with the full responsibility of a body, who should choose a new KPC. What is important is that the new KPC is not like the old one, i.e. to be more working, to be more efficient, because the price of a non-working regulator is high prices. This is the price Bulgarian citizens pay. This also concerns the growth of the Bulgarian economy. High oil prices reduce growth. This means fewer jobs and lower salaries for Bulgarian citizens. There's no room in this background, colleagues, for personal pranks. For example, the BSP colleague said that this was the way the BSP had voted, but the plural surprised me because the colleague was alone with the Commission. But whatever! We've got three things on our hands. We hold on to three things in these rules and they have been supported by the Commission, and I hope now also by the plenary. In order for the new CPC to be better than the old one, we want the nomination period to be longer than 21 days. This is exactly how the rules are written for there to be more applications, including nominations by non-governmental organizations, and the text of the Election Code is borrowed. When NGO/non-governmental organisations propose candidates, they are then submitted by MPs to indicate which NGO nominated the candidate first. This principle of the Election Code, we take it and we introduce it into these rules. Also, to have a background check for belonging to Homeland Security.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u82	It's there, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u83	He's got it, he's protected, and he needs to be supported. This does not stop the candidacy from being voted in Parliament, but allows the choice to be informed. Because these three proposals are a fact, we will support the rules and strongly recommend to Parliament a similar approach to the Financial Supervision Commission, honourable Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Dobrev. When Mr. Dimitrov speaks, usually you after that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u85	And without mentioning Haskovo this time. [[Arrival in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u86	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yesterday, the Economic Commission voted on the rules of procedure, as we agreed last week, that the procedure should be reopened within one month. Today it is the National Assembly's turn to approve the Rules of Procedure for Choice. They reflected the remarks and in fact the proposals of colleagues Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The only reason why I take the floor is not to have lines left or right, but to tell all the parliamentary groups that the deadline is 21 days, so that we do not find ourselves in the situation of the previous procedure, in which only the GERB parliamentary group has made proposals and this makes the race meaningless. Therefore, honourable Members, the time limit is 21 days, not to make it so that one can then justify that he has not yet reached the time limit............. so that everyone can make proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u88	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u89	Let's vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u90	We're closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on this, please ask the Quaestors to invite colleagues who are in the corridors. We are voting for a decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The decision itself was read in the Commission's report on economic policy and tourism. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The proposal is accepted, with which this paragraph 7 is also adopted. Moving on to point eight: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR CONTROL OF NARCOTIC INGREDIENTS AND PRECURSORS. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 15 January 2015, was adopted at the first vote on 1 March 2016. There is a report on the second vote by the Committee on Health. Dr. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u92	We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 87 MPs: 82, against 3, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite Dr. Penkov to the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u93	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present to your attention: The Council of Ministers submitted a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 602-01-2, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 15 January 2016, adopted at the first vote on 1 March 2016. "Improvement and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drug Substances and Drug Chargers. " The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. According to § 1 the proposal from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) This law shall pay fees for issuing, changing or renewing licences and authorisations, for issuing permits, for issuing and changing registration certificates and for giving consent under art. 86, para. 2, including costs for their preparation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u94	You have the floor for speeches. I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law, the text of the importer for § 1, edited and supported by the Commission, as well as the text of the importer for § 2, fully supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 79, no objection, abstention 12. The name of the Law and paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u95	According to § 3 a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Bozhinov, which has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Zhivko Martinov. He's withdrawing it now. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u96	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3 fully supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 13. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u97	According to § 4 the proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev: In § 4 of art. 31 words "Research, scientific and laboratory studies and educational purposes' shall be replaced by "medical and educational purposes, medical, scientific and laboratory research'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u98	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed text of the importer essentially limits the current liberal or relatively liberal regime for the use of cannabinoid medicines, cannabinoids drugs from severely ill. In a moment, I will list the category of patients who need this treatment. I suggest that in fact remain the old regime, which, although quite limited, I would say, quite repressive, nevertheless gives a prescription for a particular category of patients to take advantage of medical marijuana, but in the form of cannabinoid spray or oil that is used, I will present facts about this proposal in 12 countries of the European Union. The last three countries, which legalized medical marijuana, were Macedonia -- a week ago, Romania -- at the end of last year, Croatia -- two months ago. Twelve EU countries, too. We have just learned yesterday, I think it will not object, and the Deputy Minister of Health Germany is also preparing a similar liberalisation of the regime. What do I mean by this proposal of mine? At the moment, according to official medical research, it helps to talk about spray and cannabinoid oil, I am not talking about the legalization of cigarettes, in the relief of the severe sufferings of people undergoing chemotherapy, whether in the second or last degree of the disease, the so-called "terminal stage", a hundred percent helps in the relief of pain, suffering, lack of appetite, cancer, glaucoma, AIDS, hepatitis C, Alzheimer's and mostly muscle dystrophy. In Bulgaria there are many patients with muscular dystrophy. As has been said in the discussion in the Commission at first and foremost at second reading, when these patients were present in the Commission and confirmed that this preparation helps them. Now one of you will object that there are relevant preparations that are used, say, in the Netherlands. A patient suffering from muscular dystrophy reported that there is such a preparation in the Netherlands. I guess it can be imported into my house. But do you know what the price of a single dose is? 150 euros! A second degree cancer patient, after receiving chemotherapy, needs at least two or three doses of 150 euros! Who can afford it?! I doubt the Health Insurance Fund would allow that kind of payment. In this sense, I ask you to leave the old regime as it was, albeit quite limited, and accept and vote on the amendment I propose. Behind it are several associations of cancer patients in Bulgaria, suffering from hepatitis, glaucoma, cancer, muscle dystrophy and, above all, people, I repeat once again, undergoing chemotherapy. On this occasion, let me just say that Croatia has just legalised the use of marijuana for medical purposes. There it is written by the doctor for these categories of patients. I repeat this at the prescription of the specialized unit in the hospital in question with a one-time prescription issued by the doctor general practice. I guess the doctors here will get up and have to get up, probably to disprove me with medical arguments. I would therefore immediately like to take advantage of my right to a reply, although I have the opportunity to speak two or three more times, since I have tabled proposals on two paragraphs. I would like them to answer one question in advance: are they so inadequate from a medical point of view, do doctors in these 12 countries of the European Union not understand medicine, as well as from the last three countries that I have listed - Macedonia, Romania and Croatia - so they do not accept your arguments and have officially legalized cannabinoid oil and cannabinoid spray to alleviate the suffering of hundreds of patients? I stress the relief of suffering, not treatment. For treatment there are too few facts to prove that such a preparation helps. It has been registered in the State of Israel since 25 C.E. in the United States of America in 12 states, although at federal level its use is prohibited. I will not talk about the Netherlands and other countries in the European Union. Please very much, honourable Members, doctors with medical education, when they get up to bring here scientifically justified data on the damage or possible damage that may arise, to answer this question as well. In 13, 14 countries in the European Union, next week and the Federal Republic of Germany is expected to approve the use of these preparations, is there so much lack of expertise?! After all, I am asking you for something humane to do. I realize that the cause I stand for doesn't give me a political rating, as I can immediately take the charge and assume it was for the legalization of the soft drugs. On the contrary: I am for the legalization of a medicine that will ease the suffering of hundreds of people in Bulgaria who cannot afford the expensive preparation, whose name I have no right to mention, so that I do not advertise. Because it seems to me that one day every one of us, he or his family, don't give me God, can come to such a terrible situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Paragraph 4 of this Law, according to some, is it an extremely important paragraph to legalise marijuana for medical purposes? I will not hire to give the assessment to the Bulgarian doctors, but I can express my personal opinion that in Bulgaria there are amazing specialists, amazing doctors and amazing experts, especially in this area. They're all definitely against this thing happening. Moreover, as a person who is interested and wants to build his own opinion, I have read thousands of pages and thousands of reports over the last few months from so-called studies. I must tell you, colleagues, that there is no formal medical examination to confirm that the plant in question is healing. In fact, it's very controversial whether it's any consolation at all. I can only tell you that the last few studies have been conducted in the United States and there is no confirmation of such properties of this plant. Not one! But I can tell you as an economist another more interesting reference, which will probably give you an opportunity to assess what doctors are like in the States. Several states of the United States of America, although federal law strongly prohibits the distribution and legalization of marijuana, nevertheless in several states such as Alaska, Oregon and so on, it is legalized. And now pay attention at the beginning, when it was legalized a few years ago, marijuana for medical use, revenues make up 40 million. The dollar. As of March 2016, I worked hard to extract the official reference, this revenue accounted for 3 billion. 400 million. The dollar. In other words, honourable Members, in these States, people suddenly become so sick that out of the few thousand that use this marijuana for medical purposes, they make up several million already. Well, I'm asking, are doctors so incompetent in the U.S. that they can't handle the diseases of their citizens? Or just this marijuana is no longer marijuana for medical purposes, but it's used to legitimize the drug, because that's how its price falls and it becomes much easier to distribute. That is to say, from an economic point of view, we are applying the so-called "multiplication effect', more consumers, more profit at a lower price. I took the trouble of consulting specialists about what the price of marijuana was in the U.S. when it was illegal, illegal, and it turned out that one dose, according to their claims, was worth about $120. At the moment, a dose of legalized marijuana is worth $3.00. However, out of several thousand consuming this drug, they have become several million already. And, notice, legally making one huge profit. But for 3 billion. 400 million. U.S. dollars of revenue turned out to be the modest 40 million. Now tell me what you're talking about. And you decide whether we should support the proposal of colleague Enchev, which I am convinced he does with good intentions, but we cannot remove from the context of one or two who claim it. And one who claims it proved to be a very aggressive person in the Health Committee. The same one who is terribly ill turned out to be having no problem traveling around Europe, the world. I don't know how he does it with this disease. Leukemia is a very severe disease, exhausting the strength and life potential of a person, but apparently this gentleman, drinking marijuana, or how he uses it, I don't know, probably gets vitality. That's what I wanted to share with you, and you decide for yourself. I cannot support this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I agree with you, and in my speech, I stated for a reason that there is too little evidence of treatment of cannabinoid preparations, but there is 100% evidence of relief of suffering, pain, lack of appetite, especially after severe chemotherapy. For this you can ask any oncologist in Bulgaria. On this occasion, I should tell you, since you referred to a study of the United States of America that according to the latest clinical studies conducted at the University of Plymouth, UK, also published at the University of San Diego in the United States of America published in the Specialized Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery and Psychiatry, it has been said that it has been categorically proven that muscle stiffness is reduced, I am not talking about treating pain and spasms in patients with multiple sclerosis. It's been proven categorically. For this reason, in 13 countries of the European Union, I repeat once again, I am very sorry that I will have to repeat myself, the last of them, Croatia, Macedonia and Romania, have been formally introduced into the pharmacies network. Is that where doctors and pharmacists are malicious and think they're gonna make people junkies? All I'm talking about is cannabinoid spray and butter. I don't talk about cigarettes in any way. And on this occasion, I would like to give you a specific statistic, more precisely the latest information from the Croatian Ministry of Health. According to his provision, the use of these cannabinoids becomes legal for people suffering only from multiple sclerosis, carcinoma, children's epilepsy and AIDS, but not for diseases such as Parkinson's disease and psychiatric abnormalities. In other words, there is really a framework for these diseases only. And these regulations actually create a legal framework for imports of medicines into Croatia, created on the basis of cannabis, which are currently purchased in pharmacies only by prescription, as I said with a single prescription issued by a doctor general practice on the recommendation of specialists in neurology, oncology, infectology and neuropedia. Only on their recommendation and this recipe applies for only one month. The Panel of Experts... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Okay, I'll continue in the next paragraph when I have the right to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Enchev, you are forcing me to say things that perhaps it is not right for me to say, as they are part of private talks with MPs from Macedonia and from Croatia. But if you're holding it, I'll say it. First think, colleagues, which country is between Macedonia and Croatia, how many MPs, other than Macedonians, in the Macedonian Parliament of this country and ask yourself the question: in which country did the police attack in one of its tanks village, with heavy-armed equipment, drug mafias, marijuana manufacturers? The country's name is Albania. Now ask yourself why it is legalized there marijuana and with what pretext, so that I do not comment on the words of these colleagues who shared this modest, perhaps public truth to me. As for what my colleague Enchev said, my colleague Enchev, there are a lot of doctors here, a lot of medics. I assume you've heard of the placebo method. I can guarantee you that the placebo method can replicate it with a good psychologist and with a good suggestion of even one sugar, which will inspire the patient that it has eased all his pain, we can even achieve a healing effect. This was regarding the placebo method. I will give you a more interesting example: years ago, I do not make an advertisement here, Mr President, and I quote the name of the plant - Ginkgo biloba - everyone and everywhere there was talk about how the plant - Ginkgo biloba - improves the dew, how we should drink every day tea from Ginkgo biloba - with a simple but simple elementary instinct that no one explained to the people that the healing effect of the plant, the tree Ginkgo bilba is achieved only through the extract derived from the men's leaves, and the male leaves of the tree are only a few. I mean, all the other leaves... And the people of Burgas, I remember, in the Sea Garden, all the trees had been clobbered. All the trees! And because the improvement of dew is considered to lead to rejuvenation and extension of life and so on, I stood and wondered to the people and finally started explaining to them at least to leave the trees in peace, to have greenery in the Sea Garden. This is the healing effect you are talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Are there any other statements? Here you are.. People's representative Georgi Kyuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We're talking about using cannabinoids for medical purposes, and I figured it's high time for some doctor to talk about it. I didn't mean to make a statement, but they said, to put it mildly, a lot of things that, from a medical point of view, sound ridiculous. First of all, I would like to say that I believe in the good intentions to respond with this proposal to the desire of some of the people in Bulgaria - sick or not - for a more liberal attitude towards the use of marijuana and other cannabinoids. I will try from a purely medical point of view to tell you why I think this is untenable. First, cannabinoids have no therapeutic effect and this has been proven. How will the suffering of these people be alleviated, provided that marijuana, as well as all drugs, act in one place alone on the Central Nervous System, having an exciting effect on certain centers, and most importantly, they interrupt normal neural connections in this Central Nervous System, mainly associative links. Yeah, in that sense, maybe... They do not cure pain in any way, but they simply help the sick person not to feel it because he feels other things and sees other things. If we want to ease his pain, there are far more powerful narcotic analgesics, the morphine, which is completely resolved under strict medical supervision, has a much better effect, which I do not want to say that we should allow morphine in the way and over the road. A simple COX-2 inhibitor, colleagues know what it is, I won't say names so it won't be like advertising, it does the same thing. Even they are, at least for now, harmless. For me, the good intentions he has with the introduction of this proposal are somewhat consistent with the principle that the path to hell is paved with good intentions. I urge from a medical point of view that we do not accept this amendment, because this will lead to an uncontrolled expansion of the use of marijuana. I don't know where Mr. Bayraktarov's data came from, but it's a terrible thing to increase consumption a hundred times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u109	Thank you. My line will be very brief. Obviously, the path to hell has chosen 13 European countries, 12 American states and the state of Israel, so they have taken the path to hell, Dr. Kuchukov, with all due respect to your expertise, to your education. I speak not as a doctor, I speak as a man who holds the statistics before him. Assuming this is the path to hell, what's wrong with us taking this path to hell as the whole of Europe is on it. Since we are a member of the European Union, since the Federal Republic of Germany is at any moment expected to introduce these medicines, I stress medicines, I am not talking about anything else, obviously this is not such a bad path. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Are there any other lines? No. Here you go, Mr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u111	He will not argue with Mr. Enchev about the number of countries that have solved it. The question is, how did they solve it? What's the control? And then I said again, should we proceed to this way of easing the sick, provided that there are other ways available at the moment? How are we going to stop the out-of-control expansion? You have given the Netherlands, and I will give you an example in the Netherlands. Go for a walk in the center of the big cities and you will see what marijuana is used for and what it looks like. Let us not take uncontrollably and unreservedly the example of other countries without breaking them in our mentality, in our terms! Because I don't want to take the floor any more, this proposal somehow strangely collaborates with some of the following members, which offered almost impunity to plant hemp anywhere, with some light modes of authorisation, without the possibility of determining the amount of tetrahydrocannabinol in Bulgaria at all. This will completely legalize the use of marijuana, legalize it throughout the country and among the young generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u112	Thank you, Mr. Kuchukov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of a parliamentary group, I ask for a name check. That's an important question. Obviously, the ruling majority doesn't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u114	Give me the list! [[Noise and lines.]] Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - absent Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - absent Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Yanko Alexandrov Yankov is missing. Chavdar Peychev is here. In addition they signed up: Boyka Marinska, Borislav Milanov, Galya Georgieva, Ivan Dimitrov, Kostadin Markov, Dimitar Petrov, Valentin Nikolov and Georgi Bojinov. Hristo Gajev said he was here. We've got a meeting to go on. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Velizar Enchev. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 3 against 70, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4, which is fully supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 1. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted. You have the floor, dear Mrs Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u115	Paragraph 5. Proposal by the National Representative Velizar Enchev: In § 5, art. 32, point 2 is amended as follows: "2." In para. 5 the words "skilling, scientific and laboratory researches and educational purposes" shall be replaced by "skilling and educational purposes," medical, scientific and laboratory researches." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u116	Here you are, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u117	I will speak only with facts and arguments that no one will be able to disprove. The first fact in Bulgaria for five years has been carried out tests on a registered medicinal product on a cannabinoid basis. Five years of tests with the consent of the Ministry of Health! You can decide which governments have been in power for the last five years. There have been five tests carried out on this registered medical product that treats and, more specifically, relieves suffering from multiple sclerosis. I repeat, the tests have been approved by the Health Department. They were initiated by a private British company, the largest British company to supply British hospitals with drugs for multiple sclerosis. One dose of this drug, whose name I have no right to mention, but it is world-renowned, is 600 pounds. My question regarding this information is as follows: why has the Ministry of Health not announced the results of these five-year tests? And I immediately give the answer: because the results are adamant and benefit from the use of this preparation, which, as I said, is freely used in 13 European countries, of course, first in Britain. And if this is a medical argument, I will now give you a legal argument that may have to force Mrs. Daritkova to come out on the stand and legally defend it. According to the law on narcotics and precursors, art. 11, p. 4 only the Narcotics Council of the Ministry of Health has the right to propose a draft regulatory act, whatever it is, whatever the legal act on this change that you are making. As art. 11, p. 4 has been violated because these amendments, these proposals in the Draft have not passed at all through the Drug Council, I argue that from a legal, legal point of view, your proposals, Mrs Daritkova, I hope you will go out on the stand and protect them, and you should rather explain on what basis you jumped, in the literal sense of the word, the Board for Drugs and Precursors to the Council of Ministers and you came in violation of this article and this point with the amendments to the Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u118	Thank you. Just to make it clear that what is being proposed is a text of the importer. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Velizar Enchev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 10, against 62, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. And now I am voting on the text of the importer for § 5, which is fully supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 79, against 1, abstention 6. The text of the importer for § 5 has been adopted and is found in the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u119	Paragraph 6. Proposal from the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32a The following amendments and additions shall 1. In para. 1: (a) point 1 is repealed; (b) point 3 is repealed; (c) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." data on the trader's EIC and on companies registered in a Member State of the European Union or in a Member State of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, a document on the current registration under national law issued by the competent authority of the State concerned; (d) points 5 and 6 are repealed; (e) c. 10 words and a copy of this authorisation shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2 t. 1 is canceled. 3. In para. 3 is finally a comma and is added by sending a copy of the application. 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: Within 10 days of receipt of the request for verification by the Ministry of Health, drug inspectors shall carry out an on-site inspection to establish compliance of the factual conditions with the requirements of the law and the ordinance under art. 32, para. 6 and produce a protocol in duplicate. 5. In para. 7 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted 6. A new para is being created. 8 and 9: Within 5 days of submission of the application under para. 1 The Ministry of Health sends a request to the Management Board of the Bulgarian Pharmacy Union in an official order to issue a certificate of entry in the national electronic register of the members of the Bulgarian Pharmacy Union for Master Pharmacists under art. 34 as well as providing information on penalties imposed under the Law on the word organization of Master Pharmacists and the Health Act. (9) The Governing Council shall provide the documents under para. 8 within 5 working days of receipt of the request. 7. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 10 and amended as follows: In the event of deficiencies in the documents submitted or non-compliance between the status of the buildings and premises and the requirements laid down in the ordinance under art. 32, para. 6, when carrying out the checks under para. The Director of the specialised administration shall inform the applicant in writing and provide instructions for their removal within one month of receipt of the notification. The notification shall also contain an indication that the proceedings will be terminated if the deficiencies are not resolved within that time limit. 8. So far, the Al. 9 becomes para. 11 And in it the words are said. Each Member State shall ensure that the following conditions are met: ......................................................................... 9. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 12 and in it the words "two months' shall be replaced by "50 days'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u120	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to say that the Committee on Health clearly complies with all the regulatory requirements regarding the legislative initiative and the proposals that are made not only by me but also by all MPs. According to these regulatory requirements, between first and second readings, I have sent all the proposals made under the Draft Law to the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Health have spoken on them and strongly supported my proposals and rejected some of the proposals made by other colleagues. I would like to remind the honourable Members that the Minister of Health is Chairman of the National Drug Council of the Council of Ministers, so in this element of our legislative activity we are absolutely fine. The decision of the MPs in this House is now in place which proposal they will support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u122	That's more like a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u123	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u124	It's a personal explanation, I can't give you the floor for a line. If you want to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u125	Dear Mrs. Daritkova, with all due respect to you as Chairman of the Health Commission, but I would like to state that the Minister has personally given, and there has been no meeting of the Council on Drugs, to discuss the matter and to formally submit it to the Commission, to the Parliament, according to art. 11, point 4. However, the Minister of Health, as President of this Council, has not formally called it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u126	Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 6 by importer, which shall be supported and edited by the Commission accordingly, in accordance with its report. Please vote § 6 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 2. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u127	By § 7, the Commission shall support the text of the importer. According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: s) Retail trade, storage and distribution of medicinal products containing narcotics from the lists referred to in art. 3, para. 2 point 2 and 3 shall be carried out by a licence issued by or authorised by the Minister of Health. 2. The creation of para. 3: The conditions and procedures for carrying out the activities under para. 1 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 32, para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u128	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 7 and 8 in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs 7 and 8 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u129	Under Paragraph 9, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) point 2 is repealed; (b) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." data on the trader's EIC and on companies registered in a Member State of the European Union or in a Member State of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, a document on the current registration under national law issued by the competent authority of the State concerned; (c) points 4 and 5 are repealed; (d) c. 8 the words "and a copy of this authorisation" shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2 the words "retail and storage' shall be replaced by "retail', storage and release and finally a comma shall be placed and added by sending a copy of the application. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: Within 10 days of receipt of the request for verification by the Ministry of Health, drug inspectors shall carry out an on-site inspection to establish compliance of the factual conditions with the requirements of the law and the ordinance under art. 32, para. 6 and produce a protocol in duplicate. 4. A new para is being created. 5 and 6: Within 5 days of submission of the application under para. 1 The Ministry of Health sends a request to the Management Board of the Bulgarian Pharmacy Union in an official order to issue a certificate of entry in the national electronic register of the members of the Bulgarian Pharmacy Union for Master Pharmacists under art. 34 as well as providing information on penalties imposed under the Law on the word organization of Master Pharmacists and the Health Act. (6) The Governing Council shall provide the documents under para. 5 within 5 working days of receipt of the request. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes a new para. 7 and is amended as follows: In the event of deficiencies in the documents submitted or non-compliance between the status of buildings and premises and the requirements laid down by the ordinance under art. 32, para. 6, when carrying out the check under para. 3 The specialised administration shall notify the applicant in writing and provide instructions for their removal within one month of receipt of the notification. The notification shall also contain an indication that the proceedings will be terminated if the deficiencies are not resolved within that time limit. 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 8 and in it the number 7. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9 and in it the words "retail and storage' shall be replaced by "retail, storage and release' and the words "two months' shall be replaced by "50 days'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u130	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 9 by importer, which is generally supported by the Commission and edited by the same, in accordance with its report. Please vote § 9 on the Commission report. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u131	Paragraphs 10 to 20 shall be supported by the Commission by adopting the text of the importer for those paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u132	We are voting on paragraphs 10 to 20, including, in full support of the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 10 to 20, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u133	Under § 21, there is a proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev in § 21, Art. 46 point 1 is amended as follows: "1." In para. 3 the words "Research and scientific laboratory research and educational purposes' shall be replaced by "medical and educational purposes, medical and scientific laboratory research'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u134	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In previous debates, it is suggested that if a person with multiple sclerosis accepts a cannabinoid to relieve horrible suffering, pain and stiffness, he will become a junkie. If a person undergoing severe chemotherapy wants to accept the relevant cannabinoid, and let me tell him the name of the person who is worth 600 pounds per dose and is legalized in almost the entire European Union, he will become a junkie, Mr. Bayraktarov. Don't you think that's an antihuman philosophy?! We are only talking about the sick, people who suffer, who feel the need, but not to use a 600 pound preparation, for which I do not yet know whether the Health Insurance Fund will allow it from next year when it will be introduced, as the information we have is that this British company has already almost secured its legalization of this product. Will you plead the Health Insurance Fund to pay those 600 pounds or to be borne by the patient?! To claim that easing the suffering of the sick with a drug that is recognised in half the European Union, in half the United States of the United States, in the State of Israel, that this is a propaganda of drug addiction, I repeat once again, is inhumane and unprofessional. To be specific, by the end of next year this British company will start selling this preparation in Bulgaria at this amazing price. I am officially asking the head of the Health Commission: will you, Mrs. Daritkova, plead this product to be paid by the Health Insurance Fund? And if you claim that this product will be paid by the Health Insurance Fund, I immediately withdraw my offer. I also ask: why don't we start our own production of oil and spray, and I stress that only for this category of sick people, which will be way cheaper for both the health care system and the sick, but will not be profitable for private foreign Western companies that earn billions of dollars? For this reason, let me tell you that in the country of Israel, where they know their interest very well and are therefore a great state, what their practice is. I hope this gets into the discussions someday, into the transcripts. The health ministry of Israel, having legalized since the 1990s the medical use of marijuana, is currently supported by the strong research sector, pleads the Health Ministry, to adopt the European example of free sale in pharmacies, as Israel is fully legalized the use of these products, but not in pharmacies, and the medicine is provided only in hospitals. Unlike the United States and much of Europe, there is no dispute here. In the country of Israel it is believed that if a person is sick and suffering, and since morphine does not help him or the cost of morphine is too high, he has the right to choose the preparation and no one can prohibit him from using this preparation as he believes he will be drugged. What does it matter for one person to the third degree of cancer to what will lead to the use of this preparation or even to the use of the cannabinoid or even to the use of the spray, and why not to the cigarette, because if you go to oncology in Sofia or to the Medical Oncology Dispanser in Sofia you will surely find if a reporter goes to a television station, how relatives of patients after chemotherapy buy marijuana cigarettes to alleviate the suffering of their patients. I am finishing my speech, because I know very well that you will reject this proposal of mine, but next year and I hope that Mrs Daritkova will now take the floor and declare that she will plead the preparation of the next year, after passing these tests, be fully paid by the Health Insurance Fund, and then I withdraw the proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. It's not just your speech, it's everyone entering the shorthand, not one day. Let me get this straight. Are there any lines? I won't. Statements? Before that, a personal explanation of the MP Daniela Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Enchev, legislative activity should be approached not emotionally, but pragmatically, taking into account all public interests. The basic principle, which has been enshrined in the work of doctors since Hippocrates, is primarily not to be harmed. We have always been guided by this in our practical activities and also in the work of the Committee on Health. What are the facts in the medical scientific literature so far?? The one available to the Committee on Health? We have been referred to by a number of scientific companies at medical universities, for example, for real practical research, that the use of cannabinoids leads to reactive psychosis and early manifestation of paranoid schizophrenia. Yeah, that's medically proven. For everything else to alleviate the suffering of patients medical science works in such a direction that even those patients who are in the final stage of severe illness offer medications that are not harmful to their health. Otherwise, in Bulgaria, we have a strict regulation on how different drugs enter the so-called positive list, in which conditions and in which cases they are paid by the National Health Insurance Fund. This does not in any case depend either on the bias of certain Members of the Parliament or on the personal commitment of the President of the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u138	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's nice to really read too much. Dr. Daritkova is right that whether a medicine will be taken by the Health Insurance Fund or not, in no case depends on any member of the National Health Insurance Fund, except in the case where the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund is to be voted. My speech will be very brief. Since I see that basically the same MP is speaking, I think it is appropriate to declare a conflict of interest under art. 143. [[Heckling]] Whether he's taking, whether he's snorting, snorting, getting high, and so on I don't know, I can't argue, but I think it's good to still declare a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u140	Each Member of the National Assembly shall have such an obligation. A line, Mr. Enchev? Personal explanation or a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u141	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u142	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u143	I declare that I have no conflict of interest, but this parliamentary procedure that you used is an attempt at discrimination, rather than presenting facts and documents as I export. I'm gonna say something I'm gonna end up with. The law on narcotics and precursors has been rudely violated. Art. 11, p. 4, Mr. Bajraktarov, who says that only the Council on Drugs and Precursors of the Ministry of Health, whose chairman is Mr. Moskov, can propose regulations. Such a regulation, after a Council meeting, will not. There is a personal decision that is called the self-government of the Minister of Health Mr. Moskov. This is my speech to understand the audience and you, honourable Members, that when it comes to legislation, I can say that the law is broken. When you show me a document from a meeting of this Drug Council, where there have been debates and has voted, then I will withdraw all my proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u144	Thank you. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. The line was more to Minister Moskov than to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u145	Yes, and I, dear Mr. Chairman, am wondering, in fact, to whom was the line to me or to the minister who is not here or to anyone else?! I admit, I didn't hear your colleague declare a conflict of interest...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u146	He said he wouldn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u147	...casing him or his relatives in a straight line. I admit, I didn't hear that. If he can say it again. Again, conflict of interest concerning him or relatives in a straight line, because it is extremely important to know. From then on, I can only tell you, colleague Enchev, that it is still good to read well, exactly, correctly and especially if I have to quote Mustafa Karadaye today, read the Constitution, Mr. Enchev! You restrict the constitutional rights of the Members of the National Assembly, which are guaranteed by art. 87 of the Supreme Law................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u148	Mr. Enchev declared the lack of conflict of interest. This line thing is nice in view of the subject matter being discussed, but there is no such obligation for lines. Any other speeches? I won't. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Velizar Enchev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: 11 against 53, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u149	Mr President, honourable Members, I propose a re-voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u150	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We are revising the proposal made by the National Representative Velizar Enchev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 4 against 64 abstentions 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 21, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 4. Paragraph 21 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u151	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. Under § 23, there is a proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev in § 23 in art. 54, p. 2 is amended as follows: "2." in para 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 the words "Research, scientific and laboratory research and educational purposes" shall be replaced by "Educational objectives" and "Science research and laboratory research." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u152	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Velizar Enchev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 3 against 67, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 22 and 23 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 77, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 22 and 23 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u153	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24 and § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u154	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer supported by the Commission for § 24 and § 25. Vote 85 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 5. Paragraphs have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u155	Proposal by the National Representative Velizar Enchev: In § 26, in art. 71 the words "skilling, scientific and laboratory researches and educational purposes' shall be replaced by "skilling and educational purposes, medical, scientific and laboratory research'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26. Proposal by Velizar Enchev: In Article 27, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 73, para. 1 words for educational, medical, scientific and laboratory studies shall be replaced by educational purposes, medical, scientific and laboratory studies. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u156	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposals made by the MP Velizar Enchev for paragraphs 26 and 27. The Commission does not support them. Vote 84 MPs: 1 against 69 abstentions 14. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 26 and 27 fully supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 4. Paragraphs 26 and 27 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u157	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 85a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1, t. 5 all over the words "antagonist" shall be replaced by "antagonist" and "antagonist" shall be replaced by "antagonist" everywhere. 2. In para. 2 words for doctors working in the area of treatment of addictions and others are replaced by a doctor with a recognised degree in clinical toxicology, three doctors with a recognised degree in psychiatry, of which at least two are working in the field of treatment of addictions and/or psychosocial rehabilitation, and other medical patients. 3. In para. 3 is finally added for a period of four years under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules of Procedure under para. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u158	Statements? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 28, supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 75 against 2, abstention 8. Paragraph 28 of the Commission Report, which supports the text of the importer, has been fully adopted. I am now voting on the generally supported text of the importer for § 29, which is edited by the Commission in a version presented by its report. Vote 85 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 8. The Commission's editing of § 29, according to its report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u159	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u160	Do you have any comments? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 30, which is fully supported by the Commission and reflected in its report. They voted 83 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 7. Paragraph 30 by importer supported by the Commission has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u161	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "antagonist' shall be replaced by "antagonist'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the words "systemic infringements' shall be replaced by "two and more infringements over a period of one year'; and "antagonist' shall be replaced by "antagonists'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u162	Statements? [[Reply.]] It had to come out and explain what it meant. There are no speeches. I shall close the deliberations and put to the vote the generally supported text of the importer for § 31, which is edited by the same and is annexed in its report. 84 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 6. Paragraph 31 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u163	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-19.u164	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 32, 33 and 34 by importer, which shall be fully supported by the Commission and shall be placed in its report with the same numbering. Vote 84 MPs: 75, against 2, abstention 7. Paragraphs 32, 33 and 34 of the Commission report have been adopted. Communication on parliamentary control regarding the newly elected Minister of Labour and Social Policy. To the former Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin four oral questions have been asked by MPs who have not been answered. These are the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Hasan Ademov, Willi Lilkov, Dimitar Bajraktarov and Durhan Mustafa. In accordance with the requirements of art. 92, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, ministers shall have at least 48 hours to prepare answers and respond in person. The newly elected Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova will be given the time laid down by the Rules to get acquainted with the questions and to update the answers according to her views and in this sense prepare her participation for the next parliamentary control meeting on 27 May 2016. This has been the practice of structural and personal changes in the Council of Ministers. Communications on Parliamentary Control on 20 May 2016, Friday, 11.00: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva will answer five questions from the MPs Metodi Andreev, Zhelyo Boychev, Yavor Haytov and Petar Slavov, Stanislav Stanilov and Ayhan Etem. 2. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer two questions from the MPs Yavor Haytov and Borislav Iglev and Ivan Slavov Ivanov. 3. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer three questions from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Manol Genov, as well as a question from Manol Genov. 4. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 18 questions from the MPs Iskren Veselinov, who has two questions; Durhan Mustafa; Dragomir Stoinev and Georgi Gokov, who also has two questions; Emil Raynov, Milen Mihov, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Ivan Kirilov Ivanov, Georgi Kadiev, who has two questions, Willi Lilkov, Atanas Zafirov, Grozdan Karadzhov, Petar Hristov Petrov, Slavcho Atanasov, Svetla Bachvarova and Manol Genov, as well as one question from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. 5. Justice Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer two questions from the MPs Willi Lilkov and Yavor Haytov. 6. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer 10 questions from the MPs Filip Popov, Dimitar Delchev, Krasimir Bogdanov, Svetla Bachvarova with three questions, Svetla Bachvarova and Kircho Karagyov, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev and Slavi Binev with two questions. 7. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer six questions from the MPs Slavi Binev, who has two questions; Antony Trenchev, Chavdar Peychev, Martin Dimitrov, Valeri Simeonov, Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov; and Yavor Haytov and three questions from the MPs Slavi Binev, Antony Trenchev, Valeri Zhablyanov and Zhelyo Boychev. 8. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer a question from MP Willy Lilkov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, to a question with written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; and to four questions written by the MPs Petar Slavov, who has two questions; Dzhevdet Chakarov and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski of a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to two questions from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; and to two questions with written answer from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov and Georgi Gokov; - the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Stanislav Stanilov; and to two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Culture Vezhdi Rashidov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions with a written answer from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev. In the absence of the country, the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, Health Minister Petar Moskov, Culture Minister Vecdi Rashidov and Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will not participate in the meeting for parliamentary control. Due to international meetings, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov and the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to the use of leave, the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will not take part in the parliamentary control meeting, but will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am adjourning today's meeting. Tomorrow, regular, 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
