ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of Parliament, after discussing the Conference of Presidents minutes earlier today, I suggest to your attention the following draft work programme of the National Assembly for the period from 20 to 22 April 2016. 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was adopted in the first vote on 29 October 2015. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 3. Draft decision on the Easter vacation of the National Assembly for 2016. Importers: Dimitar Glavchev, Kiril Tsochev, Krasimir Velchev and Nayden Zelenogorski. 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 5. First vote on the Bill to supplement the Penal Code. Importers: Valentin Radev and a group of MPs. 6. First vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act. Importers: Valeri Simeonov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Daniel Kirilov, Borislav Velikov, Krasimira Kovachka and Yavor Haytov. It is envisaged as the first point for Thursday 21 April 2016. 7. The second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code is a joint draft drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 10 March 2016 by importers: Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs, Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs, Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, Miho Mihov and a group of MPs; a second draft of Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, a second draft of Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs, Ts Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, Cornelia Nino and a group of MPs. The second point is provided for Thursday 21 April 2016. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 16 March 2016. 9. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act. The importer is Ivan Stankov. Please vote. They voted 146 MPs: 118, against 15, abstentioned 13. Program accepted. There are two proposals received in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first during this week is Ms. Mariana Boyadjieva's MP from the BSP Parliamentary Group left Bulgaria, which proposes to include First reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law and on Radio and Television, No 554-01-136 of 16 July 2015, with importers Stefan Danailov and a group of MPs. Mrs. Boyadjieva, you have two minutes to present your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I appeal to you again with a proposal on behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group left Bulgaria to be included in the programme and to examine the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on Radio and Television, which provides for the introduction of new norms to limit the possibility of broadcasting programmes that include cruelty and violence. Such practice already exists in a number of European countries. Such programmes, which are not subject to absolute ban but can harm the physical and mental development of young people, should be limited in terms of their transmission within certain time limits. We suggest that this be in the hours from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. at night. The next important point in our proposal is an amendment to the Law on the Council for Electronic Media. We propose to renew it to three years with a new member of the National Assembly's quota and from the President's quota, and every sixth year with two new members from the National Assembly's quota. Thus, following legal changes since 2010, when the principle of systematic renewal of members of the Electronic Media Council was violated, this injustice can be corrected. The third important point in our bill is related to the volume of commercial advertising. Many people complain about the volume of sound when advertising is broadcast in TV shows. We therefore propose the introduction of the European norm, with a uniform standard for regulation of sound levels in advertising. It provides for three levels of measurement of sound height and thus I think that the big issue of discontent with the insufficient control of the Council for Electronic Media in relation to the booming advertisements in television shows can be solved. And one last thing. [[the President signals that time has run out]] With our bill, we suggest that children's shows are not allowed to be interrupted by ads.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u3	The proposal is only procedural, Mrs. Boyadjieva. You are currently carrying out a procedure, and you have presented us with the bill on behalf of an importer. Okay. Thank you, too. Colleagues, we are voting on this proposal. They voted 142 MPs: 57 against 4, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules belong to Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova, MP from the Parliamentary Group of BSP LB, which proposes to include the first vote in the weekly program of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Agricultural Arenda Act, No 554-01-52, from 13 March 2015 with importers Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. We're listening, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, we propose that our proposal relating to a change in the Landing Act be considered on the agenda. As mentioned, this Law was submitted to the National Assembly a year ago. It was discussed in the Committee on Agriculture and Food, a very good debate was made, which highlighted the main problems related to the rental relations in Bulgarian agriculture. We therefore propose that this bill be included in Parliament's programme for this week, as we believe that discussions will give reason and opportunity to correct in the Law actions and practices that are not relevant and are not in the interest of the owners of agricultural land. I mean, the lease law was passed nine years ago as a framework law that regulates certain public relations in the agricultural sector. At the same time, in these nine years there have been extremely many problems mostly in the area of property protection of agricultural land. From this point of view, we are proposing a number of changes relating precisely to the protection of owners and the creation of order in rental relations. I would like to point out to you that nearly 12 million. Dekara land is subject to lease relationships and each year there are problems in terms of the right to use this land and a number of problems with the possibility to apply it and to be realised as a contractual relationship in which the owner and the user can be in a level playing field. I suggest that you support this initiative because a debate is needed. We must do what is necessary to change these rules, which in practice have created prerequisites for abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Colleagues, voting regime. They voted 140 MPs: 45, against 14, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kazak, it's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, and the Conference of Presidents, I have raised the issue on the agenda of the grounds for proposing the inclusion of this item. 7 in the weekly programme. The amendments to the Election Code. The Legal Committee is also meeting on Monday. Last night at least until midnight, as far as I know...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u7	I'll see you at 12:30.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u8	By 12:30, there were actually five, six people present. Such a shocking acceptance of the texts, according to the opinion of one of the most important laws for the country, seems absolutely unfounded and inexplicable. What's the hurry? If the Legal Committee has any deadlines to meet, they shall not apply to the plenary. There is no argument relating to any upcoming referendum that would justify such a hasty, shocking adoption of such important and substantial amendments to our electoral legislation, whatever we are offered with this weekly programme and whatever intention has been declared. We suggest t. 7 down. To have the possibility of the texts, which were adopted by midnight last night, for which at least there is doubt about their synchronity, good thinking and last but not least, the vast majority of the members of the Legal Committee have not had the opportunity to get acquainted and participate in their discussion. What is left for the plenary? Let's take this election code seriously. If the referendum is to be discussed, let us discuss this point [[the President signals that time has run out]] and according to the decision, in relation to the referendum, to assess what amendments to the Election Code should be adopted and not vice versa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u9	Dear Mr. Kazak, as well as the Conference of Presidents, I now answer your questions. The inclusion of the second reading of the Draft Law on Changes in the Election Code on the General Report of the bills for amendment and supplement to the Election Code are bound by a decision of the National Assembly, above all resulting from the referendum held at the same time as the local elections last year on the initiative of the President of the Republic and the deadlines which we........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Secondly, this deadline is also linked to the imported by the Grand... Time, please, two minutes. Two minutes, I'm entitled to an answer. The second argument is the fact that on 11 April this year the National Assembly received the petition to initiate a national referendum relating again to questions on electoral legislation. Colleagues, we're bound by deadlines there, too. The monthly deadline expires on 11 May, which is the first day of plenary after the Easter holidays of the National Assembly. On these arguments and in view of the fact that the Legal Committee is working, we are ready, there is no obstacle to making this report available for second reading in plenary. That is why we have already taken a decision by voting. 7 to be in the weekly program. [[Reply by National Representative Chetin Kazak.]] You're suggesting a drop point? I didn't hear such a procedure, it was more of a question. I take it that's the procedure you're doing from place to place.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u10	I suggested it, run a background check on the transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u11	You suggested it, okay. I apologize. So I take it as a reverse opinion, or both minutes for a response to a procedure. I put to the vote Mr. Kazak's proposal. 7 drop out of our weekly program. They voted 146 MPs: 51, against 73, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 13 to 19 April 2016: - A bill to prevent corruption and take away illegally acquired property. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is allocated to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interests and parliamentary ethics, the Committee for Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee for Budget and Finance; - A bill to supplement the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importers are Manol Genov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead; - A bill to supplement the Public Procurement Act. Importers are: Valeri Simeonov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Daniel Kirilov, Borislav Velikov, Krasimira Kovachka and Yavor Haytov. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall lead; - Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Communications. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. Distributed to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order; - Draft decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importer is Velizar Enchev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs; - Draft decision for the adoption of the Annual Activity Report of the Office of Military Information. The Council of Ministers is the importer for 2015. The distribution is coming; - Project for a decision for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for an award with the Order of the Old Mountains. Importers are Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Health; - Project for a decision in relation to the Easter vacation of the National Assembly for 2016. Importers are: Dimitar Glauchev, Kiril Tsochev, Krasimir Velchev and Nayden Zelenogorski; - Draft decision for adoption of the Annual Report of the State Committee on Security of Information on the overall status of the protection of classified information in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. By letter No 654-00-68 of 15 April 2016, I was informed by the MPs Manol Genov, Dora Yankova, Radoslav Stoychev, Chavdar Georgiev, Kircho Karagyov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria that on the basis of art. 82 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly withdraw the bill of amendment of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Structure of Territories, No 554-01-175, submitted on 11 November 2015. The Council of Ministers shall, on the basis of art. 105, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in the National Assembly have been received for information: - Convergence Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria 2016 - 2019 approved by Decision No 280 of the Council of Ministers of 2016; - Update for 2016 of the National Reform Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria in implementation of the Strategy "Europe 2020" approved by Decision No 284 of the Council of Ministers of 2016. By my letter, the materials are provided to all the Standing Committees and are available to the Members of the National Assembly in the Library of the Assembly. On 19 April 2015, the updated Annual Audit Programme of the Court of Auditors for 2016 was submitted by the Court of Auditors to the National Assembly. The updated Annual Programme was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee and was available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving to point one of our weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE ANIMAL PROTECTION LAW. Mr. Hristov, come in with the second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I suggest to your attention: Report on the Animal Protection Act No 502-01-57, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2015 and adopted at the first vote on 29 October 2015 The Act for amendment and supplement of the Animal Protection Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u13	Statements? I won't. Colleagues, we are voting on the name of the Law. Vote 11 MPs: for 110, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u14	There is a proposal of MP Radan Kanev and MP Rumen Hristov. The Commission on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly did not discuss or vote on the proposal, as it is outside the principles and scope of the bill adopted at the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u15	Mr. Kanev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! I withdraw the texts adopted by the Commission outside the scope of the original Bill as they will be introduced into a separate bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u17	Are we to understand that this is your proposal for a new Paragraph 2 and 3? On all three paragraphs, you withdraw the proposals? Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Moving on to § 1 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u18	Under § 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva, made in accordance with Article 1. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 40 is amended as follows: Art. 40 (1) The Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture and Food, shall adopt a National Programme for the Management of the Population of Casual Dogs in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall issue a regulation implementing the National Programme and the procedures for its implementation, the financing and accountability mechanism. (3) The municipal councils shall adopt a programme for the implementation of the National Programme and a plan of action of the respective municipality, which shall comply with the requirements of the ordinance under para. 2. (4) The mayors of municipalities shall organise the implementation of the Programme and the plan under para. 3 and annually by 1 March they shall submit a report on the implementation of the Programme to the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. (5) The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall submit to the Council of Ministers an annual report on the implementation of the National Programme by 30 April. (6) The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Veterinary Union and the Organisations for the Protection of Animals, registered under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, whose statutes provide for an activity for the protection of animals, shall participate in the preparation of the National Programme and of the Regulation under para. 2. (7) The authorities of the executive power and the organizations under para. 6 assist local self-government bodies in the implementation of the National Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u19	Paragraph 1 statements, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! My proposal is for § 1 to be voted in the version of the importer and not in the amendments made to the Commission, mainly on argument from art. 40, para. 3 of the Commission's edited proposal, where municipal councils are proposed to adopt their own programme for the implementation of the National Programme and the requirement to issue a regulation for the implementation of the National Programme is dropped. I believe that there is a prerequisite for serious contradictions between municipal and national programmes for the management of the population, and even more when the requirement to adopt a regulation is dropped, even in the event of such a contradiction, municipal programmes could not be appealed even because of non-compliance with the regulation approving the National Programme. I believe that this will seriously dispel the limits of responsibility, create conditions for chaos and contradiction between the various municipal programs, and here I would like to stress that there is one peculiarity in stray dogs that they do not know the boundary between the different municipalities in Bulgaria and are difficult to comply with the differences in the different municipal programs. So the main idea of the original Draft Law, its crab legis, to create a single national programme, is seriously threatened by the adoption of this version. My proposal is to reject the Commission's version and vote for an importer under the Council of Ministers' text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u21	Replices to Mr. Kanev? I won't. Do other MPs want to participate in the debate? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mr. Kanev's procedural proposal to reject the version of Paragraph 1 of the Commission on its report. 90 MPs voted: 15 against 13, 62 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 1 for changes to art. 40 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 88 against 1, abstention 3. Paragraph 1 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u22	According to § 2 there is a proposal of MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Georgi Bozhinov. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2. "2." In the creations art. 40b: (a) point 2 - dropped out; b) points 3 and 4 become points 3 and 4 respectively. 2 and 3. Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Hristov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: § 2. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 40a and 40b: Art. 40a. (1) The national programme for the control of the population of stray dogs in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be based on the following principles: 1. achieving a healthy environment for the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria and improving animal welfare; 2. management and reduction of the population of stray dogs effectively through mass castration. (2) The national programme for the control of the population of stray dogs in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall contain: 1. objectives and tasks; 2. assessment of the state and dynamics of the population of stray dogs; 3. measures to control and control the population of stray dogs by castration; 4. measures to support the construction of regional shelters for stray dogs; 5. measures to control breeders, dog dealers, animal markets, pet shops and dogs grown as escorts; 6. requirements for the management, coordination, control and implementation of the programme; 7. requirements for management and evaluation of the programme, reporting and reporting, notification to the public; 8. expected results; 9. monitoring of the environment through performance indicators; 10. corrective actions to detect discrepancies in the implementation of the programme; 11. other measures and activities related to t. 1-10. Art. 40b. The implementation of the activities under the National Programme for Management of the population of stray dogs in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is funded by: 1. the state budget; 2. the municipal budget; 3. donations from natural and legal persons; 4. International programmes and projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u23	Statements, coworkers? Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u24	Madam President, honourable Members! We have two proposals on this paragraph from which one has been withdrawn. It is also a matter of a withdrawn proposal which, however, has found its place in the Commission's version. We are talking about the National Programme for the Management of the Population of Casual Dogs, where measures are being proposed to support the construction of regional shelters for stray dogs. We withdrew the proposal and this is our request as a result of the debate that was held in the Commission and with representatives of various organisations, especially from the non-governmental sector, which stressed that when building regional shelters, the first thing that will happen is that it is a huge financial resource will be aimed not at mastering and measures to stop the population of stray dogs, but at building different facilities that will not have any benefit to the implementation of the Law. The second motive that I and we accept is that the representatives that we have tabled the Bill and these proposals will have absolutely no control, as regional shelters will be in a different or far away territory from the specific place of the municipality and this will create prerequisites for really not having control. So I'm holding the withdrawn proposal with the point. 4 in the version of the Commission shall be dismissed. The other proposal that was not accepted is related to the implementation of the National Programme for Population Management. It is written that the funds to be provided for the implementation of the National Programme are provided by the state budget, the municipal budgets are included. I understand that municipalities that have a significant financial resource will probably have no problem providing funding for the National Programme on the ground, but there are many municipalities that have absolutely no financial opportunity to implement the Programme and therefore apply the measures required for the implementation of this Programme. Therefore, our proposal in the financing is to raise a municipal budget and the state budget, according to the framework adopted in the National Programme, to ensure the financing of the main activities that are laid down for the implementation of the Programme. I believe that in this way we will indeed have a working Law in which the commitments of the state and of the Council of Ministers with the adoption of the Programme will create prerequisites to be a Programme that will be implemented and implemented precisely those directions and policies that aim to change the Law. Otherwise, we accept that a national programme is needed. The Council of Ministers adopts this National Programme, but its funding is one of the elements to which we believe particular attention should be paid and the municipalities should not be burdened with such responsibilities and provide a budget for its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u25	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. [[Definitions between President Dimitar Glauchev and the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova.]] - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, in the course of the Commission's work, the proposal was withdrawn by Prof. Bachvarova, but subsequently in the vote on the text proposed by the Commission in full for the whole paragraph, the text remained. I would like to emphasise that § 2, Art. 40, para. 4 has been voted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u27	Any other lines? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose from the Commission's version to drop art. 40a, para. 2, p. 4: The measures to assist in the construction of regional shelters for stray dogs. Here I share very much the reasonable arguments of Mrs. Bachvarova, which she has just put forward. I'd like to make a few short arguments myself. Firstly, the systematic place of this text, if there is a solution to building regional shelters, is not here. This is not an element of the strategy to control the population of stray dogs. The shelters generally do not control the population. Secondly, there is a detailed framework in the current Law, in the current text of the Law, starting from the next text. 41, which remains unchanged in this text. The vote on the text on regional shelters will lead to severe work difficulties instead of ease. Under the Act in force in texts that we are not currently changing, there is a series of responsibilities of the mayors of municipalities associated with municipal shelters. No idea how these responsibilities will relate to regional shelters. They are therefore in serious conflict with a series of good and reasonable provisions of the current Law, whose implementation will be very difficult. Next, it is not clear who will be responsible for regional shelters. We cannot simply accept text about their construction, without it being clear who will finance them from now on, who will assume all the responsibilities that the municipal authorities currently have towards municipal shelters. In conclusion, it is the impression that we are simply in a hurry to adopt a text to start boiling construction activities and to start to absorb some money! I think it is unwise to remain that impression in society, and not God forbid, to really go down this path to spend some big money, then instead of improving the work on controlling the population and solving the problem of stray dogs, to make it difficult and plunged into chaos and lack of responsibility. I think it is reasonable to reject this text, and if, at the next stage, someone has a detailed and reasonable idea of how regional shelters should be managed and how they can contribute more than the existing municipal shelters, then we can discuss it in its systematic integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Georgi Bojinov, which in one part is supported, I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported part on this. 2. Please vote on the part of the Parliamentary Assembly's proposal not supported by the Commission. [[Declarations between President Dimitar Glauchev and the rapporteur Rumen Hristov.]] Vote 78 MPs: 24, against 12, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm making a proposal for technical editing. The words of the owners of the dogs are missed. It's about t. Art. 5 of § 2, Art. 40a, para. 2: It's five o'clock. measures for control of breeders, dog dealers, animal markets, pet shops and dogs is now the text, and we propose to add: The word "owners" has been omitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u31	After that, does the text continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u32	Yes, then continues the same text
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u33	The words are added after the shopkeepers, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u34	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u35	I put to the vote the proposals made by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Radan Kanev for dropping the item. 4 in para. 2 of art. 40a. Please vote. They voted 87 MPs: 31, against 21, abstention 35. The proposals have not been accepted. I am now voting on the proposal made by the MP Rumen Hristov from the parliamentary tribune. 5 after the store and add the words the owners of the shop. The sentence then goes on to be "dogs" grown as escorts; "dogs." Please vote on the proposal as presented to you. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is unanimous. Point 5 reads as follows: It's five o'clock. control measures for breeders, dog dealers, animal markets, pet shops and dog owners kept as escorts; I am now voting all § 2, as presented to you in the Commission report, together with the newly adopted editorial proposal by the MP Rumen Hristov. Vote 89 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 9. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted. Paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u36	The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. Article 3 is replaced Art. 40c. The measures to control the population and veterinary treatment of stray dogs shall be carried out in registered veterinary medicinal ambulators and the animal shall be granted a stay for recovery of not less than 24 hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u37	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with its corresponding content on the report. Vote 91 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 3. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u38	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41, para. 1 words "al." 2 and 4' are replaced by "al'. 4 and 6
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u39	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which is supported by the Commission and after its amendment becomes § 4 in its report. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u40	Next are proposals from the MPs Radan Kanev and Rumen Hristov, who are withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Radan Kanev and Rumen Hristov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 3. Paragraph 4. Proposal from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dobrin Danev and Georgi Bozhinov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. Article 69 is amended as follows: Art. 69. Mayor of the municipality who does not organize the implementation of the programme and the plan under art. 40, para. 3, shall be punished with a fine of 1000 to 2000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement the fine shall be of double size.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u41	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4, which is supported and edited by the Commission, and shall become § 5 in its report. Vote 85 MPs: for 82, against 3, no abstentions. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u42	Proposal from the MPs Radan Kanev and Rumen Hristov: screated § 4a: .................................................................................. In § 1 of the Additional Provisions, a new item is created. 10a: 10a. "Castration Center" is a veterinary institution within the meaning of art. 26, t. 1 and 2 of the Animal Health Act. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u43	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Radan Kanev and Rumen Hristov, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u44	They voted 84 MPs: 24, against 18, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u45	Proposal from the MPs Radan Kanev and Rumen Hristov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... Paragraph 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u46	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 in the version which has been reported by the President of the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u47	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u48	We are voting § 7 on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 81, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u49	The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... Paragraph 17 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Animals (Art. 92 of 2011) canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u50	Statements? I won't. We are voting a new § 8 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u51	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u52	We vote. Vote 81 MPs: 80 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u53	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in a new § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u54	We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 78 MPs: 76, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u55	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... The programme to control the population of stray dogs adopted by the respective municipal council until the entry into force of this law applies until the adoption of a programme under art. 40, para. 3, in so far as it is not contrary to the National Programme for the Management of the Population of Casual Dogs on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u56	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 9 in the version and numbering of the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u57	Under § 8 there is a proposal from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva, made in accordance with the order. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... (1) Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, the Council of Ministers shall adopt a National Programme for the Management of the Population of Casual Dogs in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) By 31 December 2016, the Minister of Agriculture and Food shall issue the ordinance under art. 40, para. 2. (3) Within 6 months after the adoption of the National Programme for the Management of the Population of Casual Dogs on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, municipal councils shall accept the programs and plans under art. 40, para. 3................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u58	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8, which is supported by the Commission and edited by it, and becomes § 10 in its report. We are voting § 10 on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 1. Paragraph 10 of the Commission report has been adopted. Next is a proposal by the MPs Radan Kanev and Rumen Hristov, which was withdrawn from the parliamentary platform, and with this the bill was adopted at second reading. The next item on the agenda is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR Customs. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce to you the President of the Commission the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I ask for a procedure to vote in the Chamber to be admitted Mr. Kiril Ananiev.. Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova. Director of the Department of Tax Policy.. Ms. Desislava Trifonova, Ms. Rosalia Dimitrova. Director of Customs Agency........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u60	We are voting on the proposal made by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for admission in the Chamber of the persons designated by her. Please vote. Vote 71 MPs: for 69, against 1, abstention 1. Please invite the faces to the hall. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u61	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Customs Act, No 602-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2016. At a meeting held on 14 April 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act, No 602-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2016. The bill was presented by Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance. The amendment and the Appendix to the Customs Act is dictated by the need to bring national legislation into line with Union customs legislation and to refine the provisions in order to facilitate their practical application. In this respect, Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 October 2013 laying down the Union Customs Code, which entered into force on 30 October 2013; Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2015/2446 of 28 July 2015 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for certain provisions of the Union Customs Code, published on 29 December 2015, p. Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2015 laying down detailed rules for the application of certain provisions of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the Union Customs Code. The main proposals for amendments to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act are as follows: bringing national legislation into line with the regulations in the customs legislation of the Union and clarifying the provisions for the facilitation of their practical application; facilitating the activity of economic operators and reducing the administrative burden provided for by the notary certification of signatures to be required only in cases where a natural person represents another natural person before the customs authorities. For the purpose of procedural economy and increased efficiency of work, the competence of the customs authorities in the issuing of decisions is explicitly defined. In this way, economic operators will initially know where to apply for their decision and who is the competent authority to issue it. A new opportunity for service of the decisions under the Law is also introduced. The administrative criminal provisions have been revised in order to speed up administrative criminal proceedings, efficiency and timely recovery of public public public claims. In relation to the transitional measures for the periods necessary for Member States to develop or adapt customs electronic systems, in order to ensure by 31 December 2020 at the latest the necessary level of exchange of information between customs administrations and economic operators, as well as between customs administrations of Member States and the European Commission, the Bill provides for transitional provisions providing for the processing of applications, as well as for the submission and processing of declarations to be used paper-based forms and existing national systems. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held. Members of the Budget and Finance Committee have expressed principled support for such proposed Draft. After a discussion was held, which ended with the following results: 10 votes for....... no...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, the debate is open. Members of parliament who wish to participate in it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, the majority of us or perhaps everyone thinks that the points that contain the amendment proposal are mainly related to EU directives. I agree with this, but do you know, colleagues, very often the European Union has no real idea of the social and economic situation of the Bulgarians, especially in recent times? I think that the issue of customs and, above all, the issue of the budget of smuggling, which in the last year has become particularly popular in the media space, thanks mostly to the Prime Minister, I think it deserves more attention in general than the Bulgarian society and the distribution deserves more transparency in general. The proposed changes thus relate, of course, to European Union directives which concern different administrative procedures and so on. There are two points, in my opinion, on which adjustments could be made, to make a change in them in the interests of society as a whole. For example, § 78 for Art. 239, para. 4, quote:.. The goods seized and abandoned in favour of the State under this Law, for which there is a declaration of the intellectual property right holder that they were produced without his consent or permission, are destroyed by the customs authorities. That's been the practice ever since. There is only a slight correction in the text. Colleagues, we are witnessing what the prime minister has said recently that only last year some 2.3 billion have entered the budget. lv. from smuggling. He said 50 million. lv. were given to pensioners last year for supplements, 50 million. lv. to the teachers and 100 million. lv. For highways. The other nearly 2 billion remain in the budget. Now, specifically on this point, it would probably be good to think about, the financiers would better say, in the form of the creation of some fund and something like that, but specifically about the proceeds of the goods that are confiscated and for which there is a declaration of the intellectual property right holder that they were produced without his consent, well, colleagues, now here, if it is about some goods that are worth several million or tens of millions, why would it just be destroyed? If these goods, for example, are repacked, if a similar company is hired in the industry and these goods are repacked, put a white label on them, for example:. Confiscated or something, why not put these goods on the market? Are there certain criteria, e.g. by up to 20%, no lower price, for example, than the market, in order not to beat it too much for competing companies in this area? Why should these goods, for example, not be released and some money come in from the internal market, even more than the international one? If one certification assessment is made for these goods and they meet as a quality, with standards fit and placed on them a white label Confiscated, for example, that the buyer knows that it's confiscated goods. If it is fit for use, for consumption, for implementation in certain areas of society, especially in the external market, why not let it go and put some money in the budget from it? I think this is a framework with which we are getting too tight and limited because I do not know these two and a half billion where they came from exactly, but this may also have some serious presence. So I think it would be good to discuss this with fellow financiers, perhaps in the Commission. Then we will think with our colleagues to make some proposals, because if it comes to several million or tens of millions coming in, not to burn, to dump somewhere in warehouses, to burn in furnaces just because Europe has told us, well Europe is fine, but Europe does not stand at stops in the morning and watch the poor Bulgarian eat a bath and wait for the bus. Now, with Europe, we see, we must comply, but Europe is changing every day. We must respect European values, but at the same time fight and defend our interests, which in this case would give revenue in our budget. Also by para. 5: The goods under para. 1, with the exception of tobacco, tobacco products and alcohol and alcoholic beverages, can be provided free of charge for social needs of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Education and Science and Ministry of Culture, possibly. Here I don't know why we shouldn't include a text that could be given to ministries and municipalities. Why shouldn't municipalities be allowed to receive from these confiscated goods? Municipalities are also part of the state, municipalities also bring revenue, municipalities absorb funds from European funds, municipalities apply to European funds, why not include them here?! But to go back to the main issue, which is the most important one for the 2.3 billion. BGN, which came from smuggling from customs. Colleagues, I think these contraband funds should be given greater publicity. Bulgarian municipalities must also have access to the funds from the smuggling, because today...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u64	Mr. Iliev, if you'll excuse me, we're already going into a debate on the Budget Act on how to distribute revenue in the country. You said that these funds go there, yes, but here to concentrate on the philosophy of the Bill. You rightly said it was about transposition of European norms.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u65	Yeah. In this regard, and what it corresponds to and the proposal itself, we will bear in mind to make our proposals, because we believe that when there is a change in a certain law that we comply with European directives and criteria, we must also take into account the factual situation as is in our country. Look, colleagues, the easiest thing is to make one or two changes according to the directives, but then the Bulgarian people. We must, above all, always monitor the interest of our society and synchronise it with European society. About para. 5, I don't know if this can be proposed because the text reads as follows: 1, with the exception of tobacco and tobacco products, can be provided... Why can they do that? Can't we offer it directly: they are provided...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u66	You can, Mr. Iliev, make a proposal between first and second readings, when we will specifically discuss the editing of each single text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u67	...of ministries and municipalities? Because that might make a little bit of sense. If they decide, they can give it up. But if they don't, what do they do? They deliver them to customs warehouses and then where do they go, who gets them, who distributes them, nothing is known?! We of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will make our proposals with a view to more transparency, more publicity of goods and the means of smuggling into customs. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u68	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. I understand that since you are going to make a proposal, at first reading you support the Bill. Any lines to Mr. Iliev? Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iliev, I wasn't going to give you a line, but your last closing words have provoked me to do so. For me it is unacceptable from this tribune to throw words, not to say accusations that at the moment, you see, no one knows what happens to goods in customs warehouses and for greater transparency you will make a proposal between first and second readings to be given to municipalities, ministries and so on. Make an offer, there is nothing wrong with that, we will discuss it, but here, from this tribune, to say that there is no order, that there is no accountability, that there is no clarity what happens to confiscated goods, I cannot accept it, because that is not the case. There are clearly regulated rules in the Law on how these goods are seized, reported, stored and destroyed. Because destruction is a mandatory element voted for 2013 in European Regulation No 608, and we, as members of the European Union, are obliged to apply the rules of the European Regulation directly. This is your reasoning at the beginning that European officials, that European legislation does not always meet our situation, our interests that you mentioned, I think there may be right in your words, but it is not the place of the Bulgarian Customs Act to deal with European legislation that is not appropriate to be applied to Bulgaria. It's another place, and it's in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u70	And subject to special legislation on intellectual property protection and so on. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Iliev, would you like to use it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u71	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't mean that there was no order and I didn't want to underestimate the work of all employees at the Customs Agency or at the Ministry of Finance. I meant that it is good to give greater transparency, and in the interest of more real and transparent absorption of these funds to possibly have access to the Bulgarian municipalities, not only the individual ministries. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u72	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u73	Madam President, honourable Members! With regard to the introduction and transposition of the requirements of the Customs Code Implementation Regulation, it is clear that these provisions must be introduced into the Bulgarian legislation. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the provisions that refine this legislation. This is precisely the provision relating to clarity regarding the provisions for the acquisition of non-preferred origin and the issue of certificates which, under the Regulation, may be issued by both competent authorities and authorised organisations. According to the importers and the Customs Agency, in Bulgaria it is not regulated by law or by regulation, this problem and customs administration have not delegated powers to any authority outside the customs administration, which is strange, because for years these certificates are issued by the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Bulgarian Industrial Association. The Customs Agency has controlled this process, as far as I know, and so far there has been no problem. Now, with the offer of importers, in addition to the certificates issued for the preferential certificates, such only the Customs Agency will issue for goods of non-preferred origin. This is not an increase in the powers required by the Regulation, because it allows them to be issued by external bodies and organisations, but the Customs Agency believes that this will improve the service of the business, will not result in more expenditure for the administration, which I do not agree with. These certificates would be free of charge and would protect the interest of the Bulgarian business. Maybe there's a dose of truth in that. Between first and second readings, we need to think about why not let there be competition, such as the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Commerce also have the right to issue, albeit paid, such certificates. This will improve the work of both sides. With regard to the practice in the European Union, in the reasons given by the Customs Agency, only Poland with the customs administration issues these certificates. The practice in different countries is different. For most certificates, non-preferred origin shall be issued by external organisations. Between first and second reading, we need to think about these issues and solve them in a way that is good for the state and then for business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u74	A line to Mr. Turnover? I won't. Do other MPs wish to take part in the debate? I can't see. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act, No 602-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 April 2016. Vote 84 MPs: 74, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to the next point: PROJECT FOR A DECISION WITH REGARD TO THE VALENTIAN VACATION OF THE PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTURING FOR 2016 Importers are Dimitar Glauchev, Kiril Tsochev, Krasimir Velchev and Nayden Zelenogorski. On behalf of the importers, the draft decision will present Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u75	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention: Project! DECISION in connection with the Easter Holiday of the National Assembly for 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED The Easter vacation of the National Assembly for 2016 is from 29 April to 8 May 2016 inclusive. Allow me to remind you that according to art. 43, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly are defined three holidays of the National Assembly. Two of them are listed with specific dates, while for Easter it is written only that there are ten days on Easter holidays. Parliamentary practice is for each National Assembly to define the days specifically as dates depending on when the Easter holidays are. The proposal is fully in line with the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and its failure to support it means that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are not supported. That's what we have in mind with the colleagues with whom we have made the proposal. These are the MPs Kiril Tsochev, Krasimir Velchev and Nayden Zelenogorski, including me. If the proposal is not accepted, there should be other dates or amendments to the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u76	The debate is open. Mr. Velizar Enchev has the floor. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] Colleagues, please don't make a fuss.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u77	Madam President, honourable Members! This is the third time I have stood on this platform since the beginning of this Parliament to propose a change in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly related to the Easter and Christmas holidays and, more precisely, the Easter and Christmas holidays of the Bulgarian MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u78	It's a good thing there's no change on the holidays.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u79	I hope this third time is successful. Citing to art. 43, para. 3, which states that, exceptionally, the National Assembly may decide that the holidays will be changed, I suggest... I have already proposed it and I have tabled it as a decision, but it must go through the Commission first, but I have also imported it last year, and it has not gone through the Commission again, which means that the MPs deliberately sabotage this proposal of mine and are afraid to bring it into the plenary so that the Bulgarian public will not see how we look at the people, how we look at their privileges. I repeat, referring to this article. 43, para. 3 I believe that the National Assembly may decide that the days of vacation will be changed. Isn't this my proposal accepted, and it will not be accepted, I can predict, so in advance I am asking you a series of questions which I hope one of you will answer as a reply: why do you think honourable Members are privileged to the rest of the Bulgarian people and will rest for 11 days while Bulgarian citizens will rest only until 2 May inclusive? With what is one MP more than a doctor, a teacher, a military teacher, to rest for so long? And don't you think, honourable Members, who will soon reject this proposal of mine that you are sending an extremely insulting message to the Bulgarian people................................................................................................................................................ These are the insulting messages that you will be sending to the Bulgarian people shortly when you reject for the third time this proposal of mine, which I hope the Legal Committee will finally pay attention to... Where's Mr. Kirilov? And not just to pay attention to him, but to make the decision to enter the Chamber. The fact that he will not enter the plenary again means that the Legal Commission does not want, because he fears that the Bulgarian people will not see what we think, namely you, not me, about their privileges. [[crowd cheering]] that must be removed. If someone is trying to reproach me in the line, if he decides to take account of why I am speaking like this now, as a Member of the National Assembly, I would like to remind you, honourable Members in the middle and right part of the Chamber, that I have spoken out of parliament for many years what I am talking about now here, that we cannot have privileges and that we cannot experience ourselves as God-selected patricias, but rather look at the Bulgarian people in terms of public holidays as a second category of people. Therefore, I formally propose, referring to this article, that we have the same weekends as Bulgarian citizens have, that is, that our first working day be on 3 May or more precisely 4 May this year. Thank you for your attention. I'm counting on your support, and I know I won't get it. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] But I also know that the Bulgarian people will sooner or later see who they sent to the National Assembly. He has sent people who discriminate against voters, thanks to whom you are in this Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u80	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u81	Madam President, honourable Members! Populism is a good thing. When you go to Google, however, you will find out what word populism is by deception, by striving for the love of a voter or people, but by cheating. People like that who cheat, you know what they're called. Now I won't call them by their real names. Why am I one of the importers? Because this populism we don't consider at all, and I don't think I'm more than one teacher, from a doctor. What's populism about? The idea that we have more leave than doctors and teachers. I'm going to talk to numbers and I want to tell you that for last year's vacation, collected for the whole year, it's 32 days. You know that we have about 12 extraordinary meetings, so our leave for last year is not more than 20 days... as for all other Bulgarian citizens, even many of them and civil servants have much more leave. We were just offered to come to work on May 4th and 5th. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u82	Next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u83	Next year, yeah. They're offering one year's leave, but we're not gonna agree to this thing next year. In practice, we will not have two meetings Wednesday and Thursday. And pretending to be a matter of national importance is funny, and there's no point in paying attention to it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u84	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. We are going to vote. Mr. Enchev, are you making a concrete proposal on the draft decision? You defended your proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure and rightly said that it was allocated to the Commission. On this draft decision, what do you suggest?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u85	Until May 2nd.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u86	Until May 2nd. Colleagues, I am voting on Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal for a decision to read: The Easter Holiday of the National Assembly for 2016 is from 29 April to 2 May 2016 inclusive. Voting mode. They voted 98 MPs: 15 against 48, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Draft Decision on the Easter Holiday of the National Assembly for 2016 by importers. We are voting on the draft decision on an importer in accordance with the Rules of the National Assembly. Vote 98 MPs: 92 against 3, abstention 3. The decision's been made. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE GARANTION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE BANK FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE EUROPEAN COUNCIL IN THE OFFICE OF BENEFICIENT AND THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN THE CHANCE OF GARANT. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. We're listening to Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u87	Dear Madam President, I ask for a procedure on this point in the Chamber to allow Mr. Ananiev to be admitted to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Gergana Beremska, Director, Directorate of International Financial Institutions and Cooperation at the Ministry of Finance, and Mrs. Zaharina Todorova, representative of the Bulgarian Development Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u88	Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 78 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 1. Invite the faces to the hall. Here you are, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor, No 602-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2016. At a regular meeting held on 14 April 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor, No 602-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2016. The bill was presented by Mr. Kiril Ananiev "Deputy Minister of Finance." With the decision on t. 4 of Protocol No 5 of the Council of Ministers meeting on 3 February 2016. The Council of Ministers approved the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Council of Europe Development Bank as the basis for negotiations and authorised the Minister of Finance to hold the negotiations and to sign the Agreement on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on condition of subsequent ratification. The guarantee agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe was concluded by Exchange of Letters of 24 February 2016 in Paris and 29 February 2016 in Sofia concerning the Framework Agreement on a loan between the Bulgarian Development Bank and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe for partial financing of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multifamily Buildings and was signed by Exchange of Letters on 17 February 2016 in Paris and 23 February 2016 in Sofia. The National Energy Efficiency Programme has been adopted by Decree No 18 of the Council of Ministers since 2015 and is aimed at renovating multifamily residential buildings by applying energy efficiency measures. The programme aims at reducing household electricity costs, extending the life cycle of buildings, as well as ensuring better living conditions, thermal comfort and higher quality of living environment. The main parameters of the loan from the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe are: the loan amount of EUR 150 000 000; the loan term of EUR 10 years, with a 3 years grace period; the interest rate of the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe floating or fixed; the loan is granted to instalments by 30 June 2017; the first tranche cannot be more than EUR 30 per cent of the loan, or EUR 45 000 000 000. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria The Guarantee Agreement is subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 11 votes for the Council of Europe's Development Bank and 2 votes abstentions.The Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support a first vote Draft for ratification of the guarantee agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor, No 602-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u90	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The report of the Energy Commission will introduce us to the people representative Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u91	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor, No 602-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2016. At its regular meeting held on 14 April 2016, the Energy Commission examined a bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor, No 602-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2016. The reasons for the draft law on ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Bulgarian Development Bank and the Council of Europe as beneficiary were presented by Deputy Minister of Finance Ms. Karina Karaivanova. The issue of state guarantees for financing the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme of multi-family residential buildings is in accordance with art. 73 of the State Budget Act for 2016. It provides that within the current budget year the Council of Ministers may propose to the National Assembly issuing state guarantees under new external loan agreements of the Bulgarian Development Bank up to the currency equivalent of 1 billion leva in compliance with the legislation. The guarantee agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Council of Europe Development Bank amounts to 150 million. Euros. The loan from the Bank for Development of the Council for Europe is for ten years, with a three-year grace period. The loan shall be granted in instalments at a floating or fixed interest rate and the first tranche shall not exceed 30% of the loan amount or 45 million. Euros. The period of absorption of the loan funds is until 30 June 2017. The National Energy Efficiency Programme is aimed at renovating multi-family residential buildings by applying energy efficiency measures. The programme aims at reducing electricity costs for households, extending the life cycle of buildings, as well as ensuring better living conditions, thermal comfort and a higher quality of living environment. The economic effect is in creating additional opportunities for economic activity of the business by participating in the implementation of the program throughout the country. The special effect of it is manifested by providing additional employment and hence creating more jobs. As a result of the discussion and a subsequent vote, the Energy Committee with 15 votes for the Council of Europe, 3 votes against and without abstentions, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for ratification of the guarantee agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor. No 602-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to the people's representative Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u93	Honourable President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor, No 602-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2016. At its meeting held on 13 April 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor, No 602-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Ms. Karina Karaivanova Deputy Minister, Ms. Gergana Beremska Director of the International Financial Institutions and Cooperation Directorate and Mrs. Galina Papiusheva Head of the Department of Financial Institutions and the Bulgarian Development Bank: Mr. Bilyan Balev Vice-President of the Management Board and Executive Director, Mrs. Zaharina Todorova Head of the Department of International Financial Institutions and European Funds. The bill was presented by Ms. Karaivanova, who pointed out that the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe was approved at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2016 under the conditions of subsequent ratification. The agreement provides for the Republic of Bulgaria to pay the guaranteed amounts if the Bulgarian Development Bank does not fulfil its obligation under the Framework Agreement for a loan between it and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe. The objective of the Framework Agreement is to provide a target loan of 150 million. EUR for a period of 10 years with a 3 years grace period, with the funds provided for partial financing of the National Energy Efficiency Programme aimed at renovating multifamily buildings by applying energy efficiency measures and reducing household electricity costs, extending building lifecycles, as well as ensuring better living conditions, thermal comfort and higher quality of living environment. The ratification of the Guarantee Agreement shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for the Council of Europe, without abstention and 2 votes, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the guarantee agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor, No 602-02-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u94	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't understand why we need to withdraw this loan, given that for nearly half a year the Prime Minister has been explaining how we have some huge surpluses, how hardly so well the revenue agencies work, it once is one billion, two billion, that day I heard it is three billion surplus, now we have to de facto burden the Bulgarian Development Bank to fulfill a political promise of GERB. Why is that necessary? It's okay, we have so much money, right? I think if that's the case, if it's the truth that we're overexecuting that we have one, two, three, let's have four billion, how everything goes and how we almost don't have contraband anymore, then explain to me why we have to burden the Bulgarian Development Bank?! Maybe this revenue is a statistical strategy, and we're comfortable taking it out at a certain time, but that doesn't really match the truth. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, here we are already starting to talk and vote on a new loan of approximately 1 billion. lv. This has nothing to do with those 8 billion that were before. We're talking about a new loan here! The first tranche is 150 million. The second tranche is 250 million with the European Investment Bank, if memory serves. The third will be an additional 150 million, with private banks. I ask you, perhaps Mrs. Stoyanova will answer me: what is the interest? We will now vote on a document without knowing what the interest will be. At least there's some kind of interval. It is true that there are state guarantees.. someone will say that the interest will not be high. Of course, it's great, I've also been a supporter of state guarantees. I ask: why not measure with the same archin when it comes to state guarantees for the Bulgarian Energy Holding? What more is this loan than the loan to the Bulgarian Energy Holding, on which we had to help state-owned companies borrow financial resources at a low price, and some of them even create assets? What's wrong with that? Only that this is said: no, we will by no means assist the holding company, let him deal with it himself. Here for thermal insulation we must give a state guarantee. It's no coincidence that I'm emphasising the word heat insulation. We from BSP left Bulgaria have nothing against energy efficiency and we are for the economy, all the more so when it comes to enterprises when it comes to production, when it comes to why not public buildings. But now we de facto.. as you express ourselves, and as the Prime Minister said, these people only have to clean their windows. Everything's almost free. Yeah, well, it turns out it's not free. It turns out that now an account will start to be charged that someone has to pay. And there's nothing for free, so that's when you lied to people. I really don't know what this thermal insulation is going to do. Why do I say thermal insulation? Because, ladies and gentlemen, what is being done, mostly on these buildings, is to change the windows and stick Styrofoam. That's right! If one of you tells me a residential building from which the entire block has been removed to make real energy efficiency, I'll take it back. Show me one, just like they did in East Germany, where they took out the whole block, they did absolutely everything according to European standards to get real energy efficiency. We made thermal insulation in Bulgaria. And all of a sudden, the big success and the question is, who's paying the bill? And someone's gonna have to pay for it. And this isn't about the eight billion. Here we enter a new spiral. When you talk to people, be honest. Yes, it will be paid. But, I ask, why are we burdening the Bulgarian Development Bank with a purely populist measure, instead of this bank really fulfilling its functions to assist the companies dealing with the export of Bulgarian production? For example, why not help this bank not to burden it with incentives for Bulgarian production, and we are now a state guarantee for energy efficiency? I just don't understand your suggestion. We criticized him, but most importantly the Prime Minister said the other day that there was three billion surpluses. Well, come on, get that money out of there! Take it! Why should loans be increased? So it's not true. Or is the truth that you throw dust in people's eyes and you don't tell them what the truth is or do the numbers temporarily and just show some political effect? The truth is quite different and you know it very well. The country's really going down. And most importantly, we need a really working economy. It is the main function of the Bulgarian Development Bank to support the Bulgarian enterprises and not, of course, such ideas with which you have burdened it with activities that do not exist for this bank. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There is no doubt that the problem of energy efficiency in the building fund of Bulgaria is extremely big. I'll even allow myself to give some statistics about the colleagues sitting down, pressing the buttons, and they don't know what it's about, but they're brave in speeches from the place. [[Comments from GERB: Aaaaa, no!]] According to statistics, 80 thousand multi-family buildings were built in Bulgaria in a different construction way, with the renovation process directly involving the attention of over two million Bulgarian citizens. By the way, it's about renewal, which means energy efficiency measures, but it's not just that. Total panel dwellings in Bulgaria are located in 18 900 panel blocks and 120 residential complexes in the country, and represent 40% of all dwellings, living one third of the Bulgarian population. According to an expert assessment, the housing group in three or more floor buildings in need of renovation and intervention in the next 15 years contains about 680 thousand homes, of which about 360 thousand panel, 150 thousand steel concrete and 170 thousand machine structures. These figures, as I have already told you, once again show us the significant public, social and economic interest of Bulgarian citizens in initiatives related to the renovation of this huge housing fund. I understand that colleagues from GERB, leading their beginnings since mid-2005, believe that everything starts from them. Not to mention the party president, who is considered the alpha and omega of everything under the sun, but still Bulgaria has existed before you, colleagues! And the problems with energy efficiency have also been of our attention far before your appearance on the political stage. Why would I say that? Because the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multi-family residential buildings, if this can at all be a program, what you have done, developed by the GERB government, is not in line with already adopted decisions of the Council of Ministers, and supposedly there should be consistency in politics, as I told you, in something that is extremely important. What are these decisions that you have not complied with at all? This is, first, the National Housing Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by Decision No 395 of 14 May 2004 of the Council of Ministers. Just because she was before you doesn't mean you shouldn't know her. National programme for renovation of residential buildings in the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by Decision of the Council of Ministers of 20 January 2005. A strategy for financing the insulation of buildings to achieve energy efficiency and a plan-programme for its implementation, adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers of 14 July 2005. All these programmes and strategic documents were made with analyses, estimates for achieving an optimal result, invested funds, achieved effects and plans for implementation by priorities! Among other things, let's say that you didn't know about these, but now we have adopted an Energy Efficiency Act and your program, which we call a program, so that there may still be some name, for energy efficiency, is not in line with the current Energy Efficiency Act. What you are proposing, I would like to ask you which of the three national plans provided for in the Energy Efficiency Act and which one is co-related to the National Plan for Zero Consumption Buildings, is the National Plan for the Improvement of Energy Characteristics of Buildings State Property, or the National Plan for the Promotion of Investments for the Implementation of Measures for the Improvement of Energy Characteristics of Buildings from the Public and Private National Housing Fund and the Commercial Building Fund, respectively, are members of 26, 27 and 28 of the Effective Efficiency Act? What plan are you taking him to what we're doing? What are we gonna do to finance? What have you got? Because, fellow Members, what you are declaring as an absolute priority for energy efficiency is not knowing what energy efficiency means. Energy efficiency is not isolation, and it's not just dograms. These are some good ways to achieve some external results and, perhaps, an aesthetic improvement of the relevant blocks, but does not lead to large savings. Energy efficiency is a complex of all measures. By the way, in the reports you have read, one of the objectives of this programme is to extend the duration of the buildings concerned. How do you extend it? Where are the structural changes, improvements and others to be financed? It's not in your program! That's not in the funding! At the moment, you glue insulation on some compromised structures and it becomes so that the insulation will hold the structure instead of the other way around. And for all this misunderstanding, excuse me, you want us to draw a billion levs and give a government guarantee! Colleagues, give this state guarantee to BEH to withdraw the loan to deal with the U.S. power stations! Get her over there! Don't give it up for things that won't do any good except that a couple of nearby companies will be able to do some work and get some money that they can then distribute along the chain! There will be no result of this program. Among other things, where is solidarity?! Why should all Bulgarian people, who will hardly be able to benefit from this Programme, because, as you can see, the numbers of 1 billion are absolutely insufficient for such a solution, will have to pay?! Because we're all gonna pay for the loan, but we're not all gonna take advantage of it. Why, for example, would Grandma Henna from some village have to pay someone in Sofia for her building being fixed?! Where is justice, where is sociality, where is everyone's responsibility to the budget?! The last thing I want to ask you, fellow Members, is this. I'm sure you'll vote on this thing. You can't not vote on it, because otherwise you're gonna jam it, you've got nothing to digest, and you've got nothing to distribute. Finally, however, when you draw the line, will the results you will achieve be even worse than the situation is now?! Because when prioritizing buildings you could pay attention above all to those who were built in a period of older construction, pay attention and start energy efficiency, combined with improving the building fund in those places where there were earthquakes and where people still live in the so-called temporary buildings, not to say wagons. Among other things, you will achieve something that is hardly good for the Bulgarians! The buildings for which energy efficiency measures are being implemented are currently in the lower column of the energy use class C. With the measures to place insulations and dograms you will raise them in the middle or upper part of the class "C" but they will continue to be in the class "C." In principle, these buildings, if funding from European and state funds is not used, could be exempt from tax buildings. With what you do, not only will you spend money, not only will everyone pay for this small part of the buildings, but also the people who have the right to be exempt from tax will not be exempt and will have to pay this property tax. Therefore, colleagues, we cannot support anything that will neither lead to a better quality of people's lives, nor will it manage to fix our energy efficiency, nor will it meet any of the criteria of the Energy Efficiency Act! The only result is that the Bulgarian will be charged with an additional 1 billion, and it will be absorbed by companies close to you! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u98	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u99	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will start my speech from there. It is very nice to talk about strategies, plans, how many documents we have accepted in our desire to make our surroundings more energy efficient, industry, residential buildings, but really we need action! Before the National Energy Efficiency Programme starts, let's do a retrospective of where we were with the plans that the talkers talked about. Donikod, to zero! Why? During the last programming period under the Regional Development Programme, multi-family residential buildings have been able to benefit from co-financing under the Structural Funds. If you remember, at first it was 25% free, 75% was covered by people living in these buildings. What did you get? Nothing! People didn't show much interest. The program then changed, changed the criteria, enabled not 25 but 50% to be awarded with the idea of more people taking advantage and giving a greater breath. Turns out that's not enough either. Why am I saying this thing? Because when we agreed to create the Energy Efficiency Program, excluding the populist talk of the pre-speakers, we are in a serious critical situation, I would say. Why? Because for those 80,000 blocks that we're talking about, each one of those living in them, someone has made thermal insulation, someone has made other improvements to their apartment, but ultimately the total effect is none! Because, first of all, these buildings certainly need to create passports, to see if there is a constructive need somewhere to strengthen the building. Many of them are carried out outside the operational shelf life. Therefore, by creating this Programme, we made it clear that, yes, it is on the principle of a solidarity model. It is true that some people will benefit from the model, and the program will be at the expense of the whole society. But I will correct those who speak: there is no free thing! In principle, there is no concept of free. The government's job is to distribute public resources. One option is to distribute them into senseless projects, such as NPP Belene, such as Tsank Stone, where 1 billion went, but without any visible effect! The other option is to go to these people. How GERB companies would manage and earn orders is absolutely not serious! Dozens and hundreds of companies are needed to create and build such a system of work. It is very ridiculous, populist and cheap to say that GERB companies would manage and work on these buildings. By creating the program, we chose the option for it to be a grant at the first stage. Given that there are already nearly 1500-1600 contracts signed, if memory serves, the real effect of the program will be seen. My request is to those who spoke before me. When the Programme for these blocks starts to happen, there will be an audit, there will be a passportation, specific energy efficiency measures are envisaged to reach a level of class C and there will be constructive measures. It was not right to say that there would be no such constructive measures. There are permissible constructive measures to be implemented if necessary. Check carefully the criteria and eligibility of what can and cannot be done in these buildings. The point to be free of charge at the first stage and to seek some co-financing at the second stage is precisely to see what the effect is. To see that through this program the consumption of electricity and heat will drop significantly. Seeing the examples from the neighboring block, more interest and greater, better collaboration among those living in these buildings can emerge, because this is one of the most serious problems, even though the large percentage was unmatched. In principle, my understanding is that there should be co-financing. I believe that this must happen in the future. We live in an economy and a country where private property is inviolable. Anyone who owns private property has rights and obligations. It is his duty to maintain the building in the kind necessary for it and to make improvements at the expense of his budget. I hope in the next period what will be expected is to have co-financing. It hasn't been specified yet, but there will certainly be one. I sincerely hope that this Programme will end with a successful conclusion. The money that we were talking about was this 1 billion, which is currently to be spent and is to be ratified in stages by the National Assembly, is voted in the 2016 budget. It is not money that we have just now decided to give and the state to give guarantees to the Development Bank. This is money that we voted on at the end of last year and should be spent. I hope when the program is over and you see the effect of it, that even you will have nothing to say! In addition to energy efficiency, we need to think about these 80,000 buildings, which must certainly be passported and their necessary structural reinforcements are made. Very far from the truth is the statement that energy efficiency is thermal insulation. There's no such thing! There is a class "C" that needs to be achieved through energy efficiency measures. They're embedded in the building's surveillance report. This must be the end effect! Let us refrain from such populist statements as how we lied to people that it was free. There's no free stuff. The state isn't some humorous cow who gives money for anything. This is money that the taxpayer makes with his work annually. It is a matter of the government's responsibility how it will spend this money. We have chosen exactly the model that will get to people the directest, will have the most direct effect, not only will these people improve their energy efficiency, but that tens and hundreds of companies will participate in the process. There will be creation of new jobs, i.e. greater employment, better consumption, increased consumption, increased purchasing power of these people. The properties after these measures will become more valuable, more expensive. I don't see anything wrong with that. You were supposed to be a social party, rather you should have been the initiator of such measures, and in the years you were only talking about strategies, but you gave billions for energy projects without absolutely no economic benefit for the country. Last term, because you're talking about transparency, you gave away $500 million. If you show me where the 500 million went and you talk about transparency, exactly in the Programme for Promotion of Consumption, of Investment? It turns out you speak well here, but practically there are naked promises and money in the wind. This is what you have done in the last years that you are talking about that the world has not started with GERB and will not end. Yes, it is, a fact! However, we have decided and have taken the responsibility to go in this direction to start with free financing of the buildings, then to seek co-financing from the people living in the buildings in order to achieve a real effect that will be obvious to everyone. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u100	- What's the line? Mr. Stoyev, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Nenkov, let us not talk about energy projects, because the arbitration is not over yet. Just to say that your government accepted invoices and equipment for this arbitration. Secondly, about what is said about the 500 million, I can assure you that to this day, the sites on which the Prime Minister cuts the ribbons in Ruse, in Dupnitsa, in Burgas, in Varna are absolutely there. Third, I don't understand why we're talking about populism. On the contrary, we say the following: if there are three billion surpluses, right, or are you going to disprove the prime minister, is any of you daring to disprove him, why is this loan being drawn? So there's some kind of delusion, or people are lying! The fourth thing we want to say. Of course we're for energy efficiency, but you tell people it's free! Since then, we have stated that it is not free, and that is why we have told you that you are making populism, not us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u102	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u103	Mr. Nenkov, you threw another straw into the fire of ignorance. In addition to using Jordano Bruno's words to the old lady who threw wood at his pyre: O, sancta simplicatas, I have nothing more to say to you. I'm going to try to get you back to things that are absolutely untrue. What I have said to you as plans and strategies that we have made, thanks to the financial resources allocated in the period 2005 - 2009 to investigate buildings, municipal and state property, to investigate small and medium-sized enterprises and these audits - have given you the opportunity in your mandate to implement the energy efficiency programmes and under the Regional Development Programmes (Regional Development) and the Competitiveness Programme, because these audits were a binding document and were financed by the budget. So don't say that we just wrote plans and programs and didn't do anything. Unlike you, we have a consistent policy and we do not believe that it all starts with us. It is also nice not to think that it all begins with you, because those who think so do not end well end with themselves very soon. Be consistent in politics in Bulgaria, learn from mistakes, but watch these things that are good. Otherwise, you will continue to believe that you are doing something good, and finally, when you are saying that we hope that you will, you will remain with some hopes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u104	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u105	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am very far from the view that something is beginning. A moment ago, I said in my speech that nothing starts and does not end with GERB. I mentioned very precisely that there is nothing wrong with these strategies. Quite objectively, I said that regardless of this, we have come to such a development, which gives us reason to worry that things are not going in the right direction. Otherwise, it's nice to talk about strategies and plans, but in the end, someone has to take responsibility. Mr. Stoynev, free of charge, will be for the people who will actually benefit from the service, the opportunity that gives them the program. And I just said that you didn't hear me say that that money was from the taxpayer. Yes, there is a little bit of the principle of the solidarity model, and I said very precisely that I believe that we should have co-financing. First of all, private property means having rights and obligations, and duty is part of these things. You misunderstand me. I just said this program was necessary and should have happened a long time ago. Other countries for which you are setting an example - Germany is a wealthy country - can afford much more - it can carry people out of homes, do if you will, and two new blocs, not one. However, we live in our terms, with our possibilities, which are much more limited. Against this background, we have foreseen this 1 billion in the 2016 budget to be spent precisely with these measures. You will see and I am convinced that more and more people will benefit and want to participate in the Programme. Mr. Ermenkov, I'll finish my coat with this. When a person starts insulting colleagues and behaves indecently towards them, he does not respect them, firstly, there is no one to respect us outside this building and, secondly, means that you do not have enough solid arguments to defend your thesis. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u106	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. Whole parliamentary groups are absent. I put to the first vote the bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor. Vote 79 MPs: 67 against 9, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u107	Madam President, I ask you to put to the vote the procedure to vote on the ratification bill and at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u108	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mrs. Stoyanova's procedural proposal and for a second vote in a plenary session of this Law on ratification. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. Vote 82 MPs: 71, against 10, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u109	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor A single member. The guarantee agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor, concluded by Exchange of Letters of 24 February 2016 and 29 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u110	Statements for a second vote? I won't. I put to the second vote the Bill for ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor. Vote 82 MPs: 71, against 10, abstention 1. The ratification bill was also voted on at second reading. Colleagues, after 30 minutes of interruption, at 12:00 we will continue with the first vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Penal Code, points 6 and 7 are for tomorrow, if there is still time, we will continue with the second vote on the Draft Law for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Legislative Acts. Abort until 12:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u111	The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the hall the time for rest is over. Honourable Members, the meeting is continuing. The next item is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. Importers: Valentin Radev and a group of MPs. The reports of the committees to which the bill is allocated are presented. These are: the Committee on Legal Affairs as the lead, and the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. With the report on the first vote of the Legal Committee, Mrs. Alexandrova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u112	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Penal Code, No 654-01-44, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 25 March 2016. At its meeting held on 6 April 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Law supplementing the Penal Code, No 654-01-44, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 25 March 2016. The draft Law supplementing the Criminal Code proposes the introduction of qualified formations of crimes under art. 337 "339" of the Criminal Code when the subject of the crimes is cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines. The higher amount of penalties for carrying out cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines activities in violation of the legal requirements compared to conventional ammunition and weapons shall be offered in view of their specificity. In view of the lack of effectiveness in the application of the provision of para. 6 in art. 13 of the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles introduced by the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on their Destruction, its annulment is proposed. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 9 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill supplementing the Penal Code, No 654-01-44, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 25 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u113	Thank you. We will now hear the report from the Defence Committee. Mr. Mihov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Penal Code, No 654-01-44, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 25 March 2016. In open court a regular meeting held on 7 April 2016 the Defence Committee discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Penal Code, No 654-01-44, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 25 March 2016. The meeting was attended by 13 MPs from the Defence Committee. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Valentin Radev. In the presentation of the reasons, he stressed that the additions to the Criminal Code incriminate the implementation of any actions with cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines outside the scope of the authorisation granted or without such authorisation. Such regulation is necessary in order to comply with the requirements of the conventions entering into force for the Republic of Bulgaria and to introduce criminal sanctions for carrying out activities with cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines. The proposals are for the creation of qualified compositions of the crimes under art. 337 "339" of the Criminal Code, with their corresponding penalties, which should be higher than those designated for conventional ammunition and weapons. The Law on the Implementation of the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on their Destruction has proposed an amendment in art. 13 of the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, adding a new para. 6. In trying to apply this norm of this new para. 6 negative results have been obtained and its removal and deletion from that Law is proposed. In the discussion on the proposed amendments to the Penal Code and the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles took part the MPs Angel Naydenov, Yanko Yankov and Miho Mihov. They united around the opinion that the penalties were increased due to the danger of using these ammunition for terrorist activities and the high risk of doing so. After hearing the reasons and speeches, 13 MPs took part in the vote. With 10 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, a bill supplementing the Penal Code, No 654-01-44, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 25 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u115	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. He'll be presented by Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u116	Dear Mr. President, colleagues: I will introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Penal Code, No 654-01-44, submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 25 March 2016. At a regular meeting held on 13 April 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Penal Code submitted by Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs on 25 April 2016. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Interior The bill to supplement the Penal Code was presented by the MP Valentin Radev. In his statement he stressed that the adoption of the Law on the Implementation of the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Storage, Production and Transfer of Anti-personnel Mines and on their Destruction introduced imperative rules which provide for a ban on carrying out activities, with the exception of those authorised by virtue of the Convention on Cassette Munitions, which entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria on 1 October 2011. The Law introduces an imperative ban on carrying out any activities, with the exception of those authorised under the Convention on Munitions and the Convention on Anti-personnel Mines, with cluster ammunition, explosive elements which are specially designed to be dispersed or released from dispersal devices for which a special authorisation regime is provided. In this way, the gap in the regulations regarding specific military and explosive mines, ammunition, anti-personnel mines was completed. In accordance with the rules adopted in the Law implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention prohibiting the use, storage, production and transfer of landmines and their destruction, we shall submit a proposal to supplement the Criminal Code with the creation of qualified groups of criminal offences under art. 337 "339' and corresponding penalties consistent with the penalties in force in those criminal groups. We believe that the penalty for carrying out activities with cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines, in view of their specificity and character, should be higher than those defined for conventional ammunition and weapons. The bill was supported by the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Head of the Cos Office Mr. Angelov and Mr. Kolimechkov from the Ministry of Defence. The President of the Commission Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, who noted that the criminalisation of activities which are socially dangerous, committed in violation of the existing standards on cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines, is imperative. At the same time, he stressed that in the main texts of art. 337, para. Art. 1, art. 338, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 339, para. 1 should be supplemented by "destroying' in order to carry out and for this publicly dangerous act relevant criminal liability. After the discussion, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 15 votes for the Criminal Code, No 654-01-44, submitted by Valentin Radev and a group of MPs on 25 March 2016..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u117	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Radev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You heard the general things in the report. In my motives for the proposed addition to the Penal Code, I will address only a few things. As you know, in December last year, we adopted the Law implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention prohibiting the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines and their destruction. Then the lawyers told us that the changes to the penal part of this bill are not good to be adopted with such a bill, but to be separate, with changes to the Penal Code. That's why we're bringing it in now. These changes concern, as colleagues have said, three members. One detail. We propose an increase in penalties if someone allows himself to use cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines outside of what is permitted in this Bill, that is, beyond the purpose of their destruction, which allows transport, import, export and transfer, to be punished with a higher penalty, on average from one to three years of the currently existing prison penalties in the Penal Code. That's the shade. The second part of this addition is that we propose to cancel para. Article 6 13 of the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives, and pyrotechnic articles, which has been ascribed for half a year, but it turned out that it has not produced a positive result. We're suggesting she gets out of the law. Alinea states that persons authorised to produce ammunition may only carry out utilisation of their ammunition. There are no such ammunition in Bulgaria. Maybe 92% of the ammunition was not produced by Bulgarian companies. So we suggest dropping this paragraph, which was then adopted under pressure mainly from the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u119	Thank you, Mr. Radev. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The patriotic front will support this bill at least because we have an extremely consistent position in terms of the utilisation and destruction of cluster ammunition and anti-personnel mines. We have stated our strong position in this direction.. We are against the import of such ammunition. At the same time, we cannot help but support the increase of the penalty for such violations. The issue is principled, although in terms of dropping out of para. 6 Even if it makes sense, it had a restraining character from the point of view that it did not allow promiscuity of this type of ammunition. Specially for the removal of para. 6 We will also consider whether the second vote will actually drop, or whether it will stay. I repeat: Mr. Radev is probably right that many of these ammunition are not the production of Bulgarian producers, but many of these ammunition are imports. Departure of para. 6, by taking a criminal responsibility, it gives the green light on mysterious roads to be imported, utilized, destroyed in the territory of Bulgaria of new quantities of ammunition, which I do not know is the best and most correct solution. First, because I repeat: through these ammunition Bulgaria becomes an easy target of terrorist organizations. Unfortunately, the security in this direction is extremely low. If by taking a criminal responsibility, removing para. 6 in the Munition Act, there is a danger, again I say: to load Bulgarian warehouses of companies that do not have the capacity, there are no trained staff. Unfortunately, no one controls the preparation of these personnel, which shows that the activity of utilization of ammunition is dangerous in general. For the rest, purely in principle, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u121	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other Members of Parliament wishing to take part in the deliberations? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Penal Code, No 654-01-44, submitted by Valentin Radev and a group of MPs. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. The bill was voted at first reading. Points 6 and 7 of our programme are scheduled for tomorrow, respectively. 1 et c. 2. Now we're going to debate and vote: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR NORMATE DECISIONS. Report for the second vote of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mr. Kirilov. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u122	Thank you, Madam President. On 1 September 2015, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts, No 502-01-74. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u123	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u124	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 1 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u125	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 1 by importer. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u126	A proposal by the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev is created § 1a: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as 1. a new para is created. 2: If the law contradicts the Constitution, the judicial authorities shall not apply it, but shall apply the Constitution. 2. The Previous Al. 2 and 3 become respectively. 3 and 4. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u127	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's proposal "The Commission does not support this proposal." Vote 85 MPs: 5 against 36, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u128	The Commission proposes to create a new § 1. ................................................................................... Article 17 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u129	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with content on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u130	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2. ..................................................... Article 1 is inserted in Chapter 1. 18a and 18b: Art. 18a. A prior impact assessment shall be carried out in the preparation of a draft regulatory act and public consultations shall be conducted with citizens and legal entities under Chapters 2 and 3. Art. 18b. (1) The results of the implementation of a regulatory act shall be verified by a follow-up impact assessment. (2) On the basis of the verification, if necessary, a revocation, amendment or addition of the regulatory act shall be proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u131	Are there any speeches, colleagues? There aren't any. We are voting § 2 in the version of the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 82, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u132	Under § 3 there is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: supposed to be a member of the Board of The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in a new § 5. There is a proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, made in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. A new Chapter 2 with new Articles 19 to 23: "Chapter 2" Assessment of the impact of regulatory acts Art. 19. (1) The compiler of a draft regulatory act shall carry out an assessment of the impact of the regulatory act where this is provided for in this law. (2) The impact assessment shall be preliminary and subsequent. The impact assessment shall examine the ratio between the set objectives and the expected (achieved) results. (3) The National Assembly shall determine a methodology for carrying out an impact assessment of the draft laws and codes submitted by the Members of the National Assembly. (4) The Council of Ministers shall lay down, by regulation, the arrangements for planning and carrying out an assessment of the impact of the draft laws, codes and regulations of the Council of Ministers. The scope and methodology for carrying out the impact assessment shall be determined by a regulation of the Council of Ministers. Art. 20. (1) The preliminary impact assessment shall be partial and comprehensive. (2) The carrying out of a partial preliminary impact assessment precedes the preparation of each draft law, code and regulation of the Council of Ministers. (3) A comprehensive preliminary impact assessment shall be carried out in: 1. developing new laws and codes; 2. preparation of draft regulations for which the assessment under para. 2 has shown that significant consequences can be expected. (4) Outside the cases under para. 3 an overall preliminary impact assessment may be carried out at the discretion of the project designer. Art. 21. (1) The legislative initiative of the Council of Ministers shall be carried out on the basis of a legislative programme and the adoption of regulations on the basis of an operational programme. The legislative and operational programme shall be adopted by the Council of Ministers for a 6-month period. (2) The inclusion of draft laws and codes in the legislative programme and the regulations of the Council of Ministers in the operational programme shall take place after a preliminary impact assessment has been carried out. (3) The Council of Ministers shall examine draft laws and codes and regulations of the Council of Ministers which are not included in its legislative and operational programme if accompanied by a preliminary impact assessment. (4) The legislative and operational programme of the Council of Ministers together with the preliminary impact assessments shall be published on the Public Consultation Portal. (5) Preliminary impact assessments under para. 2 and 3 are agreed with the administration of the Council of Ministers. Art. 22. (1) The authority having jurisdiction over the implementation of the regulatory act shall carry out a follow-up assessment of the impact of the new laws, codes and regulations of the Council of Ministers. (2) The subsequent impact assessment shall be carried out within 5 years of the entry into force of the new law, code or regulation of the Council of Ministers or within a shorter period, as determined by the authority under para. 1. (3) The subsequent impact assessment carried out by an authority under para. 1 shall be published on the website of the relevant authority and of the Public Consultation Portal within 30 days of its establishment. (4) Where a body of local self-government has carried out a follow-up impact assessment, it shall be published on the website of the municipality within 30 days of its establishment. Art. 23. State authorities and budgetary organisations within the meaning of the Public Finance Act, to which requests for information or assistance have been made in relation to the performance of an impact assessment, are obliged to provide the information or to assist the authority which organised it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u133	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Hey, guys, any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs § 3 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 92 MPs: 10, against 32, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the name for the creation of a new Chapter 2 with Articles 19 to 23, the name of the chapter We are voting § 3 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 94 MPs: 88 against 0, abstention 6. Paragraph 3, the name of Chapter Two, together with the new members, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u134	Proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 4: 1. Two out. 2. t. 3 becomes t. 2, as from its content the creation of para. 5. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. Madam President, in the report is written the Working Group supports the text in general, but it takes into account the...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u135	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u136	..and offers the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "foundability, stability, openness and coherence' shall be replaced by "sustainability, predictability, openness, coherence, subsidiarity, proportionality and stability'. 2. A new para is being created. 2: In the process of drafting a draft legislative act, public consultations shall be held with citizens and legal entities. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and it shall provide at least a 14-day time limit for proposals and opinions on the project. The following sentence is inserted after the following sentence: When the project designer is an executive body, the publication is carried out on the Public Consultation Portal and when it is a local self-government body, on the website of the municipality and/or municipal council concerned. 4. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. The deadline for proposals and opinions on the projects published for public consultations under para. 3 is no shorter than 30 days. In exceptional cases and explicit indication of the reasons in the reason, respectively in the report, the designer may set another time limit but not less than 14 days. (5) After the end of the public consultation under para. 3 and prior to the adoption, respectively, the issuance of the regulatory act, the designer shall publish on the website of the institution concerned a reference to the proposals received together with a justification for the unaccepted proposals. Where the designer is an executive body, the publication of the reference shall be carried out at the same time at the Public Consultation Portal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u137	Colleagues, statements under § 4? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 92 MPs: 16 against 35, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 4 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u138	The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 after the word "send".. shall be added together with the initial impact assessment under art. The project is related to the powers of the municipalities and to the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u139	Statements on the Commission's proposal for a new § 5 in the version of the Commission? I won't. We are voting on the new § 5. Vote 94 MPs: 90, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u140	Proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 5 is out." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1 after the words................................................................................................. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. A new para is being created. 3: The draft law or code to be examined by the Council of Ministers shall also be accompanied by a reference to compliance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, which shall be drawn up by the Ministry of Justice. 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it after the words. A preliminary impact assessment according to Chapter 2 shall be added as follows, and for a draft law or code, a reference under para. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u141	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs to drop § 5. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 102 MPs: for 5, against 38, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 6 in the version of the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 97, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u142	Proposal by the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... After art. 51 additional provisions shall be established with a new § 1 and § 1a: "Additional provisions' § 1. This Law is a central, public-based information system which provides for the publication of draft public consultation acts drawn up by an executive body or by a local government body. A section shall be established in the public consultation portal which includes the natural and legal persons entrusted by the State or municipalities to develop draft regulatory acts, impact assessments and the amount of their remuneration. § 1a. Chapters 2 and 3, except for the requirement for reasons under art. 28, para. 1 shall not apply to: 1. the bills on the state budget, on the budget of the state social security and on the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, and on draft regulations relating to the implementation of the state budget; 2. the bills for amendment and supplement of the Constitution; 3. the bills for ratification and denounce of international treaties; 4. draft regulations relating to the prevention and eradication of the effects of force majeure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u143	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 7 with the wording of the report, and this is the creation of Vote 96 MPs: 90, none, abstention 6. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u144	According to § 6 of the importing proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... The following amendments shall be made to the Transitional and Final Provisions: 1. The former § 1 becomes § 1b. 2. In § 5, the number 3. Paragraph 6 shall be repealed. "Additional provision'. The Commission does not support the importer's text on the name of the subdivision and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u145	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 6 by importer, supported by the Commission, in its version, the paragraph shall become § 8. We vote § 8. Vote 87 MPs: 81, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for the name of the compartment and proposes to reject it. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject the name of this provision. 90 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 4. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u146	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 7, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u147	Statements? I won't. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. [[Reference between President Tsetska Tsacheva and the rapporteur Mrs Anna Alexandrova.]] Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u148	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u149	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we vote on the name "Transitional and final provisions" as well as § 8 by importer, supported entirely, but with a new numbering. " § 9. Vote 85 MPs: 79, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u150	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 9, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u151	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 82 MPs: 78, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u152	According to § 10, there is a proposal from the MP Christian Mitev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 10 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u153	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission proposal in favour of Mr. Mitev's motion to reject § 10. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u154	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u155	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted and with it the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws of the Second Voting. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ANIMAL TREATMENT. A report came in from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act, No 654-01-48, submitted by Ivan Stankov on 6 April 2016. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 13 April 2016, discussing a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act, No 654 01-48, submitted by the National Representative Ivan Stankov on 6 April 2016. The Commission's work was attended by: - from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Todor Todorov - by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency (BABH): Emil Krastev The bill proposes that the provision, which provides that persons operating in a veterinary clinic, veterinary infirmary (cabinette) or veterinary laboratory of a higher school, should not be part of the Bulgarian veterinary union. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports the Bill as this limits the right of these veterinarians to exercise their profession outside veterinary institutions at higher education institutions and prevents them from registering their own veterinary institutions. In addition, the annulment of the text achieves synchronization with the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria, according to which doctors exercising the veterinary profession should be members of the Bulgarian Veterinary Union. In conclusion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 17 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u157	Thank you, Mr. Christov. On behalf of the importer, Mr. Ivan Stankov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u158	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposed bill comes from two paragraphs, as you have already heard, which can be read in less than a minute, but since there are many problems in veterinary medicine, I will consider our proposal in a little more detail. First, I would like to recall that in the recently adopted Animal Health Act published in the Official Journal, No. 14 of 19 February 2016, there is one extremely important for animal health science, education and practice art. 46l, which finally, after long expectations, determined the status of veterinary medical clinics, such as there are only two universities of Thracian in Stara Zagora and Lesotechnics in Sofia. Article 46l, para. 1 determines that the animal treatment is carried out in a veterinary clinic, veterinary infirmary or office, or a veterinary laboratory of a higher school, or para. 2 reads as follows: "The persons who carry out activities in the objects under para. 1, do not belong to the Bulgarian Veterinary Union, which is precisely the problem. This was essential for state universities who prepare staff in veterinary medicine. Research, educational, postgraduate qualification is carried out in addition to medical activities. So the ordinary clinics of practitioners doctors and state universities, only two in Bulgaria, are very different, but this part is contested by the Bulgarian Veterinary Union. They think they should be equal. The academic community in both Thracian and Lesotechnical University reacted very strongly to this. There can be no veterinary clinics with modern equipment prepared to be matched to those of private practitioners. We have nothing against this, we deeply respect our colleagues, who we have prepared as footage, but a sign of equality there cannot be placed, because in veterinary clinics, which already have university status, many specific activities are carried out, which cannot be performed elsewhere, in other clinics in Bulgaria. We stand by this proposal of ours. There are no disputes on it now, no veto is required, but the Bulgarian veterinary union continues to argue that these clinics should be equal. We definitely believe that there can be no discussion on this issue. The second, which is disputed, is the imperative putting the problem that those working on para. 1 The lecturers are not members of the Bulgarian Veterinary Union. We placed it imperative because it creates a lot of problems for universities. The problem is that once an assistant wins a competition in order to start a job, does his studies, should go to register not in the national but in the regional veterinary clinic, get permission from there and comply with all the rules that are laid down for the Bulgarian Veterinary Union, and they differ significantly from those of the university and are subject to the laws on higher education, on the development of the academic staff and other laws related to educational activity. The other one. These assistants have low salaries. They have to pay membership fees to do their schoolwork. Another problem that led us to propose this imperative rule that a resident comes, most often from Russia, wants to get a diploma, and the European Union comes to us in a month or two. In order to be able to exercise the activity, they must become members of the Bulgarian Veterinary Union, which is unreasonable. All this made us make the offer. But immediately the other question arises, because this contradicts the Law on the word organization, where it is said that everyone who carries out veterinary work should be a member of the Bulgarian Veterinary Union. This led us to make the proposal for the stage, this para. 2 to be repealed, and together with that, we should start working to change the Law on the word organization of veterinarians in Bulgaria. Dear colleagues, it is insane in Bulgaria to have two veterinary medical unions of veterinary doctors, practitioners, and the state who are in constant conflict. See what happens as a result of this we cannot implement the prevention program. In Bulgaria, a new disease is burning, you all know it. A mass of animals must be destroyed. This is a big problem and it can become a scary hearth to move out of the country. But is it right for all animals to be destroyed? There are many, many conflicting activities between the two alliances. So we've decided on the stage, let's cancel para. 2 in order for our teachers to work in private clinics, to carry out veterinary activities outside the university, and to prepare a new law with the word organization, to make the Federation of veterinarians, in the first place, and to now look for better solutions to problems in veterinary medicine. That's our offer. I ask for support and understanding as to why this has happened and why this paragraph should be repealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u159	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we will support this bill because it is a matter of consistency. Even at the time of the adoption of the Animal Treatment Act, colleague Stankov, if you remember, if you have forgotten, you can recall from the transcripts, I explicitly emphasized that the text of art. 46L, first of all, is unconstitutional. There is no such law that prohibits anyone from being a member of any kind of organization. The text you proposed then is precisely that obligation not to be a member. Something to the detriment of the Constitution and violation of basic human rights. I specifically highlighted it. I offered to drop that text right then. What's glad is that you've come to your senses so quickly, you've reacted that it's something that's in the way. I will not go into the details of the problems that are in the Veterinary Medical Union, but we will support it because it is right to drop para. Art. 2 of art. 46l. This is again a matter of consistent action, of thinking and thinking, which we have already expressed when adopting these texts. It is good that you react quickly, because the damage would be much greater than what you said in your opinion of an importer. It is even better that it is you who are importing it, since you were also the person who proposed this text. I'm glad you realized we were right. It is good to listen to the opinions of other MPs, who appear to have always been correct and on the spot, but have not been respected, which leads to something worse to devaluation in legislative activity. When we don't listen, when we don't accept the other opinion, this is a devaluation of legislative activity. The same National Assembly, which only a few months ago adopted this text, will now have to cancel it because it is unconstitutional. I have stated it clearly and categorically and with the many other additions that I have said at the very first examination of the Law, but we will support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u161	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Replices, coworkers? I won't. Any other MPs? [[Noise and lines.]] I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act. Vote 79 MPs: 77, none, abstention 2. The bill was passed in the first vote. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I propose on the grounds of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put to the vote the adopted Second Voting Bill, namely the Animal Health Act, No 654-01-48, submitted by the National Representative Ivan Stankov on 6 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u163	My fellow Members, in the debates on the first vote, no intentions were expressed for proposals between the first and second votes. The terms of the Rules have been fulfilled, which is why I am voting on Mr. Rumen Hristov's proposal for a vote at first and second reading in a plenary sitting of this bill. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Second vote report, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Proposal for consideration of the Second Voting Bill, namely the Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act. I'm proposing an editorial amendment in the name of the Law, namely the words "and supplement" to be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u165	Since it is only an amendment, no additions are made. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Rumen Hristov's proposal the name of the bill to be: Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u166	................................................................................... In Article Final provision § 2. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u167	Statements on the two paragraphs reported? I won't. Anblok, I propose to vote § 1 and § 2 by importer, without any editorial proposals made on them. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The proposals were adopted unanimously and, therefore, on the second vote, the bill amending the Animal Health Act. Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I am making a proposal under the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance to increase the deadline for submission of proposals by 10 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u169	There's no opposite opinion. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Honourable Members, according to the weekly programme adopted earlier today, i.e. 6 "First vote on the Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on Public Procurement with importers Valeri Simeonov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Borislav Velikov, Krasimira Kovachka and Yavor Haytov, is envisaged as point one for tomorrow, but since we have exhausted the possible laws for today, I suggest that we continue our work today with this Law. The fact that the Commission's report was presented yesterday around 15.00 is to be mentioned as point one for tomorrow. I believe that we have all been familiar with it in detail and although the 24-hour period has not been formally respected, the report has ultimately been submitted in the previous day. We are ready to discuss this bill right now. Is there a reverse offer? I won't. Please vote on my procedural proposal to continue today's plenary session with the first vote on the Draft Supplement to the Public Procurement Act. We vote. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS. The Commission's First Voting Report on Legal Affairs. On behalf of the importers, I ask Mr. Valeri Simeonov to come to the Chamber to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 654-01-55, submitted by Valeri Simeonov Simeonov, Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Borislav Lyubenov Velikov, Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka and Yavor Iliev Haytov on 13 April 2016. At its meeting held on 18 April 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 654-01-55, submitted by Valeri Simeonov Simeonov, Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Borislav Lyubenov Velikov, Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka and Yavor Iliev Haytov on 13 April 2016. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Christian Mitev. The proposed Bill provides for the construction of engineering facilities of an obstacleing type in order to protect the state border from the scope of the Public Procurement Act. This is necessary in order to speed up the completion of the protective engineering facility from an obstruction type along the Bulgarian-Turkish border. The legislative amendments are also necessary in view of the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria to guard the external borders of the European Union. People's representatives Filip Pipov, Danail Kirilov, Svilen Ivanov, Petar Slavov, Christian Mitev, Mithat Metin took part in the discussion. In the course of the discussion, the people representative Filip Popov pointed out that the proposed supplement would lead to the drop of control regarding the price at which the fence was built and that spending funds should be done transparently. The other MPs expressed their support for the proposed addition to the law. Mr. Kirilov stressed that it is not contrary to European legislation and has been agreed with the Public Procurement Agency. Mr. Metin said that protection at the border of the Republic of Bulgaria, which is also an external border of the European Union, is extremely important. After the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council, 1 votes against the National Assembly, and without abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 654-01-55, submitted by Valeri Simeonov Simeonov, Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Borislav Lyubenov Velikov, Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka and Yavor Iliev Haytov on 13 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. On behalf of the importers, the bill will be presented by Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u172	Honourable Members, we offer your attention to correcting a failure which we have all allowed in discussing and voting on the latest amendments to the Public Procurement Act. This is the same text around which last year, January, we united and with which text we give the opportunity to carry out construction activities for the protection facility along the border with the Republic of Turkey, without applying the Public Procurement Act with all its clauses and requirements. So there's nothing new. The text is with one single paragraph. I'm reading: "I'm going to supplementing the Public Procurement Act It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1 is created a new t. 18: 18. contracts for services, supplies or works concluded by a contracting entity under art. 5, para. 2, p. 1-13 para. 4 t. 1 related to the construction of engineering facilities of an obstacleing type for the protection of the state border Needless to argue how necessary it is in terms of the refugee flow situation and its development, the completion of this fence. In particular, the orders to be organised and implemented are related to a section of about 77 km. 65 km along the river Rezovska, which are not even designed, and 12 km in the region of Haskovo region, along the river Tundzha, which are also not designed. That's the basis. That's the motive. I ask you not to stop the implementation of the protection facility, because at present the district governors are forced to slightly disregard the law, to tell you directly, so as not to stop the construction of this protective barrier. So I beg you once again to vote on this text. It has already been voted once and let us not stop the construction of the protective facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u173	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. The debate is open. First participant in it Mr. Tasco Ermenkov. Second Mr. Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u174	Madam President, honourable Members! We are not questioning the danger that refugees pose, we are even less questioning the need to have protective equipment. But I can't understand what the government has been doing since last February 2015 when we adopted the amendments to the Public Procurement Act when these public procurement contracts were to be made, including designing, including what border are we talking about? The Rezovska River and those 12 km on the Tundzha River didn't show up the day before yesterday, did they? They have been geographically given since Bulgaria existed and are at the same limit on which a protective facility was to be built. For a year and a half the head that everything is being done right there, everything was fine. The facilities were being built, all the necessary measures are being taken, we're walking along the border, foreign prime ministers beating us on the shoulder, bragging about what we're doing, and suddenly it turns out that we haven't designed them because we don't know if they're a border, or maybe they're not. A moment ago I took the liberty of saying something about so-called ignorance, but to this extent we do not know where Bulgaria's border with Turkey is and what orders should be made one year, and now we have to make fire amendments again in a newly adopted Public Procurement Act, it seems to me the least serious, I would say, irresponsible. In my opinion, the government should give us a clear answer what else has it missed to do to secure the Bulgarian borders? Now it's 60 miles on rivers that have existed since I don't know when you're...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u175	The corridor is changing, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u176	Oh, yeah, sorry. I kind of missed that river coming up recently because her tub was changing. It changes all the time. Let's wait for it to stop changing this tub and then build the facilities. Colleagues, I call on you to be serious and to seek the responsibility of this government, which, even though it is broadcast by your majority, has apparently one year shaken its legs and nothing is a rule to have 65 km missed. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Or maybe it's about the fact that they didn't exactly agree on which one of them would build that 40 miles? Now we have agreed, and so that we can choose him without any problems, we are making these changes. Or perhaps the one who built those 65 km earlier is not in Bulgaria today and now we need to find a new one to build them, and that is why we are making these changes?! I can't explain it otherwise! I really can't explain how they could be missed 65 km from the border to be designed and now we have to make changes to the Public Procurement Act, which was supposed to be transparent, had to ensure that there were no price problems, no chosen people, to be everything in competition?! Well, thanks for your consistency! Bless you! I hope you do not continue to protect Bulgaria's border in the future, that we will find ourselves one day without borders.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u177	First line, Mr. Svilen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Ermenkov probably doesn't understand at all what this is about. In the previous Public Procurement Act, we made this change in order to be able to carry out the procedures and in the fastest way to build the fence. It is our fault that in the new Public Procurement Act we did not foresee this thing, which also provokes the introduction of this bill by colleagues. I would like to mention that this is about real facilities that are made on projects and look massive. Some foreign prime minister might come, show them to him with pleasure, and he will see them and appreciate that they are done properly. It's not about 65 kilometers, but about the procedures being able to continue and make such facilities as to protect our border. In the debate of the Legal Commission there is the notion of a Kazazanlak fence. You guys do the math. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u179	There is no legal definition proposed in the Bill. [[Laughter and excitement.]] Second line? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u180	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Ermenkov, fellow Members of the National Assembly! The matter must be divided into two parts. I said it, but I'm sorry to have to say it again. One is the lawmaker's omission in the adoption of the latest amendments to the Public Procurement Act and we are all responsible for it. Each one of us, the MP, has missed. The reason they didn't build those 40 miles. However, there are circumstances that explain this omission to some extent. Let's remember that this fence is not in the country's budget. It is done by accident, urgently, in view of the development of the huge refugee stream. Thank God Bulgaria is the most protected country at the moment, compared to all the rest of the European Union. From this point of view, it is quite understandable that there are gaps, as things are being resolved on the move and there is no budget for this. And there is no budget currently available for the completion of the fence this year. I am sure that we will be in the same position and we will insist this year, living-dead, the Ministry of Finance and the Government to provide funds for the construction of this fence, otherwise we enter into a merry-go-round. We are in the same position here, but I repeat my request to you, to your group, not to hinder this decision, to accept it at second reading, so that we can not interfere with the construction of the facility, and there is a way to clear each other's political accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u181	Third line? A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u182	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll go with the second line. The first somehow got out of the context of what we talked about, so there's no point in wasting your time with an answer on it. Mr. Simeonov, I agree that there should be measures - I said it - and to make facilities to protect us, but again I asked: a year and a half what do we do? And secondly, you yourself say that there is still no money in the budget, but we will amend the Law. Let's start a public procurement under the old law and until the budget funds come...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u183	The new Law is in force.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u184	By the new law, I mean. Very calmly, as long as we finance, until we secure the funds for this order, it will pass all deadlines, it will go the way it should be. There's no need for extra legislation. Plus, when we talk about national security sites, I want to ask: do national security sites include bases, do other military objects that are connected? Are we going to do them the same way you're offering them now without public procurement? The subject of national security is the country's armament. Could it go into this context sometime a little bit wider? When we look at frigates, planes, are we going to buy them like this? It's dangerous to play with opening the door to orders that are out of the ordinary. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm serious. I don't mind and we don't clear up any political accounts. We want transparency. We want the state resources, already scarce, to be distributed transparently so that people know where and what they pay taxes for.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u185	Mr. Ivanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u186	Madam President, honourable Members! I do not understand why we should vote today on such a change, because in the debates on the amendment of the Law, which is now in force when we adopted this change, it was clear that there would be no need to adopt such a text. The absolute assurances were that the fence would be completed in time and at a price that would not damage the state budget. Unfortunately, to date, the partition facility has not been completed. It became clear at the Internal Affairs meeting that no one is responsible for this thing. I am surprised that some of the importers who have signed offer such a text, provided that even for them it is not clear when this partition facility will be completed. Neither the regional governors nor the interior minister make clear commitments that this partition facility will be completed. Not to mention the price that is growing rapidly compared to the first option that was started during the Oresharski cabinet. But here comes another question. Why do we need to amend the new Public Procurement Act with this bill? Is this not the opening of a wide door to start building a partition facility on the border with Greece, which has already been heard in the political space? This will be another downfall of our country to start building a partition facility at the European Union's internal border. Here, things need to be refined very carefully! What was released as information in the last days by the regional governors and the Ministry of Interior that by June the partition facility will be completed, what is the point of adopting this text? Mr. Simeonov, I apologize for interfering you here, but you were present at this meeting, where we had full assurance that this would be completed by the end of June, and that public procurement would be designed and started until the new Law was introduced by the current regional governors who have power under the old Law. I wish they'd finished the procedures. This means that we are currently enabling individuals who have been responsible for carrying out certain activities to get out of all this work dry. In my opinion, we must take responsibility from those who have committed these actions, who have been idle during this time, have not carried out the necessary procedures and have now allowed us to make changes to this Law with an uncertain future. What will we allow to do in the coming years? Here are my doubts that we may be going to build a partition facility along the border with Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u187	First line, Mr. Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u188	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I don't know what kind of person you have to be to get out of this tribune and talk about how the fence is built. Well, how was the fence built that fell, and we need to rebuild it right now? What kind of person was your interviewed chairman of the Kazanlak organization, Mr. Ivanov? I don't remember exactly how things were. This facility, Mr. Ivanov, has fallen and needs to be rebuilt. Fact! Let's vote, fellow Members, and end this squabble here. There's no point in them. There's no point in messing with me, telling me that our people are gonna do it, your people are gonna do it. Yes, your people made it, fell. Now this thing won't happen. The new fence won't fall. That's why I suggest we vote and stop picking on each other about petty things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u189	Second line, Mr. Svilen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u190	Madam President, honourable Members! The only right thing Mr. Ivanov said is that they were building a fence, and we're building a facility. Speaking of deadlines, keep in mind that you built 30 km in ten months, which with a strong wind fall, and you want 170 km to build them in a shorter time. Again, this is not a fence, but a technical facility that plays its part in protecting the border from illegally crossing citizens. Mr. Ivanov, it cannot be clear to anyone in this House how a few months ago you vote one solution with the other groups and support it unanimously, so that the fastest way to build the facility, and a few months later you start pulling out from nine wells of water, whether hot or cold, no one knows to fail, perhaps, the commitment we have made to make this facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u191	Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u192	I suggest you build a fence of roses.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u193	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm surprised at putting the subject on another plane. From what you comment on the quality of the partition facility, what was built before and what is being built now by your government, may be subject to subsequent talks when we see the sustainability of what you have built. This is not a question, and I do not know why you do not understand it for imposing a new extraordinary legislation.... something with which we agreed to implement it with the previous Public Procurement Act in order to end the illegal crossing of the Bulgarian border. We are now being offered a similar text again, given that in the debates on the adoption of this Law, which you now want to change, has not yet entered into force, which means that I am thinking something bigger. That's what I want the MPs to understand. However, I would like to remind those who replicated me that their group chairman has seriously questioned the way this facility is being built and the responsibility it carries for it. I'm surprised why they're supporting this position right now. Instead of taking responsibility for the people who are slowing down the construction of this partition facility, who have delayed the implementation of public procurement procedures, the choice under these light conditions, and now they are putting us before a done fact, you see, let's reshape the Law and allow similar arbitrariness to be done in the future. Excuse me, but we are the rule of law and we must not work on extraordinary legislation. The quality of the partition facility will be subject to another discussion because there are doubts in the way this is done.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u194	This is beyond the scope of the proposed bill, Mr. Ivanov. With all due respect, you're mixing...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u195	Madam President, you have allowed the speaker to come into this subject and I am in charge.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u196	The first speeches, mainly from your parliamentary group, mix what has been done so far with a specific bill. There are procedures, there are other laws that can be held accountable. On this particular bill from your group, I heard no objection.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u197	On the contrary, we say that we are against extraordinary legislation, provided that sufficient opportunity has been given to make this partition facility under the old law in force. What's the point of applying a new Law now to plaster someone's unfinished business?! The point of what we propose to do is not to be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u198	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! A year and a half ago, the almost parliamentary hall unanimously, including the representatives of the BSP, supported this extraordinary legislation and this change, enabling the so-called defence facility to be awarded for implementation without the procedure under the Public Procurement Act. Remember, that was a year and a half ago. I want to tell you that right now the representatives of the BSP will not support this proposal, because at least someone has to explain what has been done in a year and a half. In this Chamber, the Forty-second National Assembly for months began with a request for a Poll Committee, notice what the Oresharski government has done and why it is building a protective facility. But in a few months, he built 30 kilometers for 7 million. lv. If any of you think 100 million. lv. The amount that has been spent so far is small and should not be explained, I think it does not belong here. This is a huge amount for the Bulgarian budget. I do not believe that we can re-establish extraordinary legislation, which has been a goal behind which we stand and sign an empty check to someone, without making it clear what we have done, how much this facility costs per linear kilometer, but the question of the quality that I see being put here is separate. By the way, your Prime Minister Borisov, I think he's taking David to this facility that was built during the time of Mr. Oresharski. Know these things! [[Replying and shouting from GERB.]] If you think that someone with a light hand can vote and someone can continue to carry out or rather not to perform public procurement, to commission construction of such equipment, and no one to report on this resource, I would like to tell you that our political group will not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u200	You're five people.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u201	Five, five! If you're more, take it back!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u202	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Gazhev. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u203	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Boychev! There is one thing that you said that the fence for the security facility began to be built during the Oresharski government. The decision was taken in November, and the fence was adopted for use by the Border Police. At the end of August... about 10 months after the start of construction, for 30 km. The remaining about 180 kilometers from the border is logical that there is no way to build them in less than 10 months. Secondly, the way in which the procedure was carried out we have never been against the creation of a border facility in our parliamentary group to help control the migratory flow towards the country...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u204	Mr. Gadget, I apologize to you. We're not debating building a fence. The proposal is for a specific change in the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u205	I'll get to the same point. Given that at the time we reached a consensus on the adoption of the amendment in the previous law, it is now logical to continue.. though, whether there is any to finish from the fence. I say again: so much terrain can't be covered in so little time. It is not just about building the facility, but also about the leading roads, the building fund for border guards themselves, and all the accompanying facilities. It's not just a wire fence. The seven million you said were intended solely for the fence, the wire and the concrete material. All work, depreciation and so on, remains at the expense of the Ministry of Defense.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u206	Second line, Mr. Stanislav Ivanov. Just don't inform us about the size of the wire. We're talking about the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Under the law, Madam President. Dear Mr. Boychev, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Boychev, in the previous amendment to the Public Procurement Act, the text, as I recall, was the same as the text which we are currently offering 5, para. 2 points 1 to 13, para. 4 t. 1 related to the construction of engineering facilities of obstruction type in order to protect the state border. Period! What changes in the Public Procurement Act, what other things are we talking about? There is specifically talk about obstructions on the crossing of the Bulgarian border, Mr. Boychev. Tell me, what is the difference between the text now proposed and the previous amendment of the Public Procurement Act? There isn't one! Again, I appeal to you: let us support this proposal and end the debate. There's no point in debating something you supported a while ago, and now you're denying it. I don't understand your logic. If one of you gets up and explains how a few months ago it might have been for the first time, and now why it is against it, I will be eternally grateful to him. But you can't argue. You say that changes will be made to the Public Procurement Act, which will expand the scissors and so on. There's no such thing! We're only talking about specific facilities, Mr. Boychev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u208	Third line? Mr. Svilen Ivanov, you're giving up. Mr. Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u209	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Boychev, honourable colleagues! Obviously, at your exhibition, you couldn't explain to your colleagues why we're against it. We are against it, Mr. Boychev, because someone has to bear the responsibility for not completing in time this partition facility, which Minister Bachvarova swore to us that it would be completed by June. Now we really have to put in extra legislation. Please explain once again to your colleagues to understand why this is a thing. Because someone didn't do their job! That's why you're doing this thing, not because of something else!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u210	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov, we understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u211	We have been for the previous time, but now we are again proposing extraordinary legislation, without clear reasons for what this thing is doing. Please, Mr. Boychev, try to explain to your colleagues why this job is happening. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u212	Please don't go into lines from place to place! Will you use the hole, Mr. Boychev?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u213	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to remind colleagues Ivanov and Gajev that this change was made in January 2015. We are currently April 2016! This change enabled all procedures necessary for the construction of the partition facility to be assigned, carried out and to be implemented already. It is quite normal to ask the questions: where has this come to and what money?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u214	Mr. Boychev, this is for parliamentary control of the representatives of the executive power, not in the debates. I apologize, but I can't take it anymore!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u215	Well, he can't stand it, but it's 100 million, Madam President! It's about 100 million that we have to sign again to keep spending it! That's what this is about. Regarding the facility, I hope that my colleague Naydenov will take the floor because there were speculations about what and how it was done a year and a half ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u216	Thank you. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u217	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal to extend the plenary to a vote on the item under discussion. Among other things, I would like to invite my colleagues to stop this pointless debate. [[BSP LB.]] I'll explain why, colleagues! When the Public Procurement Act was viewed at second reading, I personally made such a proposal in this Chamber, from this tribune, and you from BSP supported it. I can't figure out what metamorphosis is right now. You're supporting him. He's got shorthands. You can read them. I don't understand how you supported him then, and now you're against it. Why do we have to do something pointless?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u218	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's procedural proposal. 100 MPs voted: 71, against 22, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. The word for speech is Mr. Angel Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u219	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Frankly, perhaps now part of the parliamentary group, in particular, I was ready to support this proposal. And to explain we had this attitude and, of course, we have implemented this support in voting on the proposal under the Public Procurement Act. Why, though, will we not support the proposed amendment of the Law now? Because we see complete helplessness on the part of the importers of the proposal for amendment and supplement to explain to us the arguments that require change at this time. Why should the protection facility currently being built, based on the previous amendment to the Public Procurement Act, not be completed in accordance with the order in which it was requested, that is to say by awarding by the district managers, provided that we have an approved initial project, provided that we have six companies selected at this time that participate in the construction of individual sections of the territory of the three districts? What requires this change? Is this change behind the understanding that new sections will be built along our border either with Turkey or, let's say, with Greece, which hypothesis has been claimed at this time? If they don't have that explanation, then what's the logic of the proposal? In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the facility could have been built without changing the previous Public Procurement Act, which provided for a limited procedure, including the participation of companies, on the basis of invitation and negotiations with them accordingly. We supported the first amendment of the Public Procurement Act with the understanding that this is a necessity in terms of risks and in terms of more effective countering illegal trafficking and limiting the refugee wave. According to the Prime Minister, where there is a protective facility, the ability to reduce and cross traffic and the refugee wave is seven times. Of course, building the protective facility also means less physical force, respectively less as the number of border police and military troops involved. I won't miss what I heard about the previous facility within 30 kilometers. Frankly ignorance, in order not to say a series of nonsense, excuse me, colleagues who were shared by the parliamentary tribune. First, to explain to you the construction of these 30 kilometers began at the end of February 2014 and was completed at the end of June 2014. The facility is designed, commissioned by the Ministry of Interior and it is a protective facility designed as ordered by the owner and who uses the protective facility in the face of the Ministry of Interior. The defence facility was built in the most intercepted section of the Bulgarian-Turkish border and was built to enable border police officers to react in time to notice approaching refugees. In these areas, neither the thermal surveillance nor the video cameras caught them at a time that allowed border police officers to interfere. It was built in such a section where the mechanization did not have access and, if you do not know, which is unforgivable for the members of the Defence Commission, the concrete was carried by hand, the construction materials were carried by hand by the Bulgarian servicemen, unlike the sections in which the protective facility is now being built. It is only natural in these areas to have natural soil erosion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u220	In a year, it's an erosion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u221	Don't talk nonsense, don't insult the people who built it! As a result of the erosion there was a tilt of 80 meters! Listen well to 80 meters! If this is a drama, what about what is happening on the highways of Bulgaria with the holes, with the fallen sections? What about the new sections of the highways?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u222	That's not the topic of conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u223	Once again, do not insult the people who participated in this construction. The guarantee and service of the protective facility is provided for in the construction. Seven-and-a-half million is the value of the security facility? One-and-a-half million are the wages that were due to the Bulgarian army. That's the value of the security facility paid by the state seven and a half million for the security facility! A little more than four months? 30 kilometers. Fifteen months already, construction of construction is not 60 kilometers away. There were questions to Mrs. Bachvarova about how much it was built and she didn't know how much it was built. How they were built, what they were prepared for... Even if we assume at the moment that 60 kilometers have been built you have voted once 65 million and a new decision for 30 million. Please extend the group's time. How much is it going to cost? Two hundred and fifty thousand leva is the linear kilometer of the old protective device. An obstacleing engineering technical facility is the name in the project, not a fence. There's no difference. Don't tell me the difference is in bail time. And then, and now there's a guarantee of the security facility! And then, and now the performers answer! And then, and now, the thickness of the wire is the same! What's the big difference that there's four times the price to get to a million linear kilometers now? What's the difference? What kind of materials do you put in exactly? Now let me explain the choice of companies. At the moment, the second company is involved in the construction, which once took part in the competition for the selection of the performers by the engineering part. The only producer of cutting wire in Bulgaria was the one who was elected. It's the only manufacturer! All the others were importers. Including the current contractor company, all it had to offer was a park fence, not a cutting wire. Of course, there are differences in what companies offer. Who's to be chosen? Who should be chosen, if not this company, which is the sole producer of the cutting wire? Don't speculate on these arguments. In conclusion, you have no grounds for the absurd attacks on the first 30 kilometers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u224	The subject of the debate, Mr. Naydenov, is a bill. Another is the debate today.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u225	No arguments are drawn from the fact that you are debating the subject of the first 30 kilometers. Of course, we cannot fail to explain everything that is the subject of your attacks. Since at this point you are not giving any new arguments about your new proposal, why should we give, in a way, the blanking permission, without being clear about what? It's also a kind of excuse for everything that's been done so far. In such a case, the least you can count on from the parliamentary group is to abstain from voting on this text. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u226	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u227	Madam President, honourable Members! Only in the way of voting and essentially. January 2015 We are voting in favour. The need to solve a socially significant task is justified and we are not going along with the long procedure. After that, Mr. Bajraktarov proposed in the Public Procurement Act, we justify it. Today, we see the results.. they became clear from this tribune. Negotiation is used as an opportunity to spend a lot of money without achieving the goal. That is why, and only for this reason, we cease to support this order to reach an agreement on the solution of this important task, and that is why our parliamentary group today is holding back and offering you with the voting opportunities and money to do this task that is envisaged, and from now on, if any other tasks are needed, to go according to the order of public procurement. That's the conclusion. That's the reason for our behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u228	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote the Law on Supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 654-01-55, of 13 April 2016. Voted 103 MPs: 85 against 6, abstention 12. The bill was passed at first reading. [[Applause from the PF Parliamentary Group.]] Mr. Valeri Simeonov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u229	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Since no concrete proposals have been made under the Bill, I propose that a second vote be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u230	A reverse opinion? I won't. I recall the text of art. 77, para. 2: The National Assembly may decide, exceptionally, that the two votes be held in one sitting. This provision shall apply only if no proposals for amendment or supplement to the Bill have been made during the discussion. There are the terms of the Law, which has the rank of law. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 97 MPs: 85 against 9, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Report for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u231	"Acceptance of the Public Procurement Act' It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1 is created a new t. 18: 18. contracts for services, supplies or works concluded by a contracting entity under art. 5, para. 2, p. 1.. 13 and para. 4 t. 1 related to the construction of engineering facilities of obstruction type in order to protect the state border.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-20.u232	Second-reading speeches? I won't. I hereby put to the second vote the Law on Supplement to the Public Procurement Act. Vote 95 MPs: 87, against 4, abstention 4. [[Applause from PF.]] The bill was passed in a second vote. Colleagues, tomorrow's regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. The second reading of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
