ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, after discussing the National Assembly Work Programme for the period from 13 April to 15 April 2016 at the Conference of Presidents earlier today, I propose that the following bill be entered into the Programme: 1. Second vote on the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Bill. The Council of Ministers adopted the first vote on 10 February 2016. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. Importers suppose Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. 3. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the bills adopted at the first vote on 11 March 2016 with importers: First Draft Law. "Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev and Petar Chobanov; Second draft Law "Menda Stoyanova," Danail Kirilov, Georgi Kovachev, Petar Slavov, Emil Dimitrov, Yordan Tsonev and Petar Chobanov. 4. Second vote on the bill of recognition, enforcement and transmission of acts imposing measures on procedural coercion other than measures requiring detention. The Council of Ministers adopted on 9 October 2015 at the first vote. 5. Second vote on the Law on Equality of Women and Men. The Council of Ministers adopted the first vote on 24 February 2016. 6. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area of the three related Additional Protocols and the Final Act to the Agreement. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 7. Draft Law on the ratification of the Financing Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund of the Agreement between the creditors on the Initiative for Small and Medium Enterprises between the Republic of Bulgaria, the European Union, the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund and the Betting Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria as a pledge and the European Investment Fund as a pledge. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. A bill on ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hasemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part. 9. First vote on the Bill on the closing of the Commission on disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importer: Velizar Enchev on 17 April 2015 Second Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importers ".. Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. And the third Bill on the archive of the documents of State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importers.? Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. 10. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Parliamentary control under art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on Friday, 11.00 Please vote. 135 MPs voted: 122, against 1, abstention 12. Program accepted. Two proposals have been made in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first at the time is the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Petar Slavov for inclusion in our weekly program of Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on Construction of the territory, No 554-01-114, submitted by Ivan Ivanov, Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. You withdraw this offer. The second proposal is by Dragomir Stoynev and Georgi Gokov, who propose to be included as a point in the weekly programme for this week First vote on the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Family Aid for Children with Disabilities, No 554-01-164, submitted on 14 October. 2015 by Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs. We're listening, Mr. Stoinev, to protect your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We, from BSP left Bulgaria, do not withdraw our proposal. We have imported it in October and we believe it is high time for it to enter the Chamber. Unfortunately, even the Budget Commission, as far as I understand it, does not wish to rule on a bill of utmost importance, especially for children with disabilities. This bill aims to regulate precisely the receipt of compensation for those families who raise their children who have not rejected them or rather tossed them to the State. You know, they've been getting approximately 70% of the minimum wage so far. Whenever the minimum wage increases when BSP is in power, the compensation has increased. Unfortunately, when GERB manages, this compensation has always been reduced, or rather, something that is totally unacceptable has been frozen. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we are talking about the additional BGN 54. to help families who raise their own children. I believe that this is extremely correct and is a timely measure. Just a few days ago, unfortunately, I say there was a protest of mothers raising their children who wanted fairer policy. If the government listens to the opposition's voice, I believe that these protests can be avoided. I believe that such a measure contributes to the already difficult daily lives of these families, their impasse and their impasse. Most of them are desperate anyway. Let the state at least show respect for these families. We are talking about approximately a small amount if we look at the budget as a whole at approximately 14 million. lv. It is about 22,000 families who really rely on MPs to have a bearing on the future of these children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u3	Colleagues, I'm putting this motion to the vote. They voted 143 MPs: 65, against 4, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I can't help but use the re-vote procedure and ask you once again to support the families of disabled children. Against the backdrop of last week's protests, I don't know how, with what eyes, how do you press the button against the entry of this item on the agenda? It's $22,000. Children. We need to tie the aid to them with the minimum wage. There will be an increase of 54 BGN and the aid will be 294 BGN. That's 14 million a year. Why do we deprive these children and families of BGN 648? A year? Why shouldn't the money get into the families? Trust me, they won't get rich with that money. They'll all go for medication, rehab, special foods. It is inhumane to treat these families and to demonstrate it by voting, by not putting this proposal to a debate in this House at all, I do not know what people can think of us outside, especially the parents of children with disabilities. I am formally using the re-voting procedure by calling on you to support it. I call on all the MPs who were at the meeting with these mothers who heard their problems "I see signs of agreement from the people with whom we met at the protest "let us launch the proposal and vote for its support!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u5	It's a re-vote. They voted 147 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 71. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I apologize for being so forward and insistent, but I will suggest that this point be the first point in the weekly programme for tomorrow. If we're going to do something good, let's do it all the way. Thank you. [[Shouting "Bravo" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u7	A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal included in our decision that the bill should be t. 1 for tomorrow, Thursday. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 149 MPs: 63, 26, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. The point remains as before last in the programme before parliamentary control. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 6 to 12 April 2016: Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Veterinary Activity Act. Importer Ivan Stankov. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. Draft Decision repealing Decision of 24 February 2016 adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly and for opening a new procedure for election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Importer Peter Slavov and group of MPs. It will be discussed by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer Peter Slavov and a group of MPs. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Bill amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act. Importer "Kyril Tsochev" and group of MPs. The Committee on Energy is the lead, it is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. Importer "Kyril Tsochev" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe as beneficiary and the Republic of Bulgaria as guarantor. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Commission on Energy and the Committee on Legal Affairs. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importer - Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Agriculture and Food. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importer "Kyril Tsochev" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Energy. A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importer Krasimir Karakachanov and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also assigned to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Bill amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. Importer "Mihail Mikov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, as well as to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft decision to terminate the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President and members of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Importer "Dilyan Dobrev" and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Committee on Legal Affairs will also look at it. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Activity Report of the State Agency "National Security" for 2015. Importer "The Council of Ministers." It is assigned to the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Activity Report of the State Agency "Research" for 2015. Importer "The Council of Ministers." It is again assigned to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications. Importer of the Council of Ministers. There's a distribution coming up. On 12 April 2016, a Report on the progress of the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for Multi-Family Housing in 2015, adopted by Decree No 18 of the Council of Ministers of 2 February 2015 on the adoption of a National Energy Efficiency Programme for Multi-Family Housing Buildings for the terms and conditions for the grant of financial assistance under the Programme and for the designation of the bodies responsible for its implementation was received by letter No 603-12-19 in the National Assembly. The report has been drawn up in accordance with paragraph 1. 2 of the National Assembly decision of 20 February 2015 concerning the debates on the questions of the MPs Maya Manolova and Dora Yankova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the renovation of residential buildings. The material is provided to all MPs of their e-mails and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received materials from the National Statistical Institute containing statistical research results on information for February 2016 on the following indicators: The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. According to the program we have adopted, we begin with: THE SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR THE TRUE MIGRATION AND THE TRUE MOBILITY. Mr. Ademov, we are listening to you with the second vote report on this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u8	Thank you, Madam President! Allow me to make a procedural proposal in this House to invite the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Galab Donev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u9	We are voting on this proposal, fellow Members. Vote 109 MPs: 106, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u10	"Report on the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, No 502-01-100, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015, adopted on the first vote on 10 February 2016. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. ? Chapter 1?? General.????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u11	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of the Law and of Chapter 1 of the General Situations of an importer supported entirely by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u12	Under art. 1 has a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. (1) This law shall lay down: 1. regulation of access to the labour market of third-country workers, including freelance activities; 2. the exercise of the right of free movement in the Republic of Bulgaria of workers of another Member State of the European Union, of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation; 3. the employment of Bulgarian citizens in their free movement within the European Union and the European Economic Area; 4. The bilateral regulation of employment with third countries of both Bulgarian citizens on their territory and their citizens in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The conditions and procedures under which workers of third-country nationals and their family members, as well as third-country nationals, may enter, reside and leave the Republic of Bulgaria, shall be determined by the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The conditions and procedures under which nationals of other Member States of the European Union and members of their families, as well as nationals of the States of the European Economic Area Agreement, or of the Swiss Confederation and their family members enter, reside and leave the Republic of Bulgaria, shall be determined by the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and their family members.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u13	Statements, coworkers? I won't. Vote art. 1 in the version of the Commission on its report. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u14	Under art. 2 no proposals have been made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u15	We vote. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u16	Under art. 3 there is a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. (1) The policy on the free movement of workers, labour migration and integration of foreigners shall be carried out in cooperation and after consultation with the representatives at national level of employers and employees, as well as with representatives and other non-profit legal entities registered under Chapter 3 of the Non-profit Legal Entities Act. (2) The Minister of Labour and Social Policy, after consulting the National Council for Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, may impose restrictions on the access of third-country workers to the labour market, including highly qualified and freelance persons, according to the state, development and public interests of the labour market. (3) The cooperation and consultations under para. 1 and 2 shall be implemented by the National Council for Labour Migration and Labour Mobility.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u17	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 3. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u18	Under art. 4 there is a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. (1) National Council on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility shall be established with the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. (2) The National Council on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility shall consist of an equal number of representatives of representative employers' and employees' organisations at national level, representatives of ministries, agencies, committees and local self-government bodies. (3) In the composition of the Council under para. 2 may be invited to participate and representatives of international non-profit organisations and legal entities engaged in activities in the field of labour migration, labour mobility and integration of foreigners. (4) The Minister of Labour and Social Policy is Chairman of the National Council for Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. (5) The composition, organisation and activity of the National Council for Labour Migration and Labour Mobility shall be determined by the rules for implementing the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u19	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 4. Vote 96 MPs: 95 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u20	"Chapter 2" - Labour migration from third countries. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. General provisions. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u21	We vote on the name of Chapter 2 and Section I of this Chapter by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u22	Under art. 5 has a proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. (1) A third-country national shall be allowed access to the labour market where: 1. has an employment contract with a local employer; 2. has been seconded or sent within the framework of the provision of services in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 3. has been moved on an intra-corporate transfer; 4. carries out freelance activities. (2) When applying for initial access to the labour market, as well as for access after the period under art. 7, para. 5 The foreigner resides outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The conditions for admission of posted or dispatched workers and employees from third countries to the Republic of Bulgaria within the framework of the provision of services shall be laid down by a regulation of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u23	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u24	Thank you, Madam President. So formulated t. 1 of para. 1 of art. 5 in the Law actually allows abuse of this text, which is why I am proposing a slight addition to this. 1 and that is: after the words "by contract of employment" to be used.. subject to the conditions of art. 7 of this Law............................................................................................... What do you mean? Countless such contracts can be released, but the requirements of art. 7 in this Law say that foreigners, or as they have already renamed the third-country residents, must not be more than 10% of the employed personnel of an undertaking. If so. 1 shall remain in this version, and it shall be before art. 7, this means that a serious door for abuse and entry of a huge number of migrants into the labour market in Bulgaria is opening up. I think it's good to supplement the sentence in point. 1, so that there is clarity and that this matter cannot be abused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u25	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. First, I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Bayraktarov, which he proposes in art. 5, para. 1, t. 1 on the report, and it states: "There is a contract of employment with a local employer, to be recorded: "There is a contract of service under the conditions of art. 7 with a local employer. We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal. They voted 92 MPs: 24, against 20, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u26	Thank you, Madam President. I want a reword because I feel that here in this room, no one is trying to understand that if the supplement is not made in t. 1 of para. 1 of art. 5, this means that the Bulgarian worker, an employee can now safely be thrown out of the labour market. He's just not protected, and I don't know why you don't want to understand it. If I return two members further back, with Mr. Hasan Ademov's proposals, where he binds the Law and the Law on Foreigners, I must remind you that there is a text that says that when 90 days pass, every foreigner, without knowing whether he is Syrian, whatever he is, without even having an ID card, is entitled to access the labour market. I mean, at the moment, with the proposal that I am making, firstly, I want to protect the Bulgarian workers and employees from such an invasion, from abuse. How? In what way? Not at all!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u27	Colleagues, Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin is ready to respond, although we are in a re-voting procedure. [[Reply from Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin.]] Let me introduce you to the proposal, Mr. Kalfin. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1, t. 1 is written down that a third-country national is allowed access to the labour market when he has an employment contract with a local employer. Mr. Bayraktarov is worried that if it is not recorded under the terms of art. Article 7 (a) and (b) is replaced by the following: 5 shall be located before Article 5. 7, the terms of the contracts shall not apply as listed in art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's a legal matter. Just because one member is in front of another in the Law does not mean that one member acts less than the other. Article 7 is a fact. It shall apply. If the MPs vote on it, it is part of the Law. It will be part of the framework and it makes no sense in all previous members to refer to art. 7. In addition, these conditions should be met in order to initiate any procedure. So if art. 7 is accepted, will be valid and there is no point in mentioning it in the previous ones.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u29	It's a re-vote. They voted 96 MPs: 20, against 16, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 5 in its version of the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 89, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u30	Under art. 6 The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of this Article: Art. 6. The labour and social security relations of workers of third-country nationals employed by local employers as well as freelance workers are regulated under the terms and conditions of the Bulgarian labour and social security legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u31	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 6 in the version of the Commission. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u32	Under art. 7 has a proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova, which has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. (1) Access to the labour market of workers of third-country nationals shall be allowed for the occupation of positions for which no Bulgarian citizenship is required: 1. according to the state, development and public interests of the Bulgarian labour market after a preliminary study of the labor market carried out by the employer; 2. provided that in the previous 12 months the total number of third-country nationals working for the local employer does not exceed 10 percent of the average number of Bulgarian employees, nationals of other Member States of the European Union, of countries Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation and the persons referred to in art. 9, para. 1, t. 2-6; 3. where the offered working and payment conditions are not less favourable than the conditions for the Bulgarian citizens for the respective category of work; 4. where the third-country national has specialised knowledge, skills and professional experience necessary for the relevant position. (2) Workers of a third country with authorised access to the labour market may either work in employment or as posted in the framework of the provision of services in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria only for the specific legal or natural person and for those indicated in the authorisation issued by the competent authorities, place, position and duration of work. (3) The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall provide a written decision within 30 days of the submission of the application for authorisation of access to the labour market under para. 1 of third-country nationals. (4) The duration of authorised access to the labour market under para. 1 shall be for the term of the contract with the local employer, but not more than 12 months. (5) The term of the decision under para. 3 may be extended to 3 years where the conditions for its initial granting have not been changed. (6) The Employment Agency shall provide information on all documents necessary for the submission of an application for the decision under para. 3, including the rights and obligations arising from it for a third-country national. (7) The documents necessary for the provision of the decision under para. 3 shall be submitted by the employer to the Employment Agency. (8) To grant or extend the term of the decision under para. 3 The employer pays a fee of 400 BGN. (9) The conditions and procedures for the exercise of a regulated profession in the Republic of Bulgaria by third-country nationals, by employment relationship or self-employed persons shall be determined under the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications. (10) The terms and conditions of the granting, extension, refusal or revocation of the decision under para. 3, as well as the conditions for conducting the study under para. 1, t. 1 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. (11) The terms and procedures for issuing, renewing, refusing and withdrawing residence and work permits shall be laid down by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG...).
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u33	This is the article in question. 7. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm making an editorial proposal in para. Article 8 7, because it is contrary to the Law on State Fees, to change the number 400 to the number 4. Mr. Deputy Minister and Mr. Deputy Prime Minister to come out and explain how they formed the cost of this fee of 400 BGN, contrary to art. 2 of the Law on State Fees. How and in what way you calculated it, calculated what costs are included in this 400 leva.? I'm getting very interested. Or just like that, random someone writes them, contrary to the Law?! If you do not know, then the Law says that the fee must be calculated and determined on the basis of its cost, i.e. include the costs of its formation. Here I should point out to you that there is a very good caselaw that says that employees' salaries are not included in this cost. Now, come out and explain how you formed these 400 levs, at what cost, or write them just like that to write something. My offer is 400 leva. to be at BGN 4 because the only thing that happens is to accept an application. The cost of this application is 10 pennies. And to add to that, all the information is there. It's just an extension. There it is, it's processed, no extra expenses are made. Rather, it would have made sense to seek a fee for the first time such an application, as some work was put into it. But on the second application for extension, the logic is simply gone!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u35	We understand you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. Ladies and gentlemen, we will first vote on the proposal made by the National Representative Bajraktarov in art. 7, para. 8 the number to be replaced by the number to be replaced by the number to be replaced by the number to be replaced by the number to be replaced by the number to be replaced by the number to be replaced by the number to be replaced by the number to be replaced by the number to be replaced by the number to be replaced by the number to be replaced by the Please vote. Vote 89 MPs: 23, Against 28, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission for art. 7. They voted 83 MPs: 78, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u36	Under art. 8 there is a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, which is generally supported by the Commission. There is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) The right of access to the labour market shall not have workers who are third-country nationals who: 1. have a short-stay visa in the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. are authorised for long stay in the Republic of Bulgaria on the basis of art. 24, para. 1, t. 2, 6-8,10,14,16,19 and 20 and art. 24c of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) Right of access to the labour market on grounds other than those referred to in para. 1 may receive workers from third-country nationals legally residing in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria where they are: 1. persons of Bulgarian origin until a permanent residence permit is granted; 2. persons who worked in previous period before submitting the request for access to the labour market under the conditions of an international contract to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country; 3. persons who worked without permission to work under the conditions of art. 9, para. In the case of continuation of employment more than 3 months; 4. members of a family of a long-term resident in the Republic of Bulgaria a foreign national of a third country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u37	Thank you. Statements? There aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for art. 8. Vote 92 MPs: 90, none, abstention 2. Article 8 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u38	Under art. 9 has a proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. (1) No authorisation under art. 7, para. 3 for third-country nationals: 1. referred to in Article 1. 88 of the Code of Commercial Shipping; 2. with permission for long-term or permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria and members of their families; 3. with the right to asylum or granted international protection in the Republic of Bulgaria under the Law on Asylum and Refugees; 4. for which this is provided in an international treaty to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country; 5. who are members of a family of Bulgarian citizens; 6. who are members of a family of a national of a Member State of the European Union, of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation, who, under international agreements concluded with the European Union, are entitled to free movement; 7. who are accredited as members of foreign diplomatic, consular and trade offices, as well as representatives of international organisations in the Republic of Bulgaria; 8. officially accredited in the Republic of Bulgaria correspondents of foreign mass media; 9. enjoying the rights of art. 29, para. 3 of the Law on Asylum and Refugees; 10. asylum seekers or international asylum for work organised at the Centers of the State Agency for Refugees at the Council of Ministers; 11. enjoying the rights under Article 11. 44a, para. 4 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria until the expulsion takes place. (2) The employment of family members under para. 1, t. 2, 5 and 6, as well as the faces under para. 1, t. 9 and 11 shall be declared in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (3) A third-country national seconded to the Republic of Bulgaria by his foreign employer for up to 3 months within 12 months may perform certain tasks without a work permit on the basis of a single registration with the Employment Agency. (4) A third-country national seconded to the Republic of Bulgaria by his foreign employer for a period of up to 6 months within 12 months may carry out certain tasks related to the control and coordination of the implementation of a travel service contract between a foreign tour operator and a Bulgarian tour operator or hotel operator, without permission to work, on the basis of a single registration with the Employment Agency. (5) The conditions and procedure for registration under para. 3 and 4 are determined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u39	Thank you. Are there any statements under art. Nine? There aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, which has been edited by the Commission for art. 9. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u40	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. (1) Within 7 days of the date of the actual start of the work of the third-country national, the employer shall inform the Executive Agency thereof. (2) When hiring or accepting a third-country national, the employer shall require him to provide a valid residence document, a notary certified copy from which he shall keep for the term of employment or acceptance. (3) The conditions under para. 2 shall also be implemented in respect of posted workers and employees from third countries from the local person who has accepted them. (4) Upon early termination of the employment relationship of the worker, a third-country national or of the secondment within the framework of the provision of services, the employer or the person who accepted the worker shall notify the employment agency in writing within three days of the date of termination of employment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u41	Thank you. Are there any statements under art. Ten? There aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, which has been edited by the Commission for art. 10. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u42	Under art. 11 has a proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall refuse to grant the decision under art. 7, para. 3 when: 1. the provisions of Article 1 are not complied with. 7, para. Art. 1 and 7 and art. 8, para. 1; 2. the procedures laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law are not complied with; 3. the employer has entered into force a criminal decree in a previous two-year period for using the labour of a foreigner without the right to access the labour market or to employ an illegally staying foreigner; 4. the employer in the last three months on his own initiative has relieved from work Bulgarian citizens, citizens of a Member State of the European Union, of a State of the European Economic Area Agreement or of the Swiss Confederation, third-country nationals with allowed long-term or permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria or with their rights aligned under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2-6 third-country nationals who could be employed at the workplace for which the employment of a third-country national is requested. 5. there are grounds under art. 10 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria; 6. the employer in the previous one year before the submission of the request for a decision under art. 7, para. 3 there is an effective criminal decree under art. 76, para. 1; 7. the employer has notified to the Employment Agency for mass dismissal of workers and employees of the same categories, profession and level of qualification for which he wants to appoint workers of third countries, in the previous six months prior to the submission of the request for a decision under art. 7, para. 3; 8. the employer has monetary obligations within the meaning of art. 162, para. 2 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code established by an act of a competent authority which has entered into force, unless deferred or deferred debts or cash liabilities relating to the payment of social security contributions are allowed; 9. the employer does not carry out an economic activity or is terminated by liquidation or bankruptcy; 10. the third-country national has been sanctioned for illegal employment in a previous 5-year period or under the documents submitted has worked illegally in the Republic of Bulgaria on a previous residence or at the time of the submission of the request; 11. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy has imposed restrictions on the access of third-country nationals to the labour market under art. 3, para. 2. (2) Alinea 1, t. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 shall also apply in the case of secondment or dispatch of workers and employees from third countries. (3) Refusals under para. 1 and 2 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u43	Thank you. Statements under art. 11? There aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for the proposed art. 11. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u44	Under art. 12 has a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Art. 12. (1) The right of access to the labour market of a third-country worker may be revoked where: 1. it is established that for the granting of the decision under art. 1. 7, para. 3 false data are presented; 2. the control bodies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shall establish that the employment of the third-country national does not correspond to those indicated in the decision under art. 7, para. 3 a post, place of employment, employer or local person receiving a posting worker or employee from a third country; 3. the permit for residence of the worker of a third-country national has not been issued or has been revoked in accordance with the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The terms and procedure for withdrawing the right of access to the labour market of a third-country worker shall be laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u45	Thank you. Statements under art. 12? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for art. 12. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u46	Under art. 13 has a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 13: Art. 13. (1) The employment of illegally staying third-country nationals on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall not be permitted. (2) If an employer employs an illegally resident in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria a third-country national, in violation of the prohibition under para. 1, he owes him the agreed remuneration, but no less than the minimum wage established for the country or for the relevant economic activity, for a period of three months, unless the employer or employee proves another duration of employment. The payment is due and may be sought under the Civil Procedure Code and after the return of the citizen to the State of his usual residence, including the costs of the translation of the payment. (3) If the employer does not pay the obligation under para. 2, the illegally employed resident in the territory of the Republic of Bulgarian citizen of a third country may bring an action against him, including when he has returned or has been returned to the State under his usual residence, within three years under the Civil Procedure Code. (4) On what has been paid under para. 2 remuneration is due to the respective taxes and compulsory social contributions provided for employees under the Bulgarian legislation. (5) The employer shall bear the costs of returning the illegally staying third-country national.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u47	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Dear colleagues, we are voting, proposed by the Commission and edited by it, an importer text for art. 13. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u48	Under art. 14 has a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14. (1) The Minister of Labour and Social Policy may, if proven appropriate, including for the promotion of investments in the Republic of Bulgaria, allow access to the labour market in individual cases outside the limits of art. 7, para. 1, t. 2. (2) For the authorisation under para. 1 The Minister of Labour and Social Policy requires opinions from the relevant state authorities, as well as from representative employers' and employees' organisations at national level, from creative unions, sports federations and national sports organisations, from local self-government bodies. (3) The Employment Agency shall publish on its website up-to-date information on the authorisations under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u49	You may also report Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u50	Section II - Single residence and work permit. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u51	Thank you. Statements? There aren't any. We are voting anblok, honourable Members, a text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for art. 14 and the text on the name of Section II supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u52	Under art. 15 has a proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova, which was withdrawn in the course of the discussion. Proposal by the National Representative Hasan Ademov, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: Art. 15. (1) The single residence and work permit shall be issued by the Ministry of Interior according to art. 24and of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and contains the decision provided by the Executive Director of the Employment Agency under art. 7, para. 3 for third-country nationals who: 1. apply for a residence permit for work purposes; 2. hold a valid residence permit in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for purposes other than employment. (2) The decision under para. 1 shall be provided subject to Article 1. 7, para. 1. (3) The term of the decision under para. 1 may be extended for a period of up to 12 months where there are grounds for its initial delivery and there is no interruption in employment and the total duration may not exceed three years. (4) For the provision of the decision under para. The provisions of Article 1 shall not apply. 7, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 to work on: 1. persons of Bulgarian origin, proven in accordance with the established order, for their employment in a position for which they have the relevant education or professional qualification and experience............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. foreigners whose employment in the territory of the country results from the implementation of international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country; 3. guest lecturers, lecturers and teachers in Bulgarian higher and secondary schools with a decision, respectively, of the academic councils of higher schools and of the regional inspectorates of the Ministry of Education and Science; 4. Artists-executors within the meaning of art. 74 of the Copyright Act and its related rights with proven professional competence after the interest of the Ministry of Culture in hiring them; 5. Athletes and coaches in professional sports clubs in confirmed by Bulgarian national sports federations and unions interest in hiring them because of their special personal qualities and high level of professional knowledge and skills. (5) Access to the labour market of persons under para. 4 may be continued after the end of the three-year period of employment under para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u53	Statements on the proposed art. 15? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 15. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u54	Under art. 16 there is a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16: Art. 16. This Section shall not apply to third-country nationals who are: 1. posted or sent in the framework of the provision of services for the duration of the posting; 2. authorised for continued residence for the purposes of intra-corporate transfer; 3. authorised for seasonal worker; 4. authorised for freelance activity in the Republic of Bulgaria; 5. adopted as researchers for the purpose of conducting a research project under an admission agreement with a research organisation. Section III - Blue map of the European Union. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u55	Thank you. Honourable Members, speeches under art. 16 and the name of Section Three? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for art. 16 and supported by the Commission, name of Section III. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u56	Under art. 17 has a proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova. The proposal was withdrawn in the course of the discussion. There is a proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Art. 17. (1) The permit for residence and work type of the European Union Blue Card shall be issued by the Ministry of Interior according to art. 33k, para. 1 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and contains the decision provided by the Executive Director of the Employment Agency under art. 7, para. 3. (2) The decision under para. 1 shall be made available within 15 days of the submission of the application, subject to art. 7, para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 4 when: 1. the worker, a third-country national, shall have the competence required for the work concerned, the higher education acquired, which shall be certified by a diploma, certificate or other document issued by a competent authority after training with a duration of not less than three years held by an educational institution recognised as a higher school by the State concerned; 2. the gross salary referred to in the employment contract of the worker a third-country national is at least 1.5 times higher than the average salary in the Republic of Bulgaria according to the available data for the last 12 months prior to the conclusion of the employment contract. (3) The decision under para. 1 shall be granted for the term of the contract of employment. (4) For the granting of a decision on the exercise of highly qualified employment, the employment contract shall have a period of not less than 12 months.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u57	Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on a proposed text by an importer edited by the Commission for art. 17. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u58	Under art. 18 has a proposal from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Dragomir Stoinev: Article 18 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Rumen Hristov, Delyan Dobrev and Petar Kanev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 18, para.3 the words The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: Art. 18. (1) The requirements of art. 7, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 shall not apply to the provision of a decision under art. 17, para. 1 for the exercise of high-skilled employment by a third-country national in a position of a single group of professions of the National Classification of Occupations and Jobs included in a list of professions for which there is a shortage of highly qualified professionals. (2) The list under para. 1 shall be endorsed by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the basis of a reasoned proposal from the national representative employers' organisations and after discussion at the National Council for Labour Migration and Labour Mobility and the National Council for Employment Promotion. The list may be updated annually until 31 January. (3) The decision to exercise highly qualified employment under para. 1 shall be issued in accordance with Article 1. 17, para. 2, p. 1 where the gross salary referred to in the contract of employment of the worker a third-country national is at least 3 times higher than the average salary in the Republic of Bulgaria according to the available data for the last 12 months prior to the conclusion of the contract of employment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Statements? Mr. Gokov, you have an unsupported offer to drop the entire member. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u60	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As you can see, this bill is consensual and is going normally, supported in this House. I think the only non-consense text in the Law is this article. 18. With the other importer Dragomir Stoynev, we took the liberty of proposing the removal of this text because we are worried about removing the market test, albeit only for certain professions and how it will affect the protection of the Bulgarian labour market. I do not hope that you will vote on our proposal to reject this article, only by my speech I would like to draw attention to what the text is about and what the market test is. The market test shall be a declaration of the place where the employer wishes to appoint a foreigner to the respective Labour Directorate in the employment departments of the Employment Agency. This job is announced in one national and two regional newspapers and stays at the labor desks for 14 days. In this way the labor mediators work to take the place and it becomes available to the Bulgarian citizens in terms of awareness. I don't know why we're ignoring the employment agency as an institution, and why shouldn't we announce these jobs there? Imagine that there are people registered there, suitable by education and qualification to occupy this place. Where can they learn about this vacancy, except from the employment bureau? I would remind you that employment agencies also register people who want to change jobs, for example working not in their specialty, but have registered precisely to seek work in their specialty. Why do we deprive them of learning that there is a job in their specialty? In essence, Article 3 (1) (b) of Directive 2014/59/EU is replaced by the following: 18 cancels the requirements of art. 7, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 of this bill we just adopted. I don't know if this saves employers 14 days when the place has to stand on the work test at the labor desks and does not lead to much relief. Whether the procedure will last 15 or 30 days in my opinion is not very important, since a foreign worker will be hired, which means that for a long time this job has remained unemployed with the employer. I will draw attention to the fact that with art. 18 cancels the text of t. 2 which states: "If, in the previous 12 months, the total number of third-country nationals working for the local employer does not exceed 10 percent of the average number of employees per employee. So, whatever we do, we can make sure that 100 foreigners work in a company just because the Bulgarian employer claims that he cannot find Bulgarian workers. See what's written in para. 2 of art. 18: This list is endorsed by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy on the basis of a reasoned proposal of national representative employers' organisations and after the discussion at the National Council for Labour Migration and Labour Mobility and at the National Council for Employment Promotion. The list may be updated annually until 31 January. That is, we leave it to employers and employers to protect our labour market, but agree that their interests do not always coincide with the interests of the workers and with the interests of the state to protect the labour market. In fact, I can argue against it that in most cases these interests differ. My next argument to support the dropping of art. 18. Now we are talking about IT specialists and everything is subject to the fact that it is about IT specialists. But when we talk about them, I might agree that there really are none on the labour market, but imagine at a later stage some employers' organization saying that there are, for example, no stringers, hairdressers or tractors on the labour market and wants them to get on that list.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u61	Are there any higher education Strugars?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u62	We're not just talking about higher education, we're talking about highly qualified specialists. So we can argue that some employer does not have specialists in Bulgarian language. We're bringing subjectivism into this whole thing, and I don't think it's going to do any good to the overall vision of the Law. All I know is you're not gonna support this thing. I'll tell you that the unions agree with this and support it. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u63	Time's up!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u64	Thank you. And one last sentence. I think that on this consensual law one such adopted text will not be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u65	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. First line, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u66	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, it should be clear that this section is about highly qualified employment. It is explicitly underlined that those people who will be hired by Bulgarian employers under these rules should be compulsory with higher education. This is what is called the European Union's Blue Card. The Blue Card, I stress, is only for highly specialized professions. You said that by order of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy every year until January 31st the list of professions deficient in the Bulgarian labour market is confirmed, there are no such specialists, so employers propose to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy under this procedure with the issue of the Blue Card to be employed on the Bulgarian labour market foreigners from third countries. The directive states that a market test is being carried out. That's what we accepted in art. 17. So these are the general rules. So that's where you go through a market test procedure, you go through the Migration Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, you go through the SANS, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and so on. You know that the ad is published in a daily newspaper, in the labor desks, as you said. That is, this procedure is strongly enough to prevent any type of exceptions from the rules, i.e. the payment of highly qualified employment must be no less than 1,5 times. This has already been said in art. 17. In the next article. 18 is allowed to lighten the procedure without a market test. Such a blue card is called a "synthesis" by the way, but otherwise it is white with a green stripe, this is another feature of the last year no more than 50 such permissions were issued, this year there are only seven within two months. So it's not about any problem at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Anyone else want a line? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We will not support the proposal of colleague Gyokov for dropping out of art. 18 because, even now, at the time of the review of the Bill, this regime is acting in relation to the procedure without a market test in the Regulation on the conditions and procedures for issuing work permits. The entire procedure in February passed through the National Employment Promotion Council and the National Employment Mobility and Labour Migration Council. This eased employment procedure for highly qualified professionals is not new. So it's a relief for employers and it's on a proposal from all national representative employers' organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Anyone else want a line? I won't. Mr. Gokov, the dodger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, of course I know that this is about highly qualified employment, specialized workers. I don't mean that. It must be a very rude example that I set with the tractors, I just wanted to point out to you that we are making a breakthrough in the Law and introducing some special regime, and that does not save the employers anything. He's been saving up for 14 days. I don't know, and I keep wondering why this place of work, even though it's been proven by the job's long search that there's no such worker, should stay 14 days at the employment desk? Because essentially this market test is what it is. I don't understand why we're bringing subjectiveism into this whole thing. Mrs. Angelova, I know this works with the Regulation. You say it's been checked, but who checked it for such a short period? Is there an analysis of what happened during that time and what would happen in the future? I continue to think that you will not support it. This is probably the right direction for you in the Law. It's okay. I wanted to point out to you that we are doing something that does not save anything, and it is not very good for employers. I will also draw your attention to the fact that it was no accident that the trade unions in their opinions showed that the entire Law was adopted unanimously by them, but declared themselves against art. 18. The employers' organizations also declared themselves against art. 18, however, with other motives. So I'm not telling you anything new. If you think that I am wrong, consider that the partners of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation also disagree with the texts of art. 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u71	Thank you. Are there any other statements? Mr. Martin Dimitrov, you also have an unsupported proposal. It's about the value of the employee's gross wage in the Bill is three times, you suggest 1.5 times, but you will explain it to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u72	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to start by saying that the bill is quality, well written, collecting measures that were in different laws, in one place. That's why we support him. Colleagues, there is a nuance that is as follows: each country must have its own strategy for attracting brains. I see that such a strategy has already been developed for Bulgaria and works. Before the Economic Commission came different employers' organizations. The Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, I also remember the Industrial Capital Association, which asked for the threshold for recruitment of workers without a market test to be lower. What's happening right now? Three average salaries for Bulgaria to date means about 2000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u73	Two thousand four hundred.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u74	The colleague Ademov complements me.. 2400 BGN. I have complete confidence in him on this matter. Currently, the threshold is BGN 2400. We're talking here, please don't get confused, the term is high-skilled specialists. That is, there are no waiters, waitresses, bartenders, bartenders and so on, there are no such things here, we're only talking about highly qualified specialists. Two thousand and four hundred leva may not be a problem for large cities, but if we want such specialists in the general concept of attracting brains from outside to attract them to smaller settlements, BGN 2,400. could be a barrier for Bulgaria. This is a very high salary for Bulgaria. I talked to colleagues, I won't tell which end of Bulgaria. Even one of the co-conspirators told me that in his election district he paid as BGN 2,400. In fact, there isn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u75	I'm sure it's in Haskovo.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u76	Therefore, we cannot write bills only for Sofia. Yes, I was born in Sofia, I was elected in Sofia, I protect these voters from the point of view that I have always appeared here in elections, but we cannot write bills only for big cities. We need to write a bill that is applicable everywhere in Bulgaria! And another thing: we shouldn't limit the attraction of brains just to IT specialists. Yes, perhaps this is the most important thing and the Minister of Labour and Social Policy is right and his team.. IT specialists are very important and should be part of the concept. However, we also need to attract other specialists - engineers, architects, which are not available in Bulgaria. Look at the procedure. The employers' organizations write a letter, an application to the Minister and his team for specialists, which is not available in Bulgaria, such as the labor market cannot provide highly qualified specialists in Bulgaria. A special committee shall then assess whether that request is justified or unfounded. If he considers that employers have requested engineers for example, we have that in Bulgaria there are the necessary engineers, it does not include this highly qualified profession on the list for which workers can be recruited without a market test. The Commission says: "We believe that there are such specialists in Bulgaria. Do your test, which means within 14 days the specialists within the labour offices to launch a notice and see if there are Bulgarian specialists who meet the same requirements. The topic that we are offering you now is me, colleague Delyan Dobrev, colleague Rumen Hristov, colleague Petar Kanev, representatives of different parliamentary groups, but everyone from the Economic Commission, we have all heard the request of employers' organizations, we say the following thing: colleagues, let's think about the threshold being lower! Salary of 2,400 leva. for a number of corners of Bulgaria can be a problem. Our strategy, and we must have a strategy, is attraction, including, but not only, ethnic Bulgarians from Macedonia, Ukraine, Moldova. They're not all computer experts, understand! Among them, however, there are highly qualified ones. Keep in mind that the world is becoming global, highly competitive. The more obstacles we create to their attraction, the less real they will come. The attraction of brains, however, is the true war of this century! Everyone's trying to attract brains. Bear in mind that the more flexible and smart we are, the more we will be able to cope with this global war. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Dear colleagues, I'm addressing you. We support the bill, but support this nuance of ours.. The threshold for recruitment of workers without a market test is 1.5 salaries, not three salaries, to be in practice 1200 BGN. This, for a number of parts of the country, for example, for the area of Mr. Ademov, will be very useful.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u77	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. The line, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's make the shade Mr. Dimitrov asks for. The employers are making the proposal for the list. Currently, it contains only ten types of professions in the IT sector. Ten species, there are no other drivers, engineers, as the National Employment Promotion Council, the National Labour Mobility and Labour Migration Council has proposed to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to draw up this list. This type of specialists employers in Bulgaria need. That's why they allow the faster track to be able to attract those brains you're talking about. This text helps employers, and it doesn't bother them. This text protects the labour market because national councils have trade unions. Understand, trade unions protect the labour market, that is, if you want a fast track once and a lower pay threshold within 1.5 average wages, this is not going to happen because the fast track implies a faster passage of procedures in which there is nothing wrong. However, the rapid procedure was paid with the three average wages accordingly. Look, in the sector we are talking about at the moment, which is on the list, the average salary for information of the National Revenue Agency, verified by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, is BGN 2000. Two thousand leva is the salary of experts from the IT sector. Currently, the Bulgarian labour market for information of the Employment Agency needs 1500 IT specialists. Why don't we give the fast track employers a chance to pay 400 BGN. more average per year?! That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u79	Thank you. Second line? I won't. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u80	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ademov, sometimes in politics it is so that whoever is closest to you physically has at least heard what you said. I don't know why this is happening. This also applies to many intelligent people, as Mr. Ademov is without any doubt. Look, colleagues, the world is so dynamic and global that we should not limit ourselves to IT specialists. That's what I was trying to tell you. Tomorrow we may have to find new plants in Bulgaria, I hope, to need other highly qualified specialists. Therefore, the idea that we are limited to IT professionals is not a good one. That is what I am trying to convince you. The world is so dynamic and although the list currently includes only such specialists, it does not mean that tomorrow there will be no other highly qualified specialties in the new list of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. That's what this means. Salary of 2400 BGN, colleagues, can be prohibited. That's what I was challenging you with, Mr. Ademov, and you didn't understand. Where you're elected, I don't know if anyone gets that average salary at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u81	There are no IT specialists in the area.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u82	I hope he gets it, but it sure as hell isn't a lot of people. It'll turn out to be the following thing. Certainly in the area where you have been selected, I do not know if there is a search for IT specialists, but there will be a search for other highly qualified specialists. What I was trying to challenge you with, colleagues from the Forty-third National Assembly, is this. We must and have our strategy for attracting brains, honourable colleagues! Attracting brains doesn't just mean attracting IT specialists. Therefore, the representatives of the Economic Commission are trying to provoke you and tell you the following thing. Let's leave the door a little more open than what you've done. If we do not attract these people, in the global competitive world they will go elsewhere. No one in modern competition sleeps anymore and waits for someone to invite him. There's no such thing! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The ideas in the Bill are very good. The idea of a fast track without a market test is excellent, just the barrier that you have entered from 2,400 BGN is high for one, unfortunately, still poor country, such as Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u83	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. I gave you half a minute more because I know you're a birthday boy and you deserve it. [[Radio.]] The Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Donev will have the floor, as we are talking about an expert debate, let us also hear the opinion of the Ministry. You have the floor, Mr. Donev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy supports the proposed project for art. 18 of the Labour Mobility and Labour Migration Act, as this text aims at several things. First, protection of the Bulgarian labour market. Second, the protection of employers' interest in terms of not allowing unfair competition and skipping over a short 14-day procedure, which is in fact art. 18 releases these employers, for whom all year before this employers have collected data that the Bulgarian labour market is not sufficiently prepared, there are no such highly qualified specialists with higher education in the relevant field in the relevant professional direction. They have made their proposal through the national representative employers' organisations to the National Employment Promotion Council and the National Employment Mobility and Labour Migration Council. In these two councils, for which Dr. Ademov emphasized, representatives of different ministries and departments, representatives of the social partners, employers' and trade unions, where this proposal of employers' organizations actually replaces this market test. They have collected this data for a year that there are no trained professionals in the Bulgarian labour market in the relevant professional direction. The decision taken by the joint meeting of the two national councils is actually proposed to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to be dressed with his order and those single groups and professions, which have actually been proven to have no trained specialists in Bulgaria, to be included in this order and employers, employing specialists from these single groups of professions, to benefit from a more relaxed procedure of reduction of the 14-day time limit for the market test, also removes the restriction of art. 7, para. 1, t. 2 for the 10% with foreigners and third-country nationals who can be employed in enterprises in Bulgaria. That's what Article actually says. 18. If the remuneration is reduced, the requirement of three average salaries for the 12 months preceding the appointment, or some other amount of this remuneration, would also discourage the Bulgarian citizens who seek their livelihood and work abroad. It is no secret that much of the Bulgarian citizens, precisely because of the low pay in some of the enterprises in Bulgaria, highly qualified specialists, seek their livelihoods and their realization abroad. So this three-time average salary for the 12 months preceding the appointment actually gives these Bulgarian citizens with high qualifications in the field to receive better remuneration, because you understand that a large part of the disincentive for young people to seek their realization, to start work is due to the low pay in Bulgaria. With this three times the average wage, we will give these young people a chance to find their realization on the Bulgarian labour market. Indeed, the procedure was carried out this year. On January 29th, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, by his order, defined these ten groups of single professions that could employ third-country nationals to such highly qualified positions that require high qualifications and higher education. Not only single groups of professions from the IT sector have been proposed. There were also offered several single groups of professions, but the two national councils for promoting employment and labour mobility and labour migration did not support the other proposals, which were for single specialists in some sectors for which there was no reasoned, reasoned proposal that there were no such specialists on the Bulgarian labour market. So the mechanism, which is set and acting now in the regulation, but is already being transferred to the Bill and is being proposed to become a legal text, in fact gives the opportunity to act objectively, to make an objective assessment of the extent to which a group of professions in Bulgaria lacks qualified specialists, the extent to which the Bulgarian labor market needs to be saved and to remove certain procedures and restrictions to these groups of professions. Our view is that art. 18 actually defends the Bulgarian labour market, allows Bulgarian young people and Bulgarian specialists with high qualifications to find their realization. It also enables Bulgarian employers or employers in Bulgaria to benefit from a lighter, shorter procedure and with the removal of certain restrictions to be able to employ such highly qualified specialists, brains from third countries, to be attracted to work, to give their added value on the Bulgarian labour market. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u85	Any other MPs? Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u86	Madam President, honourable Members! It is commendable to introduce this fast track into this Draft Amendment and Supplement. The question we are discussing today is whether this is the best threshold for this fast track. Whether it really should be three average salaries for the country, or should be two, for example. I am prepared to make a procedural proposal for two medium-sized salaries, not to be one and a half, so that we can differentiate art. Article 17 18. If there are one and a half average salaries in both places, then no one will do a market test, and everyone will try to use art. 18. I agree with that. However, I think it is better not to be three, but to be two, differentiated again, but to a lower coefficient on the average salary, because, as Mr. Martin Dimitrov mentioned, if the average salary in Bulgaria is about 700 BGN, three average wages mean BGN 2100. Two thousand and a hundred leva remuneration, first, on a geographical basis in the country probably only exists in Sofia. And in the province, Mr. Dimitrov also mentioned Haskovo, in the province I doubt, apart from possibly the mayor and the governor of the district perhaps, whether anyone else takes BGN 2100. payback. This is an extremely high remuneration for the province. We condemn the province to never be able to take advantage of this article. 18. This one first. Secondly, putting one such high threshold of BGN 2100. or 2400, as Mr. Martin Dimitrov said, perhaps he quotes Prof. Ademov, but these... [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] I understand that you mentioned it, so Mr. Martin Dimitrov was justified, but I assume that he suggests that the average wage in Bulgaria will grow and until we adopt this bill will become BGN 800. Three times 800 "2400 lv. Whether it is 2,100, whether it is 2,400 BGN, the threshold itself is discriminatory with regard to the education of people. Why would we, by setting such a threshold, give a competitive advantage, call it only the IT sector, where only this sector has such high remuneration? Why only in the IT sector, why not engineers? Why not highly qualified other specialists? I'll give you an example. There are already several industrial zones in Plovdiv that attracted billions of investments in Bulgaria. Only in Plovdiv! In my opinion, it is the most dynamically developing city in terms of foreign investment. There are already thousands of specialists working in these areas! In these areas, there are high-tech industries that most likely lack specialists from the region itself. These are productions - these specialists are not software, but engineers, mechanics. In this regard we say: In Plovdiv you can have a lot of investments, you can have more than 1 billion. EUR already in your industrial zones, there may be interest for another 2 billion. EUR, but we will not give you the opportunity with this high threshold of three times the average salary to continue the development of industrial zones, because for natural reasons you are limited by the highly qualified specialists at the disposal of the region. Let us think about the geographical impact of this coefficient 3, as well as whether we discriminate against certain highly qualified specialists against others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u87	Mr. Dobrev, I understand that in the text of the Commission you are making a formal proposal, instead of three times, to make it twice. The line, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Dobrev, I am glad that the discussion is going in this correct way. This is what it should be, as it is about, on the one hand, protection of the Bulgarian labour market, on the other hand, it is about highly qualified employment. You're wrong when you say he needs other specialists. This order by January 30th is updated annually and if there is a need for other specialists, employers, trade unions and all business representatives can offer the Minister of Labour to change it next year. This one first. That is, if there is a need for engineers, this is the protection of the Bulgarian labour market! If the National Council for Employment Promotion and the National Council for Labour Migration have not accepted other professions on this list, this means that there is no need for these professions on the Bulgarian market. If there is, next year the list will be updated. As far as this proposal is concerned, two medium-sized salaries. My fellow Members, we can offer two and a half less than we can because this is the directive. Here we are talking: can we attract highly qualified specialists from third countries in this fierce competition on the European labour market for these two medium wages?! For 500 €600, will someone from a third country come to Bulgaria or would they prefer to go to one of the other European countries? That's the big problem. Here is the protection of the Bulgarian labour market! I mean, he's dynamic. The order allows for protection of the Bulgarian labour market because if the minimum threshold for paying these highly specialized specialists with blue card from third countries is three average salaries for the country [[the President signals that time has run out]] The employer cannot appoint Bulgarian specialists with lower remuneration. This is the protection of Bulgarian specialists.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u89	Second line? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u90	Madam President, honourable Members! The real debate on the proposals made in the Bill is held at a meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Unfortunately, none of the importers Martin Dimitrov, Delyan Dobrev and Petar Kanev came to defend his proposal at a Commission meeting. It was there that they had to hear the expert opinion and especially the arguments derived from the practice of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, who disagreed with the proposal made by colleagues Martin Dimitrov, Petar Kanev and Delyan Dobrev. As Dr. Hassan Ademov said earlier, this is only about highly qualified specialists from the IT sector. For last year there were 1500 vacancies in Bulgaria, announced repeatedly in the IT sector. The average salary in the IT sector last year was BGN 2000, so this minimum threshold of three average wages for the country for the previous 12 months, which is BGN 2400. at present, it cannot have any impact on competition and be any threat to the Bulgarian labour market. At a meeting of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, we supported the proposal of the importer in the face of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to introduce such a minimum threshold of three average salaries for these highly qualified employees who will be employed without a market test.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u91	Third line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u92	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Dobrev, I do not agree with what you said that the governor and mayor in Haskovo are probably the only ones who receive such salaries in this area. In my opinion, they don't get over BGN 2,000 either. So you couldn't give an example with any person in Haskovo region who would receive a salary of over BGN 2000 in your speech. Look, guys, this is what we're talking about. In this list there will be professions of highly qualified specialists, which are not available on the internal market! There aren't any! So there is no way to harm Bulgarian workers in this way. We will attract brains, highly qualified specialists, which do not have enough on the Bulgarian market! There is no way we can harm Bulgarian workers. Next thing you know, if there's no fast, working track, there's a danger some of those brains that we want to attract go somewhere else. If at the same time plants are made in Bulgaria, Romania and Hungary and they have more flexible legislation than ours, it may be that these workers are going to Romania and Hungary because we have a more bureaucratic procedure. And thirdly, please, this is discrimination. Don't just talk about IT specialists. The world is so dynamic that tomorrow's application can be for other highly qualified specialists. Both you and we, none of this parliament in a dynamic market economy can say tomorrow what highly qualified specialists will need in Bulgaria! Imagine that there are dozens of new factories - none of us can predict this, and then the requests, the list of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy will be completely different! We must be ready without having to enter parliament and amend the law. Three average salaries for the country or 2100 BGN, or as Mr. Ademov said, 2400 is a problem. There are a number of areas in which such salaries are not paid. Then don't wonder why there is excess concentration in Sofia and the big cities! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Because of such legislation, colleagues, this excessive concentration of business in Sofia and the big cities is achieved because we, the people who write the legislation, are betting it to work only in large cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u93	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. We understand your point. A hole, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u94	Mr. Dimitrov, I'll start backwards first with your line. Not only are we protecting the working Bulgarians working on the Bulgarian labour market at the moment with the list, which is made every year, but we are protecting them for the future as well. That list is made every year. If there are no such specialists this year and they are used externally, next year, when they graduate young Bulgarians who are exactly in these specialties and are brains, immediately these specialties will be dropped from the list and will not be searched externally. The protection for the labour market is not only currently, it is also in the future, as the list is made every year. With regard to the reply of the colleague Angelova, we did not have the opportunity to attend the Commission, but we did not consider it so necessary, as the only change we make is editorial from 3 to 1.5. It is clear enough not to make further unnecessary explanations in the Committee on Social Policy. And not only that! The decision whether or not a proposal will pass is taken by the plenary and not by the Committee on Labour and Social Policy. Regarding Mr. Ademov's reply, you say that there is no one to come to Bulgaria to work for 500 EUR 600 salary. That's not the problem. With this text, we don't give them a chance. With a coefficient of 3 of these highly qualified specialists, we do not give them a chance to come to work at 500 EUR 600. We say to them, "Or you come to work here for 1100 euros or we don't want you." Even if you want to work for 500 s 600 euros, you can't because you have to go under art. 17 and he in his own right, so the fast track is good because of art. 17 in itself represents an administrative burden for all Bulgarian enterprises. There may be people who will come to Bulgaria to work for 500 EUR 600, but with this text we do not give them a chance. We say to them, 1100 minimum! You can't even ask for 800. Or 900, if you agree, can't because 1100 is with us because our coefficient is 3 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u95	Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Dobrev, you've been very soft. I would like to remind you that the laws in the Republic of Bulgaria are adopted not in the committees, but in plenary by the National Assembly. So whether you've been to present your proposals or not, it doesn't matter, no one's forcing you to do it. This can only happen if you have submitted a new bill. This is regarding the remark that almost made you as Satans that you did not appear. As far as the proposed texts are concerned. Those who are familiar with matter know that the directive requires a coefficient of 1.5. Pay attention! When we introduce the synchronization of European law with Bulgarian legislation, then we are very strict not to exceed anything. Now suddenly we become pò pope by the pope not a coefficient of 1.5, but 3. However, pay attention, colleagues, to something very important! If you are more interested, you will see that the so-called "free jobs" for highly skilled personnel by chance, I do not know why they are not announced for example within the European Union. Nobody knows there...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u97	There they are...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u98	Don't call, colleague Ademov! When you spoke, we listened to you. So listen up. There no one knows, for example, from our million and a half out of our brains, our children, many of them are very highly qualified, and believe me, the majority of them are white slaves, washing dishes with their high qualifications, picking raspberries, strawberries and so on with their high qualifications, for the humiliating remuneration of 500 I mean, these people, if they knew if they were informed, if they were given these conditions, that they could develop as specialists in the designated sector, you can be sure that some of them would have been back long ago. They would have already worked for Bulgaria. They themselves would develop and build themselves as highly qualified specialists, but this information is missing. It is not even foreseen in several laws, unfortunately. The right situation in this case, in order for companies to be amongst other things and competitive, because no one is saying that these companies have to produce, they have to have a very small degree of worth to be able to pay and, in fact, by increasing the coefficient to 3, you are turning them into uncompetitive on the market. Even if they want to, they can't hire workers. The question arises: why should these workers be from third countries, when they may be our Bulgarian citizens, that is, our children who have been banished for the last 25 years from Bulgaria? That's the point. Therefore, we will support the proposal of colleague Dimitrov for a coefficient of 1.5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u99	A line to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. Any other MPs? For procedure "Svetla Naydenova."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u100	Madam President, honourable Members! As it became clear from the debate that there are many different opinions regarding art. 18, I suggest we postpone his vote after the break, and now let's move on to the vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u101	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to postpone art. 18 to vote after recess. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 94 MPs: 77, against 10, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u102	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! As we are in proceedings, I would like to propose an extension of the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 654-01-24, with the date of submission of 25 February 2016, by another week, i.e. to the maximum permissible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u103	A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal for an increase in the time limit for proposals between first and second readings. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u104	Under art. 19 has a proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 19: Art. 19. The members of the family of the holder of the Blue Card of the European Union shall have the right to work on an employment relationship and to carry out freelance activities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the duration of its residence, subject to the requirements of art. Zzk, al. 3 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria by decision of the Executive Director of the Employment Agency for access to the labour market under this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u105	Statements under art. 19? I won't. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u106	Under art. 20 has a proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova, withdrawn during the discussion. A proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 20: Art. 20. (1) During the first two years of highly qualified employment, the holder of the Blue Card of the European Union may exercise activities meeting the conditions under which the Blue Card of the European Union was issued to him only on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) For the term under para. 1 The holder of the Blue Card of the European Union may change his employer only after receiving a written decision from the Employment Agency, under conditions and in accordance with the rules of application of the law. The text of the importer for art. 21 is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u107	Statements under art. Art. 20, Art. 21? I won't. We vote, colleagues, each block the two texts. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u108	Under art. 22 "A proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. To a third-country national who has violated the requirements of art. 20 and 21, the Blue Card of the European Union may be revoked or the renewal of the Blue Card of the European Union may be refused under the Order of the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Rules of Application. Under art. 23 supposed by the MPs Hasan Ademov, made according to the order of art. 80 of the Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. This Section shall not apply to third-country nationals who are: 1. adopted as researchers for the purpose of conducting a research project under an admission agreement is a research organisation; 2. seconded or dispatched within the framework of the provision of services; 3. authorised for seasonal worker; 4. received permission for freelance activity in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u109	Statements under art. Art. 22 and art. 23? I won't. I shall put the two Members to the vote in their version of the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. Both members have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u110	"Seasonary employment" division IV. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. Under art. 24 supposed by MP Mariana Todorova. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: Art. 24. (1) The permit for a seasonal worker shall be issued by the Ministry of Interior according to art. 24k of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and contains the decision provided by the Executive Director of the Employment Agency under art. 7, para. 3. (2) The decision under para. 1 shall be issued within 15 days of the application for seasonal work for a period of 90 days to 9 months within the calendar year. (3) Seasonal work up to 90 days according to art. 24l of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria is registered by the Employment Agency on the basis of the declaration lodged by the employer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u111	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the name of Section IV "Seasonary employment" and art. 24 in the version of the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u112	Under art. 25 has a proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25: Art. 25. (1) The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall establish a List of Economic Sectors involving activities that depend on the change of seasons. (2) The list under para. 1 shall be drawn up once after consultations at the National Council for Labour Migration and Labour Mobility and shall be notified to the European Commission. (3) In case of a change in the economic sectors, the list under para. 1 may be amended and supplemented in accordance with para. 2, notified to the European Commission. (4) The decision under art. 24, para. 1 shall be provided only for activities included in the list under para. 1 by not applying the provisions of Art. 1. 7, para. 1, t. One and two. Under art. 26 supposed by MP Mariana Todorova. The motion has been withdrawn. A proposal from the MP Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 26: Art. 26. Where the application for a decision under art. 24, para. 1 is rejected because of the fault of the employer he owes to the third-country national compensation, according to the Bulgarian legislation. Under art. 27 "A proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 27: Art. 27. (1) Transport costs from the place of origin of the seasonal worker to his place of employment in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be borne by the employer. The employer shall also bear the costs in the opposite direction. (2) At the expense of the employer are compulsory health insurance and insurance of the seasonal worker. (3) The costs under para. 1 and 2 shall not be reimbursed to the employer by the seasonal worker and shall not be deducted from his remuneration.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u113	Colleagues, speeches under Articles 25, 26 and 27? I won't. I put to the vote the three articles in their version of the Commission report. We vote. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u114	Under art. 28 supposed by the National Representative Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 28: Art. 28. (1) The employer shall provide the Employment Agency with evidence that the seasonal worker will be adequately provided, meeting all the requirements for safety and health, housing until the expiry of the contract. (2) The dwelling under para. 1 shall be provided by the employer or provided with his assistance. (3) For the use of the dwelling, the seasonal worker shall conclude a lease. (4) The rental price of the dwelling under para. 1 shall be consistent with the remuneration received by the seasonal worker and the quality of the dwelling and shall not be automatically deducted from the remuneration of the seasonal worker. (5) The employer shall inform the Employment Agency of any change of circumstances under para. 1-4. (6) In verification of the circumstances under para. 1-4 The Executive Agency is entitled to access the residence of the seasonal worker with his consent. Under art. 29 supposed by the National Representative Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 29: Art. 29. In cases referred to in art. 24k, para. 7 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria the seasonal worker can continue to work with the same employer or change it after a decision of the Executive Director of the Employment Agency. Under art. 30 "A proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30: Art. 30. This Section shall not apply to third-country nationals who: 1. carry out activities on behalf of undertakings established in another Member State within the framework of the provision of services within the meaning of art. 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, including when seconded by undertakings established in a Member State of the European Union; 2. together with the members of their families and regardless of their nationality, exercise their right to free movement in the European Union and the European Economic Area; 3. have been adopted as researchers for the purpose of conducting a research project under an admission agreement with a research organisation; 4. they have been authorised to carry out freelance activity in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u115	Statements, colleagues, by members with numbers 28, 29 and 30? I won't. I shall vote on the three Articles of Anblock in the version of the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 79, against none, abstention 1. All three members have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u116	"Department V "Integrate transfer". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. Article 31. Proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 31: Art. 31. (1) The authorisation of a person moved under an intra-corporate transfer shall be granted by the Ministry of Interior under art. 33p of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and contains the decision issued by the Executive Director of the Employment Agency under art. 7, para. 3. (2) When granting the decision under para. The provisions of Article 1 shall not apply. 7, para. 1, t. 1 and 2. (3) The decision under para. 1 gives the right to a third-country worker, to work in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria only for a specific admission undertaking or group of enterprises and only for the............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (4) The receiving undertaking shall inform the Employment Agency of any change relating to the procedure for granting the decision under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32: Art. 32. (1) The working conditions for workers of third-country nationals moved under intra-corporate transfer shall be governed by the terms and conditions for seconded or dispatched workers within the framework of the provision of services within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) A third-country national may work in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria on the basis of a permit for continued residence for the purposes of intra-corporate transfer for a period of up to: 1. three years for those working as managers and specialists; 2. one year for workers as interns. Article 33. Proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 33: Art. 33. The family members of an intra-corporate transfer shall be entitled to work on an employment relationship and freelance activity in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period of residence of the person transferred under an intra-corporate transfer subject to the requirements of art. 33q of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, with a decision of the Executive Director of the Employment Agency for access to the labour market under this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u117	Colleagues, speeches on the name of Section V I won't. We vote. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously, these texts have also been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u118	Article 34. A proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova, withdrawn during the discussion. Proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34: Art. 34. The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall refuse to submit the decision under Article 1. 31, para. 1 where it appears from the documents submitted that the acceptance undertaking was created for the sole purpose of facilitating the relocation of third-country nationals for the purposes of intra-corporate transfer. Article 35. Proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 35: Art. 35. This Section shall not apply to third-country nationals who: 1. apply for a residence permit and work as researchers; 2. exercise their right to free movement in the European Union and the European Economic Area; 3. are posted or sent within the framework of the provision of services; 4. have been authorised to carry out freelance activity in the Republic of Bulgaria; 5. have been accepted in a regular form of training at a university or undergo short-term practical training as part of the training; 6. are employed by undertakings providing temporary work or by other undertakings providing workers to carry out work under the supervision and management of another undertaking; 7. have been adopted as researchers for the purpose of conducting a research project under an admission agreement with a research organisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u119	Colleagues, speeches on members with numbers 34 and 35? I won't. Anblok, we are voting on the wording of these articles on the Commission report. 70 MPs voted: 69, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted. Before Section VI, we'll make a break. Dear colleagues, an exhibition dedicated to the Day of the Constitution and to the 200th anniversary of the birth of Ekzarh Antim I will be opened during the holidays. The exhibition presents the originals of the four Bulgarian constitutions, personal belongings of Ekzarh Antim I and the Presidential bell from the Constitutional Assembly in Veliko Tarnovo. All MPs are invited to attend the opening. Holiday till 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u120	Honourable Members of Parliament, the meeting is continuing. Mr. Ademov, report Section VI "Employment of researchers, students and interns."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u121	"Department VI".................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI. Under art. 36 has a proposal of the MP Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 36: Art. 36. (1) Citizens of third countries who have been accepted as researchers for the purpose of conducting a research project under an admission agreement with a research organisation shall be employed in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria without permission to work for the duration of the project. (2) The cases under para. 1 shall be registered with the Employment Agency of the host research organisation. Under art. 37 has a proposal of the MP Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 37: Art. 37. The members of the family of a third-country national shall have the right to work in employment and freelance in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period of beating of the researcher, subject to the requirements of art. 24b, para. 7 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, with a decision of the Executive Director of the Employment Agency for access to the labour market under this law. Under art. 38 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 38: Art. 38. (1) Citizens of third countries who are students in a regular form of education in a higher school in the Republic of Bulgaria may exercise short-term employment after registration by the employer at the Employment Agency within 7 days from the beginning, subject to the requirements of art. 24c of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria: 1. to 20 hours a week during the school year, and 2. during the officially declared vacations for the relevant university. (2) Alinea 1 shall also apply to employment for up to 6 months within 12 months in relation to the conduct of a teaching practice directly related to the subject of the training of the students under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Under art. 39 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39: Art. 39. The terms and conditions of registration under this Section shall be determined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. "Department VII" "Request for work". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII. Under art. 40 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made according to the order of art. 80. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 40: Art. 40. (1) The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall issue a work permit at the request of a local employer or a local person accepting a posting or dispatching from a third country employee on the basis of which it is issued by the Ministry of Interior a permit for long stay under art. 24, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The permission to work under para. 1 is issued for: 1. seconded or dispatched workers and employees.. nationals of third countries within the framework of the provision of services in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. members of a family of a third-country national who has been authorised to stay on the grounds of art. 24, para. 1, t. 13 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria; 3. other cases are aimed at employment of third-country nationals not covered by this Chapter. (3) The permission to work under para. 1 shall be issued in accordance with Article 1. 7, para. 1, t. 4 within 30 days after the expiry of the term referred to in Article 4. 7, para. 3 in a model approved by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. (4) The terms and procedures for issuing, refusing and withdrawing employment permits for third-country nationals in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be laid down by the rules for the enforcement of the law. Under art. 41 there is a proposal of the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 41: Art. 41. (1) The permission to work under art. 40, para. 1 shall be issued for a period of up to one year. (2) The term under para. 1 for workers in employment may be continued if the conditions for the initial issue have not been exhausted. (3) The term under para. 1 for posted or dispatched workers and employees may be extended exceptionally for up to 12 months if the activity requires exceeding the initial declared duration. (4) For the extension of the authorisation, the employer or the local person receiving the employment of the persons referred to in art. 40, para. 2, p. 1 and 2 shall pay the fee referred to in Article 2. 7, para. 8. (5) For re-issue of the authorisation under art. 40, para. 1 due to loss, damage or destruction of documents is paid a fee of 200 BGN Under art. 42 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 42: Art. 42. The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall refuse to issue or continue the authorisation under Article 1. 40, para. 1 where: 1. there are the grounds under Article 1. 11; 2. the requirements established by other regulations for the exercise of the specified profession by a foreigner in the country are not met; 3. to the worker of a third-country national is imposed a limit for issuing a visa and entering the country on the basis of art. 10 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Under art. 43 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made according to the order of art. 80. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 43: Art. 43. (1) The authorisation under art. 40, para. 1 shall be withdrawn by decision of the Executive Director of the Employment Agency where: 1. it is established that false data are presented for the granting of the authorisation; 2. the control bodies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shall establish that the employment of the worker of a third-country national does not correspond to the position, place of employment, employer or employee designated in the authorisation; 3. the residence permit of a third-country national in the country has not been issued or revoked under the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria; 4. to the worker a third-country national is imposed a limit for issuing a visa and entering the country on the basis of art. 10 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) For the revoked permission to work under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 The Employment Agency shall notify the third-country national, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State Agency of National Security. (3) Within three days of notification under para. 2 the third-country national is obliged to return the employment permit to the Employment Agency. (4) The decision to issue a work permit shall be revoked where the authorisation fee has not been lodged within one month of receipt of the notification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u122	Colleagues, are there any statements under Sections VI and VII involving members with numbers from 36 to 43 inclusive? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Section VI and the name of Section VII by importer, supported by the Commission, together with the amendments to the Commission report of Members with numbers 36 to 43 inclusive. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The proposals have been adopted unanimously. Colleagues, we're going back to the suspended art. 18. This is Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Kalfin. You have the floor, Mr. Kalfin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I would like to put out several arguments to protect what we have proposed by the Council of Ministers for legislation, and that is, when there is a so-called 'fast track' or 'accelerated procedure' for issuing permission to a foreign worker to work on our market, to have certain requirements and one of these requirements is that the employer is ready to pay three medium-sized salaries for the country. This was done as before the Law was adopted, with a change in regulations since the beginning of this year on the strong insistence of the information technology companies there were no protests, this thing worked and in practice what is being shortened is the so-called "market test." At the moment, in order for a foreign worker to come to the Bulgarian market, in a Bulgarian enterprise, he must request information from the labor bureaus about whether there is such a registered specialist on the Bulgarian market and, if there is not, within two weeks, he receives permission and imports the relevant foreign worker. Since changing the market test, it makes sense when it comes to chronic lack of staff and many specialists, which would be in the IT sector. I understand that some colleagues want to significantly extend these opportunities, including by reducing the wage requirement of various types of engineering specialities and others, but I must tell you that from business there are demands, including those related to staff in tourism, waiters, cooks and so on, to be imported in this order. My opinion is that this thing is unacceptable. We cannot open up a country not only in the European Union and outside Europe, which thus opens its labour market without encouraging its national citizens first to take the relevant position and then, if there are no national specialists, then to open its market to foreign citizens. That is why we have introduced these higher requirements and we promise a faster track for really proven such specialties. The reduction of wage requirements, which you offer from three to two, means that the difference between the normal market test procedure and the accelerated procedure will practically be related to the employer's commitment to pay somewhere around 300 BGN. gross more salary, which is absolutely pointless. This means that every employer will want his profession or the people who work with him to enter the accelerated track, which makes it meaningless. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I suggest that you support what works, which was agreed with the information technology companies, which we have already done for them this year, and not open the door for additional relief for foreign citizens where Bulgarian specialists can be found. As far as the fast track requires a list that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy must sign at the beginning of the year, I would like to inform you that I have no intention, despite the changes in the Law, to expand this list and I have no intention of giving better conditions to foreign citizens on the Bulgarian market than those for Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u124	Other MPs with an opinion and position under art. 18 and the proposals made on it? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. First, I vote on the proposal of the MPs Georgi Gokov and Dragomir Stoynev for dropping of art. 18 by importer. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 86 MPs: 17 against 36, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Rumen Hristov, Delyan Dobrev and Petar Kanev, who offer three times... [[Reply by MP Martin Dimitrov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u125	You're withdrawing him?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u126	We have an editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u127	Editorial by getting to the Commission's version. Are you withdrawing that?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u128	We're pulling him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u129	You withdraw this offer. In the version of the Commission of art. 18, para. 3, Mr. Dobrev suggested at least three times that it be at least twice. I put to the vote this editorial proposal of Mr. Dobrev. Vote 87 MPs: 67 against 2, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Now we vote the entire version of art. 18 on the Commission report, in line with the decision we have just adopted. Vote 89 MPs: 81 against 5, abstention 3. Article 18 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u130	"Section VIII................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VIII. Under art. 44 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 44: Art. 44. (1) The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall grant permission to carry out a freelance activity by a third-country national after submitting a detailed activity plan for the duration of the authorisation on the basis of which it is issued by the Ministry of Interior for a long stay or long-stay visa pursuant to art. 24a of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The permission to carry out freelance activity under para. 1 shall be issued within 30 days after the expiry of the period referred to in Article 1. 7, para. 3 in a model approved by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, subject to art. 7, para. 1, t. 1 and 4. (3) The terms and procedure for issuing, refusing and withdrawing permission to carry out freelance activities of third-country nationals in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be determined by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45. Under art. 46 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 46: Art. 46. (1) Any change in the personal data and circumstances declared in the application for freelance activity and in the documents applied after the start of the activity must be claimed by the third-country national to the Employment Agency within 7 days of the occurrence of the change. (2) The Executive Director of the Employment Agency shall approve changes to the activity plan if it will not adversely affect the activity carried out and the commitments made by the third-country national therein. (3) No change in the subject matter of the activity shall be allowed for the period of the first freelance authorisation granted. (4) A third-country national who is in temporary difficulty or inability to carry out the freelance activity shall notify the Employment Agency within 7 days. Under art. 47 has a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 47: Art. 47. The issuing or continuing authorisation for freelance activities by third-country nationals shall be refused in the following cases: 1. the third-country national has not submitted the necessary documents; 2. the submitted plan of activity or the report of its implementation is not justified or has not been proven economic or public effect; 3. it is established from the documents submitted that the third-country national intends to carry out employment work; 4. the third-country national has submitted documents before the expiry of 12 months from the date of withdrawal of a previous authorisation for freelance activity; 5. the third-country national has failed to fulfil his obligations under the Social Security Code and his tax obligations; 6. a third-country national is subject to a visa and entry restriction on grounds of art. 10 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Under art. 48 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 48: Art. 48. (1) The permission to carry out a freelance activity by a third-country national shall be revoked by decision of the Executive Director of the Employment Agency where: 1. it has been established that the third-country national has declared incorrect personal data or has not notified the Employment Agency of the change under art. 46, para. 1 and 2 within 7 days of the occurrence of the change; 2. the Executive Director of the Employment Agency did not approve the change under art. 46, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. the third-country national who is in default; 4. within the last 12 months the difficulties or inability to carry out the activity continue more than: (a) three months if the third-country national has been freelance in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for less than two years; (b) six months if the third-country national has been freelance in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for two years or more; 5. the control bodies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shall establish a gross or systematic violation of labour law in respect of persons employed in the performance of the activity; 6. a compulsory administrative measure has been imposed on the third-country national under the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria; 7. The residence permit of the foreigner in the country has not been issued or revoked under the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) For the revoked permission to carry out freelance activity under para. 1, t. 1-6 The Employment Agency shall notify the third-country national, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State Agency of National Security. (3) Within three days of notification under para. 2 The third-country national shall return the permission to carry out a freelance activity to the Employment Agency. (4) The decision to grant permission to carry out a freelance activity shall be revoked where the fee for granting the authorisation has not been lodged within one month of receipt of the notification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Honourable Members, speeches under Section VIII, on the title and, respectively, the articles contained therein from 44 to 48 inclusive? There aren't any. Honourable Members, voting regime. We are voting together on the name of Section VIII, plus the Commission's proposal for Articles 44 to 48. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to Chapter Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u132	? Chapter 3??????????????????????????????????????????????????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. Under art. 49 there is a proposal made by the MP Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 49: Art. 49. (1) Citizens of another Member State of the European Union, of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation who have exercised their right to free movement shall, in their stay in the Republic of Bulgaria, have all rights and obligations under the Bulgarian laws and international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party, except those for which Bulgarian citizenship is required. (2) The citizens of third countries, holders of a single residence and work permit, of the Blue Card of the European Union and of the Authorisation for a seasonal worker shall be equal to the Bulgarian citizens in respect of: 1. access to information about announced vacancies; 2. the use of mediation in information and employment; 3. working conditions, including pay, working hours and breaks, termination of the employment relationship, minimum age for starting work, participation in collective bargaining; 4. safety and health at work; 5. the conditions for access, subjecting to obligations and the use of social security rights within the framework of European Union law; 6. access to goods and services, including public; 7. education and vocational training; 8. the recognition of diplomas for completed education; 9. the recognition of certificates and other evidence of professional qualifications in accordance with the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications; 10. the payments of acquired statutory pensions for old age, disability and death relating to revenue and for previous employment, of an amount applicable under the law of the Member State or Member States concerned when moving to a third country, without prejudice to the provisions of Regulation (EU) No 1231/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 extending the scope of Regulation (EC) No 883/2004 and of Regulation (EC) No are not yet covered by those Regulations solely on the grounds of their nationality and existing bilateral agreements with third countries; the same shall apply to payments for their spouses; 11. freedom of association, accession and membership in organisations of workers and employees or employers, as well as in professional and conditional organisations, including with regard to the privileges granted by such membership, except where by law, statutes or other legal act Bulgarian citizenship is required, without prejudice to public order and public security; 12. the rights to use tax benefits under the terms and conditions of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. (3) Within the scope of para. 2, p. 5 does not include family allowances and unemployment benefits where the permit is issued for employment of up to 9 months. (4) The conditions under para. 2 do not prevent the imposition of administrative coercion measures under Chapter 5 of the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria. Under art. 50 has a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 50: Art. 50. (1) From the rights under art. 49, para. 2 third-country nationals with allowed long-term or permanent residence in the Republic of Bulgaria under the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria shall also enjoy. (2) When using the law under art. 49, para. 2, p. 7 is included also access to scholarships under the order for Bulgarian citizens. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 53: Art. 53. (1) As regards the terms and conditions of employment in the Republic of Bulgaria, workers of third-country nationals moved under intra-corporate transfer shall enjoy the right of equal treatment with posted workers and employees in the framework of the provision of services. (2) Citizens of third countries under para. 1 are equal to the Bulgarian citizens in respect of the rights under art. 49, para. 2, p. 4-10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 54.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Honourable Members, speech on the name of Chapter 3 and the proposed by the Commission Members with numbers 49 to 54 inclusive? There aren't any. We vote on the name of Chapter 3 and the proposed and edited texts of the importer for art. 49-54 inclusive. Vote 75 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u134	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to re-vote the text of art. 15 in view of the need to carry out an editorial amendment in art. 15, para. 4 t. 5 where, in the definition of "professional sports clubs', the adjective "professional' is to remain "sport clubs'. If you allow it, Mr. Chairman, I'll explain why it's a mistake.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u135	Sure, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u136	In this definition, the scope of the measure is limited to football clubs which, according to the Bulgarian legislation, are registered as joint stock companies. All other professional sports clubs under the Sports Act are non-profit legal entities, which means that volleyballs, basketballs, all other professional clubs are out of range simply because of this division in the Sports Act specifically regarding professional football clubs. In order for the regime to be equal to all professional sports clubs, only the generic notions of sports clubs should remain. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u137	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A counteroffer? I won't. Dear colleagues, we are now going to reschedule art. 15. First we will vote on the editorial proposal made by Mr. Kirilov in the same article. 15, para. 4 t. 5 to drop the word "Professional" and to remain only sportsmen and coaches in sports clubs. Please vote on the editorial proposal made. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. Now, honourable Members, we will vote the entire article. 15 together with the editorial proposal. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We return to the Commission's main report, Chapter Four, respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u138	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. Under art. 55 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 55: Art. 55. (1) The right to free movement of Bulgarian workers in the territory of the European Union, the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation, as well as of workers of other Member States of the European Union, a State of the European Economic Area or of the Swiss Confederation in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be guaranteed by art. 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and is implemented in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 492/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2011 on the free movement of workers in the Union. (2) Citizens of another Member State of the European Union, of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation who have exercised their right to free movement in Bulgaria may seek protection under the legal order in cases where they are: 1. harmed as a result of unjustified restrictions and obstacles to exercising their right to free movement; 2. affected by non-compliance with the principle of equal treatment against them, even after the relationship claiming that restrictions, obstacles or discrimination have arisen has been terminated. (3) For the realization of the rights of the persons under para. 1 The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Employment Agency shall cooperate with the relevant state institutions of the other Member States of the European Union, of States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 56. Article 57 supposed by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 57: Art. 57. All issues relating to the exercise of the right to free movement of workers are discussed at the National Council on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. Article 58 supposed by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 58: Art. 58. (1) The terms and conditions of secondment of workers and staff from the Member States of the European Union, from the States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or from the Swiss Confederation shall be determined by a regulation of the Council of Ministers. (2) The conditions and procedures for the exercise of a regulated profession in the Republic of Bulgaria by nationals of Member States of the European Union, of States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation in employment or as self-employed persons shall be determined in accordance with the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications. Article 59 supposed by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 59: Art. 59. (1) The Bulgarian citizens and nationals of another Member State of the European Union, of a State Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation, who have exercised the right of free movement within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, may enjoy intermediary employment services under the Law on Employment Promotion. (2) The conditions and procedures for the conduct of intermediary employment activities in other countries by the persons referred to in art. 27, para. 2, p. 2 and 3 of the Employment Promotion Act shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 28, para. 8 of the same law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u139	Thank you. Honourable Members, speeches on the name of Chapter 4 and the texts of Articles 55 to 59 inclusive? I don't see anyone who wants to. We vote on the name of Chapter 4 plus the texts of the importer, supported and edited by the Commission, for Articles 55 to 59, including the report. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The texts were adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u140	"Chapter 5" - Two-sided regulation of employment with third countries. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. Article 60 supposed by MP Mariana Todorova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 60: Art. 60. Bulgarian citizens under this law can work in another country according to their national legislation and/or under conditions and by order, regulated by an international contract for the exchange of labour force to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country: 1. by concluding a contract with an employer from the country concerned through an intermediary within the meaning of the Employment Promotion Act; 2. being seconded by their employer; 3. under the conditions of intra-corporate transfer to a third country. Article 61 supposed by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 61: Art. 61. Employers and intermediaries under art. 60 cannot negotiate for Bulgarian citizens working conditions and remuneration below the minimum for the host country under its national legislation. Article 62 supposed by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 62: Art. 62. (1) The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall negotiate and conclude, on the basis of a decision of the Council of Ministers, international contracts for regulating labour migration with third countries as well as employment. (2) Contracts under para. 1 may be concluded with third countries in the event of mutual interest and taking into account the development of the European Union's policy towards third countries, as well as of European initiatives to which the Republic of Bulgaria has joined. (3) To ensure the social rights of the employees of the two Contracting Parties, the contracts under para. 1 priority is to conclude with countries with which bilateral social security contracts are concluded or negotiated. (4) The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall give instructions on the implementation of the international employment contracts to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country unless otherwise provided.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u141	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members, by the name of Chapter 5 and Articles 60, 61 and 62? There aren't any. Voting regime for the name of Chapter 5 plus proposals of the importer, supported and edited by the Commission, for Articles 60, 61 and 62. Vote 74 MPs: 72, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u142	sixth "Working and Social Affairs Services." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. Article 63 supposed by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 63: Art. 63. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy shall cooperate with the relevant institutions of other countries in the field of labour and social security relations on: 1. national labour and social security legislation and employment legislation for foreigners; 2. the Bulgarian nationals employed in the territory of the country concerned and the nationals of the country concerned in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 3. established violations of the terms and conditions of employment, including mediation and bilateral employment contracts and regulation of labour migration; 4. established cases of illegal activity and abuse of social rights of Bulgarian citizens in the territory of the country and of citizens of the country concerned in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Article 64 supposed by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 64: Art. 64. (1) For the implementation of the activities under art. 63 for the protection of the rights of Bulgarian workers in other countries the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy supports and develops a network of services on labour and social issues in the respective overseas representations of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The offices of para. 1 shall be disclosed on a proposal from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, in consultation with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. (3) In the services under para. 1 Long-term seconded employees of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with a temporary diplomatic rank under the Law on the Diplomatic Service, appointed after a competition under conditions and by order laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of this Law. (4) In the implementation of its specific activities, the services under para. 1 shall be led by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy in agreement with the Minister of Foreign Affairs. (5) The conditions and procedures for carrying out the activities of the employment and social services shall be determined by an act of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy in consultation with the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u143	Colleagues, speeches on Chapter VI and Articles 63 and 64? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, since I see that half of you are looking at your tablets and phones, other...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u145	How did you see that?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u146	Not only do I see that I even filmed you, but whatever! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Now don't call, ma'am. Open your ears.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u147	Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u148	And you, bring order to the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u149	Please, no lines! You'll have a chance to replicate. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u150	It's not enough that you haven't secured the hall and I'm bleeding from my leg right now because I ripped it off on the foot, well... [[Laughter, excitement. Replies from the National Representative Tsvetomir Mihov.]] ) Would you like to bring order? Come and say that here, from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u151	I'll introduce you, Mr. Bayraktarov, but why is it only you? Colleagues, I'm asking for order so we can hear Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u152	Come and tell me this here, from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u153	Here you are, you have the floor to speak. Mr. Mihov, I'm paying attention to you that you're making an early reply to Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u154	And insulting at what you closed your eyes to instead of applying art. 151. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] First, I propose art. 64 to be dropped for one simple reason. It has absolutely no financial justification. Would anyone from the Ministry explain how much this will cost the Bulgarian taxpayer to open a parallel diplomatic service in Bulgarian embassies and consulates around the world? They don't even know what they're gonna do, considering that Article. 63 clearly and clearly regulates that the Ministry is interacting with the relevant labour institutions. Not only will they be able to communicate, conclude intergovernmental agreements, agreements and so on, but on top of that, we will open up a parallel service with diplomatic status that is not known what it will do, who and how it will defend? I ask how she will protect a Bulgarian citizen who is governed by the laws of labour law, for example in Germany and works on a work contract with a German company. I'm very interested in how this so-called Ministry of Defence will protect him, with diplomatic status posted, which means he will receive at least 10,000. lv. salary, because such are the missions under the Convention, has all the privileges, not to pay taxes and so on, both he and his family! I ask: who is needed, except for purely political influence on Bulgarians living abroad?! Don't you dare, Mr. Donev. [[turned to Deputy Minister Galab Donev]] because this is what you do, as you did in the Employment Promotion Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u155	Mr. Bajraktarov, I will remove you from the stand in the next unauthorized intervention on your part.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u156	You had to take out someone else in the gym, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u157	Don't tell me what I was supposed to do!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u158	And you don't tell me! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And you tell us, and don't censor me, because when we talked about the Employment Promotion Act, that there are corrupt texts, they're already a fact! The media colleagues took them out. But now everyone's quiet! Everyone is silent, but the facts are facts! That's why I'm warning you now and I'm offering art. 64 to be cast aside, and when the time comes, it best shows who was right and who was wrong. And the mice in the back shut up! [[(Noise and shout from DPS and GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u159	First line? I won't. [[GERB lines.]] Colleagues of the Chamber, please do not engage in dialogue. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal for dropping out of art. 64. We vote on Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal for rejection of art. 64. Vote 85 MPs: 10, against 51, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the name of Chapter VI to the vote together with art. 63 and 64 on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u160	"Chapters 1 and 2 of this Annex" shall be replaced by the following: The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter VII. Under art. 65 has a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 65: Art. 65. (1) The Republic of Bulgaria shall provide the European Commission with statistics on the number of third-country nationals authorised to access the labour market for the first time and on the number of third-country nationals whose authorisation has been extended or withdrawn. Data shall be provided by the relevant categories of workers for which this is provided in the labour migration directives. (2) The data under para. 1 shall be granted, distributed by nationality, period of validity of the decision and economic sector. (3) The data under para. 1 shall be made available to the European Commission within six months of the end of the year concerned in accordance with Regulation (EC) No 862/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 on Community statistics on migration and international protection and repealing Council Regulation (EEC) No 311/76 on the production of statistics on foreign workers (OB, L 199/23 of 31 July 2007) and relate to reference periods of one calendar year. (4) For the provision of statistical data under para. 1 and 2 The Employment Agency and the Ministry of Interior shall provide the National Statistical Institute with all necessary output data. ..Chapter Eight................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Eight. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u161	Statements on chapters 7 and 8...................................................................................................... 65 and 66? I won't. Anblock, we vote on the names of both chapters and the two terms. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u162	..Chapter Nine....Manufacturer. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Ninth. Under art. 67 supposed by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 67: Art. 67. (1) The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall exercise overall control over compliance with the law. (2) The specialized control activity shall be carried out by the Executive Agency. Under art. 68 supposed by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 68: Art. 68. (1) The control bodies referred to in art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning 1. visit at any time the places where work is carried out or profession is exercised, or benefit from workers and employees, as well as require persons present in their territory to be legitimized with personal documents; 2. require written explanations and information from the natural and legal persons examined, as well as the provision of certified copies of all necessary documents and references; 3. shall be directly informed by the employees of all matters relating to the exercise of control, to require them to declare in writing facts and circumstances relating to the work carried out, including data on the payment of labour, as well as the grounds for residence of foreigners. (2) The control bodies referred to in art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market 1. check the received alerts for infringements according to the rules and conditions laid down in the Bulgarian legislation; 2. shall not disclose the information forming a public, professional or commercial secret which has become known to them in connection with the exercise of control; 3. do not use the information received for their own or other benefit; 4. keep secret the source from which they received a signal of violation. (3) In the event of the establishment of offences containing evidence of a criminal offence, the control bodies shall notify the prosecution. Article 69 supposed by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 69: Art. 69. (1) Employers, officials, employees, local persons who have received seconded workers and employees from the Member States of the European Union or seconded workers and employees from third countries shall assist the control bodies in carrying out their functions. (2) For violations of this law and of international treaties under art. 62 employers, employees, employers' organisations and employees have the right to alert the Executive Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u163	Colleagues, speeches on Chapter 9........ and members with numbers from 67 to 69 inclusive? I won't. We vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u164	Article 70 "A proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 70: Art. 70. (1) Citizens of third countries, who are illegally employed and seasonal workers, may, in person or through their authorised natural or legal persons, signal the Executive Agency a Chief Labour Inspectorate for violations of art. 13, para. 1 committed by their employer. (2) Third parties having a proven legitimate interest in compliance with art. 13, para. 1 have the right to participate on behalf of or in support of a third-country national who is illegally employed and a seasonal worker, with his consent, in the administrative and civil proceedings provided for under this law and under the Law on Administrative Violations and Penalties. (3) The cooperation under para. 1 and 2 of third-country nationals who are illegally employed shall not be considered to support illegal residence. (4) The authorization under para. 1 and the consent under para. 2 are in writing with a notary certification of the signatures. Article 71 supposed by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 71: Art. 71. (1) On the basis of a risk assessment, the Executive Agency shall exercise control over the employment of foreigners. (2) The assessment of the risk under para. 1 shall be carried out with a view to identifying economic activities and sectors where it is observed or possible to employ illegally staying foreigners. (3) The assessment of the risk under para. 1 shall be carried out on the basis of an analysis of available data on the supply and demand of a workforce, including foreigners, by activity and sector, the level of payment offered, registered infringements and other data which may have an impact on the identification of infringements of the prohibition under art. 13, para. 1. (4) The risk assessment under para. 1 may also be carried out in respect of the illegal employment of legal residents in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 72. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 73. Article 74 supposed by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 74: Art. 74. The Executive Agency shall keep on its website an up-to-date list of employers who have been subject to an administrative penalty for the employment of illegally staying foreigners for the last 5 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u165	Colleagues, statements from art. Art. 70 to art. 74, including? I won't. We are voting on the texts on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u166	Chapter 10 of the Administrative Penal Provisions. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 10a. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 75. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 76. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 77. There is a proposal from the National Representative Mariana Todorova to create a new art. 78. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 78: Art. 78. (1) Where there is no other penalty for breach of this law, guilty persons shall be subject to a fine or penalty of 1500 to 15 000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is repeated, a fine or a penalty of 5000 to 20 000 BGN is imposed...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Article 78, which becomes Art. 79, as in para. 4 the word "Authorised' is replaced by "Authorised'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u167	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we vote on the name of Chapter Tenth "Administrative Penal Provisions'; Articles 75, 76 and 77 by importer, supported by the Commission; the new article. 78 in the version of the Commission; and Article 78 in the version of the Commission; 78 by importer, which becomes art. 79, with the replacement of the word "authorized" with "authorized" in para. 4. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The texts were adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u168	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Paragraph 1. There is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. The highest-skilled employment is the employment of a person who has the competence required for the work concerned. The higher education acquired, which is certified by a diploma, certificate or other document issued by a competent authority after a training period of not less than three years, held by an educational institution recognised as a higher school by the State concerned. 2. The second Member State shall be the Member State within the meaning of Paragraph 1, point. 1c of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. In the case of a third-country national, an undertaking having its registered office or management address outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with which the citizen has a contract of employment, a subsidiary of the undertaking or an undertaking belonging to the same group of undertakings, having its registered office or an address of management in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 4. He is a third-country national who is not a national of the Republic of Bulgaria and is not a national of a Member State of the European Union or of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area or of the Swiss Confederation. 5. The group of undertakings is two or more connected undertakings such as: one undertaking in respect of the other undertaking directly or indirectly holds a pre-eminent share of the subscribed capital of the second undertaking; controls most of the votes relating to the share capital issued by the second undertaking; has the right to appoint more than half of the members of the administrative, management or supervisory body of the second undertaking, or undertakings under the single management of the parent undertaking. 6. The application procedure is the procedure within the meaning of Paragraph 1, point. 1f of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 7. A single residence and work permit is the document within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 1e of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 8. In the framework of the provision of services, a worker of a Member State of the European Union or a third-country national who, within a certain period, carries out work on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as defined in the contract of employment with an employer, whose registered office is in the territory of another Member State of the European Union or of a third country. 9. "Person of Bulgarian origin" is a person within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 6 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 10. A person moved under an intra-corporate transfer is any third-country national who, during the application for a residence permit and work of a person moved under an intra-corporate transfer, resides outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 11. "Local employer" is a person active in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria registered under Bulgarian law or under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union, of a State of a State of a State of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation. 12. "Local person employed by seconded or seconded workers or employees' is a person active in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria registered under the Bulgarian law or under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union, of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation, who uses the services of an posted or dispatched worker or employee from the Member States of the European Union or from third countries for his activity. 13. The employment of a third-country national is illegal for the employment of an illegal resident in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the employment or admission of a third-country national without the relevant permission or registration by the Employment Agency. 14. "Unlawful resident' is a person within the meaning of § 1, point (c). 36 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 15. A repeated infringement is the infringement committed within one year of the entry into force of the act imposing a penalty on the violator for the same type of infringement. 16. "Acceptable enterprise" is a subsidiary of the enterprise or enterprise belonging to the same group of enterprises, with its registered office or management address in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, to which the worker is transferred, a third-country national, under an intra-corporate transfer. 17. The first Member State is the Member State within the meaning of § 1, point (c). 16 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 18. The decision for an intra-corporate transferee is the document within the meaning of § 1, point (c). 1g of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 19. The document is the document within the meaning of § 1, point (b) of Article 2 (1) of Directive 2009/138/EC. 1h of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 20. The documents within the meaning of Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European 21. A seasonal worker's authorisation is the document within the meaning of § 1, point (c). 1and of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 22. A regulated profession is the profession within the meaning of § 1, point (c). 1 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications. 23. "Manufacturer' is the person who holds a senior position and works under the supervision of the owner or collective management body of the receiving undertaking, such as: (a) manage the receiving undertaking or its administrative structure; (b) supervise and supervise the work of other professional or management staff or control staff; (c) make recommendations on employment, termination of employment, as well as other actions concerning the rights and obligations of employees. 24. He is a third-country national who retains his principal place of residence in a third country and resides legally and temporarily in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in order to carry out seasonal work on the basis of one or more fixed-term contracts concluded directly with an employer whose registered office is in the Republic of Bulgaria. 25. Seasonal work is a work that depends on the change of seasons and is related to a certain time of year by means of a recurring event or series of events related to seasonal conditions under which the need for labour is significantly greater than in ordinary current works. 26. The Blue Card of the European Union is the document within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 1d of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 27. "Employee-in-trainer' is a person who has a higher education and has been transferred to the receiving undertaking for professional development or training in the field of business techniques or methods and who receives payment for the transfer period. 28. He is a person working in a branch of the enterprise or in an undertaking belonging to the same group of enterprises with its registered office or address of management in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and has specialized knowledge which are essential for the areas of activity, techniques or management of the receiving undertaking. 29. The members of the family of a Bulgarian citizen shall be persons within the meaning of art. 2, para. 6 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 30. Member States of the European Union, of the State Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation, shall be nationals within the meaning of § 1, item 1 of the Agreement on the European Economic Area. 1 of the Additional provision of the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and members of their families. 31. The members of the family of a third-country national shall be persons within the meaning of art. 2, para. 3 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 32. The foreigner is a person within the meaning of art. 2, para. 1 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u169	Statements? I won't. Colleagues, we are voting on the name of the division of Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u170	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. The legal proceedings initiated until the entry into force of this Law on sanctions imposed by the control bodies are completed in the current order. Under § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Mariana Todorova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ The Employment Promotion Act (promise, SG...) makes the following amendments: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 t. 4 and 5 are canceled. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74g, para. 2 t. Two and three are canceled. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74L, para. 4 is amended as follows: Each year until 30 June, the Employment Agency shall examine the circumstances of art. 74f, para. 2, p. 1 for registered enterprises that provide temporary work and inform the Executive Agency of the changes that have taken place. 4. Chapter 8 The work of Bulgarian citizens in other countries and of foreign citizens in the Republic of Bulgaria. 67-74e is canceled. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 76, para. 2 the words "local persons receiving posted workers and employees from the Member States of the European Union, or seconded workers and employees from third countries' shall be deleted; 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 78, para. 1, t. 1 the words of the local persons who received posted workers and employees from the Member States of the European Union or seconded workers and employees from third countries and the comma after them shall be deleted. 7. Articles 78a and 786 are repealed. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79, para. 2 the words of a local person who has accepted posted workers and employees from the Member States of the European Union or seconded workers and employees from third countries and the comma after them shall be deleted. 9. Articles 82 and 82a are repealed. 10. In § 1 of the additional provisions, point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, 14a, 27a, 33 etc. 36-38 shall be cancelled.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u171	Are there any statements on the name "Transitional and Final Provisions" and paragraphs 3 and 4? I won't. We are voting on the paragraphs in the version of the Commission and on the name of an importer fully supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. Those provisions have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u172	According to § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. The Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG...) makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the .) (c).................................................................. 1 is finally added under the order of the law on labour migration and labour mobility. (b) c. 15 at the end is added under the law on labour migration and labour mobility. (c) paragraph 16 is finally added, or has received a positive opinion from the Directorate of the Council of Ministers, under the Order of the Religions Act, as foreign religious officials invited by the central administration of the registered religions. 2. Article 24a is amended as follows: Art. 24a. (1) A permit for a long-stay or long-stay visa may be granted to foreigners who wish to carry out freelance activities and fulfil the conditions for obtaining a freelance permit within the meaning of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. (2) For the issue of the documents under para. 1 shall be submitted to diplomatic and consular representations, respectively to the administrative control services of foreigners, the following documents: 1. application in accordance with the model; 2. permission to carry out freelance activity issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. (3) No long-stay visa shall be issued for the purpose of freelance activities of a foreigner in the cases referred to in art. 24, para. 1, t. 1-13 et seq. 16-20. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24th, para. 1 the words "job authorisation within the meaning of the Employment Promotion Act" shall be replaced by "labour market access" within the meaning of the Labour Migration and Employment Mobility Act. 4. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 24k and 24l: Art. 24k. (1) Permission for a seasonal worker with the right to long stay may be granted by foreigners who are eligible for access to the labour market within the meaning of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility and who are in possession of a visa under art. 15, para. 1. (2) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued after a decision by the authorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the term of the employment contract, but not less than 90 days and not more than nine months. The authorisation may be extended once within this period following a decision by the authorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. (3) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued in application of a single application procedure and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. (4) The authorisation under para. 1 is issued under an accelerated procedure for candidates who have worked at least once in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as seasonal workers in the last five years. (5) The holder of the decision under para. A seasonal worker shall be granted a residence permit as required by Council Regulation (EC) No 1032002 of 13 June 2002 on the uniform format of residence permits for third-country nationals (OB, L 151/1 of 15 June 2002).), as in the field of the authorised type, a seasonal worker is marked. (6) The holder of the authorisation under para. 1 shall be entitled to be informed in writing of the rights deriving from the authorisation. (7) When the authorisation under para. 1 shall expire until a continuation or renewal procedure is in progress, the seasonal worker shall be entitled to reside in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria until a decision on the application has been taken, provided that it has been submitted within the period of validity of the authorisation under para. 1 and has not expired the term under para. 2. Art. 24L. (1) In order to perform seasonal work for a period of up to 90 days, the foreigner must have a valid visa for the purpose of seasonal work, where required, and employment must be registered by the authorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy under the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility and the Rules for its Implementation. (2) The registration of employment under para. 1 shall also be carried out where the alien is exempt from the visa requirement in accordance with Annex II to Council Regulation (EC) No 539/2001 determining the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of a visa when crossing the external borders of the Member States and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (OB, L 81/1 of 21 March) 2001.). 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 is created. 5. supplier born on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria applying for the right of long and permanent residence shall not be required a new visa under art. 15, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 2 after the words.24 &lt;.24 &lt; &lt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt; &gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt;&gt; 7. Article 33 shall be repealed. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Zzk, al. 1 the words "The Employment Promotion Act' shall be replaced by "the Employment Migration and Employment Mobility Service'. 9. Chapter 3 shall be created with art. SZP "Zzt": "Chapter 3" "Industrialisation of third-country nationals for the purposes of the intra-corporate transfer." Art. Zpp. (1) An intra-corporate transfer permit may be granted to foreigners who are eligible for access to the labour market within the meaning of the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act and who are in possession of a visa under art. 15, para. 1. (2) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued after a decision by the authorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for a period of one year and shall be renewed on grounds of re-issue. If the contract of employment is less than one year, the authorisation shall be granted for the duration of the contract. (3) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued in accordance with the requirements of Council Regulation (EC) No 1032002 of 13 June 2002 on the uniform format of residence permits for third-country nationals in application of a single application procedure and in accordance with the rules of application of the law, with the entry in the field of (4) The migration department shall inform the applicant in writing of the authorisation under para. 1 no later than 14 days from the date of its submission. (5) When the validity of the authorisation under para. 1 expired during the renewal procedure, the person is entitled to reside in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria until a decision is taken on the application. Art. Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh-Wh... (1) The family members of the holder of an intra-corporate transfer authorisation may be granted a residence permit with a period of validity corresponding to the period of residence of the holder of an intra-corporate transfer authorisation. To issue a residence permit to family members the requirements of art. 24, para. 2. (2) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued in accordance with an application procedure and in accordance with the rules of application of the law. Art. Zzz. The holder of an intra-corporate transfer authorisation issued by a first Member State shall be entitled to stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as a second Member State for up to 90 days in any 180-day period. Art. Zzt. (1) The holder of an intra-corporate transfer authorisation issued by a first Member State shall be entitled to stay for more than 90 days in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as a second Member State if he fulfils the conditions for access to the labour market within the meaning of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. (2) The holder of the authorisation under para. 1 An intra-corporate transfer mobility authorisation as required by Council Regulation (EC) No 1032002 of 13 June 2002 on the uniform format of residence permits for third-country nationals is granted, with the entry in the field of the........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (3) The Ministry of Interior shall inform the competent authorities of the first Member State when issuing an intra-corporate transfer mobility authorisation. (4) The first Member State shall inform the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria when it withdraws authorisation for an intra-corporate transfer person. (5) The host undertaking shall inform the Migration Directorate and the Employment Agency of any changes affecting the conditions on the basis of which mobility was authorised when the Republic of Bulgaria is the second Member State. (6) The holder of an authorisation for a person moved under an intra-corporate transfer for whom the grounds under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 shall not be allowed to enter or stay in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 1 after the words..24 and...24 k... and after the words..zl................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (b) c. 12 after the words "Synthesis map of the European Union" is added to either an authorisation for an intra-corporate transfer person and a comma is placed, and the words "the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria" shall be replaced by the "Research and labour mobility service." 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44a, para. 4 the words the order under art. 74, para. 1 of the Employment Promotion Act is replaced by the labour migration and labour mobility service. 12. Article 48a is repealed. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 1 the words................................................................................. 33, 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 is finally added within the meaning of the law on labour migration and labour mobility. 15. In § 1 of the Additional Provisions: (a) c. 1b after the words of the foreigner and the person transferred to an intra-corporate transferee shall be added; b) To be created t. 1g? 1i: 1g. The authorisation for an intra-corporate transfer is the authorisation for the intra-corporate transfer, which gives the holder the right to reside and work in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as the first Member State of the European Union, for the purposes of the intra-corporate transfer issued to a third-country worker, in compliance with the single application procedure. 1h. The intra-corporate transfer mobility authorisation is the authorisation with the "Mobile ICT" mobility at the VCT and gives the holder the right to reside and work in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as a second Member State of the European Union for the purposes of the intra-corporate transfer. 1i. The authorisation for a seasonal worker is the authorisation for the purpose of seasonal work, which gives the holder the right to reside and work in the territory of a Member State of the European Union for the purpose of seasonal work. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. According to § 7 there is a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents (prom., SG No. 93 of 1998,...) in art. 59, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 is finally a comma and added for not more than 5 years. 2. A t is created. 2a: It's 2a. the residence permit of a permanent resident member of a family of a Bulgarian citizen with the marking of a family member of a Bulgarian citizen... is issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior for a period depending on the validity of the national identity document with which the person entered the Republic of Bulgaria but for not more than 5 years; the document is issued to persons who have received the right of permanent residence on the basis of art. 25, para. 1, t. 11 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria; 3. They're creating a t. 7b s 7d: "7b." the authorisation of a seasonal worker is issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior as required by Regulation (EC) No 1032002, and the field of permission is marked by a seasonal worker and the field of access to the labour market is noted; 7c. an authorisation for an intra-corporate transfer person is issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1032002, with a reference in the field of the authorised type of intra-corporate transferee, and the condition of access to the labour market is noted in the field of the internal-corporate transferee transfer. 7 years. an intra-corporate transfer mobility permit is issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior according to the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1032002, and the field of permission is marked by The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u173	Thank you. Are there any statements under paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8? I won't. Honourable Members, standing by for a vote after a consultation. Please ask the stenographers to refer to p. 81, p. 15,.............................................................................. 1b, not t. 16, as you read it from the stands. Thank you. Honourable Members, we are already in voting mode. We vote on the text of the importer edited by the Commission for paragraphs 5, 6, 7 and 8 respectively. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted unanimously, by the way, and a large part of the articles and paragraphs of this Bill. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Allow me to thank the importers of the bill, to thank all Members of the Labour and Social Policy Committee, all those involved in the discussion, to thank the experts to the Commission, the referees who participated in the drafting of this difficult and complex Law. You guys are great! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u175	And I thank you for the report and for the Commission's work. With this first point of the program is exhausted. Moving on to point two: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADMINISTERATION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING CODEX. Importers are: Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Svilen Ivanov, Petar Slavov and Ralitsa Todorova, submitted on 17 March 2016. We have a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov is already available. Mr. President of the Commission, you are welcome to submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Amendment and Supplement Bill of Administrative Procedure Code, No 654-01-37, submitted by Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Svilen Ivanov, Petar Slavov and Ralitsa Angelova on 17 March 2016. At its meeting held on 30 March 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code, No 654-01-37, submitted by Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Svilen Ivanov, Petar Slavov and Ralitsa Angelova on 17 March 2016. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that the need for the introduction of the administrative contract stems from the adopted Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds. The aim is to introduce the Institute of Administrative Contract in administrative proceedings. The proposed amendments cover some of the most basic concepts relating to an administrative contract.. conclusion, termination, amendment, implementation as well as the possibility of its legal challenge. The proposed project regulates the operation of the administrative contract against third parties and the procedure for prior implementation. He stressed that between first and second reading the order for the determination of state fees in the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act should be refined. The discussion was attended by MPs Philip Popov, Daniel Kirilov, Dimitar Lazarov and Christian Mitev. In the course of the discussion, Mr. Popov pointed out some ambiguities in the Bill. In response Mr. Mitev expressed his opinion that the draft law clearly defined the applicable rules for the conclusion of the administrative contract, its subject matter, the methods for collecting documents from non-cooperating persons, the order and methods of legal protection. The Members of the National Assembly agreed that some of the proposed changes should be refined. Kirilov pointed out that given the nature of the administrative contract, the right to appeal against its conclusion will also have third parties whose rights and interests are affected by the contract. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for the Law Code, No 654-01-37, submitted by Danail Kirilov, Hristian Mitev, Svilen Ivanov, Petar Slavov and Ralitsa Angelova on 17 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u177	Thank you. Who will offer the reasons for the bill on behalf of the importers? Mr. Kirilov, I'm looking at you again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u178	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will not repeat the main aspects that I have just read to you from the report. I would remind you of this important fact: you know that with the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act, we have introduced explicit rules regarding the disputes and the conviction of these disputes relating to the implementation or failure to comply with commitments under these projects. Until now, there has been a serious disagreement in the caselaw................................................................................................... A major argument in the hesitation in the case of conviction is that one of the parties to those contracts is a body for managing European funds which is integrated into an administrative body. To a large extent, this created difficulties to determine whether the project implementation contract was a typical civil contract or any other contract such as under the APC this could be an administrative contract. We only agreed a few months ago that it is appropriate to resolve these disputes and the administrative courts. In this way, we also defined the nature of the relationship as an administrative contract. However, the Administrative Code does not contain a detailed and detailed framework of what is an administrative contract, how it is concluded, how it is implemented, how it is implemented, how it is terminated, including the accessory consequences associated with the conclusion, termination or failure to comply with the administrative contract. Therefore, the supreme administrative judges quite justified and pursuing the foundations of the practice that they should develop, stressed that by settling this explicit conviction of the administrative courts, the legislator should further develop the matter of the administrative treaty. In the Bill, we've also used scientific expertise. I stress that, although brief, the Bill opened a number of interesting questions, mainly concerning the details of secondary relations relating to the conclusion and termination of the administrative contract. In the debates, in particular, the assumption of pre-execution of such a contract and the other hypothesis affect the rights of third parties. In case the bill is supported at first reading by the plenary, we are prepared between first and second readings to offer even more detailed arrangements regarding these two groups of issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u179	Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to join it? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u180	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I believe that this bill reverses the understanding of fundamental legal doctrines, terms and concepts upside down. The lawyers know that the contract is an agreement between two or more parties in order to create, amend or terminate a legal relationship between them. The civil process is a means of protecting the rightful party in civil relations in the event of unlawful development, while also a penalty for the wrong country. Here the sides are equal. I repeat, equal. The Arbitral Tribunal shall have sovereign powers and its actions shall be binding on the Parties. The administrative process or administrative procedure law shall be one of the types of judicial proceedings. It aims to resolve the administrative dispute between legal entities which are initially in a disadvantaged position of power and subordination, not as in the contract where there is an agreement between two or more parties. The litigation takes place in two instances, not in three, as in the civil trial. There is speed, but in many cases it is at the expense of the effective protection of legal entities, in particular of citizens and organisations that are in subjection to this authority body. The APC defines the sub-ordination of administrative courts, stating that it includes all cases of requests for issuances, amendments, revocation or declaration of nullity of administrative acts, protection against unfounded actions or omissions of the administration, establishment of the truth of administrative acts and so on. The individual administrative act appeared in our country as early as 1911 in the doctrine, and now there is a legal definition. In APC according to art. 21 of the APC, the individual administrative act is a statement of an administrative body which is empowered to do so by a special law and which creates rights and obligations or refuses to create such for individual citizens or organisations. The individual administrative act shall be issued by clarifying the factual circumstances relevant to the case. Facts and circumstances shall be established through explanations, declarations, information and other primos. The Parties shall have their own interest in defending before the court or the determining authority. For a country we talk when it is not a decisive body. In this sense, the situation of the administration is as follows. In the stage of issuing administrative acts, this is the administration, citizens and organisations. They want to issue the administrative act. The administration is the deciding authority, and the citizen is a country. You are also interfering with the prosecution because it is mentioned that it is involved in the conclusion and implementation of this so-called administrative contract. The prosecution protects the legality and state interest and therefore has the quality of a country in the administrative process. What's going on here? Something else. In theory, there is no uniform understanding of an administrative treaty, because the possibility of the existence of an administrative contract is initially contested because it cannot be administrative................. and be a treaty when we have an agreement. According to the APC, anyone having a legal interest may request the termination of actions carried out by the administrative authority or an official not based on an administrative act or on a law. It is untenable to solve the mess that you have involved in the European Union Fund Management Act and have introduced concepts without legal definition, to confuse the entire administrative process and to turn the understanding of legal, civil and administrative law upside down. The possibility of pre-execution of a contract and possibility of appeal is given, I repeat, with the participation of the Prosecutor's Office. What appeal are we talking about under an agreement, what is in the contract and a formal consensus contract, because here we have a form of requirement, of reality, of writing. But the contract is obviously a consensus between two or more parties to it. The whole structure that is expressed in this Bill is too confused and will lead to great confusion in the administrative process. I can now summarize that with this bill you are trying to make a wooden iron. This will not work or, if it works, it will be in an absolutely negative plan and aspect. Please do not practice creating new legal definitions, a new legal understanding of certain definitions. You know that the Law on Obligations and Contracts is the most sustainable and there is clearly and specifically said what a contract is, and it is the most sustainable because it respects fundamental doctrines and a fundamental understanding of the law at all about the development of law. Here you turn everything upside down just to settle this ridiculous piece of shit that was created in the Law, which the colleague before me quoted. This Law cannot be supported. I would also like to ask the other Members of the National Assembly, who are here at the moment, not to support this Law because it will create chaos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u181	First line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u182	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, Dear Mr Popov! I cannot agree with any of what you have said, and I am definitely surprised at that. You have always maintained comparatively justified legal arguments. The administrative contract is a classic element and part of administrative law. That is why the text of the Administrative Procedure Code is explicitly stated, where we have a separate Section "Administrative Agreement." Administrative agreement! I say again: in the development of this matter we tried to include specialists in the legal doctrine to give the theoretical aspects of this institute, which, I admit, is for the first time further developed in the new Bulgarian administrative law. This development is fully followed and the closest analogy can be sought with German administrative law. So if we've cheated and copied it from somewhere, that's where it's from. Furthermore, I stress that the administrative treaty is a concept established in many legal systems of the European continental legal system. Some dramatic element with the prosecution's involvement you intervened, which I couldn't understand at all because it didn't concern this relationship at all. You know for yourself how many administrative authorities have entered into one or another type of contract that we have so far been looking for legal qualifications. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For this reason, we have indicated the exact qualification as an administrative contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u183	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u184	Thank you, Madam President. You're right, colleague Kirilov, there is such a concept. But I have just mentioned that in our legal doctrine it is not unique and there are reasons why it is not unambiguous. You may mean public procurement, but there is no administrative contract. Since there are clear distinctions, the contracting authority shall administratively designate the contractor by administrative act and then conclude a contract for public procurement. Or the administrative contract with regard to concessions, but there the State authority may unilaterally make changes to the contract. This contradicts the understanding of a contract which is detailed in the Law on Obligations and Contracts. More than that. I know that we are at first reading by the spirit and principle of this Bill, but on page 1. 2 below you have written that when an administrative contract is urgently to take place, that some of the provisions of the section may not be met. What are the reasons and what are the provisions not to be respected? That's not specific. At all, such a text exists in law, and it is in the Administrative Procedure Code that some of the provisions may not be respected, seems too inadmissible legal and illogical. In this regard, I made that statement. I think that this is how the bill is presented is not complete and cannot respond even to your wishes to give a normal, legal definition in relation to the law on spending euro funds. It just doesn't work through the Administrative Procedure Code to do experiments.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-13.u185	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. On the basis of art. 69 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly due to the fact that 2 pm passed and the end of the plenary sitting is over, I hereby order the vote on this Draft to take place at the beginning of the plenary session tomorrow, 14 April 2016, at 9 pm. Due to the expiry of the scheduled plenary time, I am closing the meeting. Tomorrow we will begin with the first vote on the bill on which we held debates at the moment. [[PHONE RINGING]]
