ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u1	Good morning, colleagues! I'm opening the meeting. [[Ringing. Noise in the hall.]] Order, please! Honourable Members, please be quiet in this Chamber! Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I propose inclusion as items on the agenda: The project for a decision to set up a Temporary Committee of inquiry to investigate and establish facts and circumstances related to the presence of a cartel on the fuel market. In addition, the project of a decision on the establishment of a Temporary (Anketal) Commission for the verification of all data, facts and circumstances leading to doubts of distortion of competition on the fuel market and doubts of abuse of a dominant position between 2008 and 2016. The second point is a draft decision to set up a Temporary Committee of inquiry to verify all the data, facts and circumstances surrounding the granting and acquisition of a concession for coal mining from the Bobovdol Coal Basin, section "Babino" for the period from 2005 to the end of September 2016. Please vote. They voted 133 MPs: 133, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is unanimous. Let's start with point one: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION FOR SEARCHING AND FACTS AND FACTS RELATED TO THE PRESENTATION OF A MAP ON THE BUILDING MARKET, AS WELL AS A PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY ANCETAL COMMISSION FOR THE The first project was taken under No 654-02-82 from 19 October 2016, importers were the People's Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. I ask the contributors to the People's Representative Zhelyo Boychev to introduce you to the Project for a solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we are pleased with this rapid reaction of the Presidency and the decision of the Chamber to include this item on the agenda of today's sitting. Undoubtedly, the fuel price issue is one of the most sensitive in Bulgarian society. I would like to remind you that until now, three times the sector has been the subject of an analysis by the regulatory authorities - 2008, 2009 and 2011. The Commission for Protection of Competition is carrying out such a sectoral analysis. Unfortunately, so far, concrete actions and concrete results on this sector have not been achieved after analyses. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that the Commission for Protection of Competition comes to the conclusion that there is no mechanism for determining the value of individual products, including the cost of crude oil invested in the production of automotive fuels. The recently-elected composition of the Commission for Protection of Competition came up with the statement of convincing evidence for a cartel in the fuel sector from the consecutive verification and analysis of this sector, which is being carried out for the period 2013. The specific accusations are that seven of the gas stations in the country have coordinated actions in determining the price of fuels retail. The Commission finds that the retail price of these chains of petrol stations moves in sync but does not follow the wholesale price. Separately, in each of the checks carried out so far, it has been found that there are a number of administrative burdens and unresolved regulatory issues in the fuel sector, and therefore one of the proposals that we are making towards the possible formation of this Temporary Commission is to examine carefully the regulatory base itself and come up with recommendations and proposals to the executive and, of course, to the legislative authority in the face of the National Assembly. So there is hardly a question that reaches and concerns every Bulgarian citizen, such as the fuel sector. If there really is a cartel in the fuel sector, it essentially means that it seizes income from the Bulgarian economy. In essence, this means that it damages every single Bulgarian consumer, so we believe that it is appropriate for the Bulgarian National Assembly to deal with this issue, as it is evident that it is not by virtue of one or another regulatory authority in our country and there is no more appropriate place than that the National Assembly, with all the functions and powers it has, to provoke this conversation, to make the necessary analysis and ultimately to complete with very specific and legislative decisions on this issue, and recommendations to the executive power. I think this is how we respond directly to the interest of Bulgarian citizens, to the interest of Bulgarian producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u3	Thank you. Read your Project for a solution as there is another one on this topic.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u4	Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Committee of inquiry to investigate and establish facts and circumstances relating to the presence of a cartel on the fuel market The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It shall establish a Temporary Committee of inquiry to investigate and establish facts and circumstances relating to the presence of a cartel on the fuel market. 2. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of this Regulation. 1 shall be established on a parite principle, consisting of two Members of Parliament from each Parliamentary Group and two Members of Parliament not members of Parliamentary Groups. 3. Choose a leadership: Chairman and one Vice-President and a Chamber of the Temporary Committee of inquiry, as follows, on a proposal from the parliamentary groups: 4. The Commission shall be elected for a period of two months. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. For the second draft decision is the word of the people representative Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! After it was stated yesterday that the BSP had signed a petition for the creation of such a Commission, they brazenly lied that we did not want to participate in this signature. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u7	Please, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u8	I'm just making it clear. We have a clear position on the cartels and therefore we propose that a commission be formed after we have collected signatures from GERB, the Reformation Bloc and the Patriotic Front, we propose a decision to establish a temporary committee of inquiry to verify all data, facts and circumstances leading to doubts of distortion of competition in the fuel market and to doubts of abuse of a dominant position between 2008 and July 2016. What are our motives for this? The main objective of the Temporary Committee of inquiry is to clarify obstacles to competition and possible abuses of a dominant position and to take legislative measures and actions to improve competition in the fuel market. Analysis of the data on the retail prices of fuels in Bulgaria without taxes and excise duties shows that for the period from the beginning of 2008 to September 2012 these prices are sustainable lower than the average levels for the European Union by an average of about 6% for petrol and about 8% for diesel fuel. From October 2012 to mid-2016, local fuel prices are sharply ahead of prices in the European Union, excluding taxes and excise duties. In various documents of the KPC, including on the website in "Communications" of 25.02.2016 and on the central media, the spokesman of the KPC emphasized on perhaps the most serious administrative legal obstacle to competition in the fuel market, the regime of regulation and functioning of tax warehouses. In addition to requiring statutory capital of the trading company of a minimum of 500 thousand. lv. Bank guarantees of the order of 30 million are required. BGN, as well as compliance with a number of technical and procedural requirements in the process of construction of the tax warehouse. In addition, the analysis of the KPC confirms again from 2011 that more than 80% of the capacity of the tax warehouses is controlled by two companies. The Commission makes a number of recommendations on the change and relief of the regime of registration and management of tax warehouses with a view to the normal functioning of the Treaty of the European Union on the free movement of goods. From the data provided by letter, ex. No MFF 01-00-93/12/04.2011, Minister Simeon Djankov on fuel capacities and the concentration of ownership of tax warehouses at that time confirm the potential problems with access to tax warehouses. Improving access to tax warehouses and thus increasing competition can be implemented with changes to legislation that can be implemented by the National Assembly. In February 2016, a citizens' initiative for fair fuel prices was submitted to the National Assembly, which further argues that the existing cartel agreements supporting significantly higher fuel prices in Bulgaria than the average Europeans have damaged the state and Bulgarian citizens with more than 3 billion. lv. For the last three years. This claim should be verified, including the requirement of expertise by competent institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. Here you are, sir. "The People's Representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think it is positive that there are two draft decisions to set up a temporary committee of inquiry to verify all the facts and circumstances of the fuel market. Why is the project formulated to verify the doubts of distortion of competition in the fuel market and the doubts of abuse of a dominant position between 2008 and 2016 more correct? Because a cartel, ladies and gentlemen, is just one of the forms of distortion of competition. Forms of distortion of competition can be different types and if the Commission has previously said, as BSP colleagues have suggested, that dealing exclusively with cartels is strange. It's not right. What Parliament must do is consider the doubts about distortion of competition and the doubts about abuse of a dominant position on the fuel market. And what can he do? Unfortunately, first, with colleague Petar Slavov, then colleague Delyan Dobrev and I asked a number of questions to the current finance minister and he, unlike Simeon Djankov, did not answer. He did not answer the question who are the owners of the tax warehouses as capacity. This issue must be dealt with by the Commission and it must make the next steps to work for legislative changes that will eliminate or reduce obstacles to competition in the fuel market so that prices can be comparable to the European Union through price competition. What concerns me and a number of colleagues I am convinced that you are also worried about is that in 2012 the average prices of diesel and gasoline in Bulgaria, without excise and VAT, were above average European prices. That about stock means there's something fishy in this fuel market. This is an occasion for us to look at the situation not from the point of view of the KPC, but from the point of view of the legislative possibilities to ease imports and reduce barriers to competition within the country. I also ask the following question: how much is a liter of gasoline and a liter of diesel to pass through the fuel, through a tax warehouse in Bulgaria? It's a sacred secret that no one wants to answer. And this issue must be clearly addressed by this Temporary Committee of inquiry, and if it is seen that from here comes fuel appreciation, from here comes a restriction of competition and from here comes a problem, to consider legislative measures and solutions to improve the competitive environment. In this sense, the parliamentary committee has a completely different focus, quite different powers from what the KPC does. The parliamentary committee cannot have almost the same focus and subject matter as the regulatory authority. You've understood from everything I've told you what a distinction must be made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u11	Come on, come on!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u12	I'm asking you not to politicize this subject, there's no room for politicization. There is a place to admit that there is a problem because because fuel was more expensive than the average European, without taxes, several years in a row, this limited economic growth in Bulgaria. This reduced the growth of the economy and, secondly, cost additional costs for Bulgarian citizens. For this reason, honourable Members, our efforts must be precisely in the direction of more imports, more opportunities for importing and reducing and limiting barriers to competition in the internal market. That is why we will support this draft decision and call on Parliament to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? National Representative Yordan Tsonev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I agree with everything you have said. My line is only that the average fuel prices in Bulgaria are not higher than the average European prices in the period 2012 - 2016 but from 2001 to 2016. I personally as an economist have done such analyses and I am very facilitated, I will tell you where there is a table of Eurostat data that is published regularly. It shows the price of layers of all types of derivatives, the average transport costs, the average burden, in particular the burden in each country of VAT and excise duty, and the differences. This table since 2001 shows very clearly that here in Bulgaria it is a cartel. Another point is that we have repeatedly raised this question from the DPS, but neither have we received an answer or a satisfactory explanation in the various committees. Otherwise, there are even given the places where one country, according to the severity of the excise duty, our excise duty is the lowest in Europe, the transport costs are also average for Europe, and let's say, in certain periods of years, in the first place, in other periods of third place, on the scale of the price of that fuel. So this data has been there since 2001 and this problem has been there. We all see it, but something's not working.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u15	Thank you for the line. Another line? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I want to bring some clarity. We absolutely agree with the estimates for the tax warehouses and that there should be information. Here we have long maintained this thesis, we have no differences. But, honourable Members, the problem for the Bulgarian state is serious, for the following economic reason. Where's the dog buried, as they say? The taxes in Bulgaria, honourable Members, are almost three times lower on fuels than excise duties in a rich country, such as the Netherlands. Given that the final retail price of fuel diesel, gasoline, in Bulgaria is around the average of Europe, even lower the final price, this means, dear colleagues, that hundreds of millions of levs do not enter the treasury of Bulgaria, as in the Netherlands and Germany, but enter the treasury of those who sell the fuels. So the problem is not only in the tax warehouses and it is scandalous that the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria is so not interested in several billion, which do not enter the register of the Bulgarian people, in other cases. So in addition to the tax warehouses, the work of this Commission is a question of excise and market laws, with stronger competition and higher excise duties. No higher final price. The Bulgarian state must change the legislation so that without increasing fuel prices, i.e. in real competition, first of all, keeping prices and, secondly, changing the structure of prices. So that these billions enter the treasury, the Treasury, not the pockets of the oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u17	Thank you. Is there anyone who wants a third line? Come in, dear Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, I thank the two colleagues for the professional questions they have asked. That is exactly how we need to work as the Commission to check whether the trend is from 2012 to 2016, or whether it is from earlier. The data of energy.eu, Mr. Tsonev, show this, but we need to see other data to be as thorough as possible. Colleague Gechev, too. However, colleague Gechev, my distinction with you is that we want the price difference or a better competitive environment to leave more money in Bulgarian citizens. You're thinking of the budget in the first place. But between these two, a kind of compromise can be found. Otherwise, that's exactly the kind of committee that needs to be made, because otherwise the years go by. There was a government of BSP, now there is a government of GERB and, unfortunately, we have no concrete results in terms of improving the competitive environment of the fuel market. What KPC is doing is they cannot and do not have the power to improve the legislative base, this is our job. It's our duty and our job. They explore the problems of the fuel market, they can make recommendations, but changing legislation and improving access to tax warehouses, including easing imports, is our job. This is what I am calling on you now, there are elections, tomorrow there will be other elections, to avoid any elections, and this Commission professionally, seriously, as were the lines of colleagues, to do its job, to see what we can do together for there to be more competition, respectively lower fuel prices, because of the competition and higher growth of the Bulgarian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u19	Thank you. National Representative Emil Dimitrov of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Frankly, I wasn't prepared for a debate today, but I can see that the subject is important, and thank you for putting it on the table. Before putting my mind at the end, I will tell what I think about the two proposals.. what is of Mrs Cornelia Ninova and what is of GERB. The good and the bad, I think, should unite. I'll try to make a point. Why is this topic important? Because we have a gray sector that constantly generates revenue that works both to discredit party systems and to buy votes and to buy magistrates and to generate crime. The fact is, the money in the mob is working against all of us. What is a country filled with? Either you let the printery print money, or you cut costs, and I don't think we're oriented in that direction, or you need to increase revenue, for which the administration has to work much more and better, or external revenue loans. The only way to increase revenue is for the administration to work, on the one hand. The other thing is to raise taxes. Do you think it is necessary to raise taxes in order to increase revenue? Or do you think that the grey sector needs to be pushed and reduced to a minimum in order to be able at the current tax rate, in the current administration, the revenue in the budget to be too much more and to support much more social activity or the policy of the ruling majority at the moment? Such a commission must verify the introduction of fuels, the processing of fuels, the distribution of fuels, of course, the sale, reporting and entering into the budget of the excise duty payable and VAT. He must check the share of the gray sector, the share of the transparent sector, reasons and prerequisites for the gray sector to flourish, reasons and prerequisites for the white sector to be able to work smoothly. Because if you have two gas stations in one city, one has ten appliances, and the other one has none, the one with the 10 appliances pays salaries, insurances, there are constantly tax, customs and all kinds of bodies control it, and the other one is the one who is transparent to say, "Yes, well, I do everything, and what happens to the others?" Why one mother, another stepmother? This cannot be done unambiguously by the left or by the right. A balanced look must be arbitration. Arbitrage that impartially explains what happened without making accusations without issuing sentences and without dealing with investigative activities. We must not exceed that threshold. On the other hand, parliamentary control provides sufficient opportunity for any uncertainties in this sector to be clarified. Mrs Cornelia Ninova's proposal, on the one hand, is quite balanced because she says two people from a parliamentary group, including two people from the non-members of a parliamentary group. On the other side we have a proposal, which is for a period of eight years. This proposal for eight years means that six and a half years has been the management of GERB. Agree that if I tell you whether Tsvetan Vassilev can check himself or someone to check it out while he is the manager, the result we know is that the auditors have come, they have done checks, and in the end we have paid the bill. Without saying who's wrong and who's right, but when someone checks themselves, it's always a doubt. On the other hand, no one can deny that there must be representatives and verifications in order to protect, provide data, facts, circumstances and ensure impartiality. Martin Dimitrov's proposal, which is on a very sensitive principle, guarantees a greater presence of GERB and the danger to then say: You checked yourself, wrote your report, left us only to sign it or to clap. It is obvious, however, that such an examination should be carried out. Perhaps some compilation between the two proposals of Mrs. Ninova and Mr. Martin Dimitrov. This committee must include a very broad representation and must avoid dealing with politics. Politics, I mean, to divide into blue, red, to attack, and to give reasons and prerequisites, to tell the whole process and to indicate why at some ports there are appliances, to others there are none? Why are some tax warehouses used and others not? We remember the time when there were no tax warehouses, and the tanks would safely cross the border all the time, when, to find out if there was fuel or gas in it, samples were being taken, long cases were taking place. The state budget is extremely relying on tax and excise warehouses. Yes, we can eliminate them and even abroad you have declared and paid everything. But if money doesn't come at the end of the month, what do you get for salaries, for pensions? So any step that is in tax legislation, in the order already created, is very easy for someone to improvise on it............................................................................................. I assure you that every action directly and directly reflects on revenue in the budget and on the possibility of a policy being carried out or not. On the other hand, we have a BASIS control system that systemically does not work, systematically misses thousands of transactions, it turns out that thousands of operations are not registered. And here we are constantly working to introduce new and new appliances to a part of the sector, and the other one pretends that we don't notice it. However, whatever the truth is, we must show it impartially, because the result of it means debate, inquiry to all manufacturers, to all distributors, to all affected in this sector, even if you will the service stations to say their problems. I hope that we are increasingly informed of what we have come to know and have established that we can make an adequate legislative change. Of course, that doesn't rule out if we have facts, circumstances, data, evidence, to alert the prosecution. They are the ones who can decide what to do from this moment on. Our role as National Assembly to have a legislative initiative is based on the data from this committee to be much more objective, much more precise and hopefully far more impartial... I propose, if this committee is set up, that it be after the elections that are to come so that it is not burdened with additional tension. This committee shall be able to provide objective data on the basis of which legislation is to be amended. In conclusion, please, when proposing candidates, let them be people who know matter and who are not extremely or extremely committed to defending one or another thesis. Let the conclusions made by this committee be the result of objective reality, the facts and circumstances that stand at the table, and not someone somewhere write a report that will then only be given for signature. I believe that this committee should be drawn up. It should not be made up of scandal. I believe that Ms. Ninova's proposal specifically for the composition is a little better than that of Martin Dimitrov only because it will be artificially burdened with political tensions that an interested party checks itself, because, as I said, this eight-year period includes six and a half years of management of GERB. This was also the reason why, when Mrs. Nino created the draft of this declaration, to talk to me, let there be no secrets, and to say: "If we head this committee or wish to head it, it will come out that we are trying to solve ourselves. If GERB heads it, it will appear that they are trying to defend themselves. Let's make it a neutral one. I support this view of her even though she is burdened with political shades. I appeal to you in the composition of the committee very objectively and balanced, if you need lawyers put in, but bring in people who will not deal with and play with politics, but will give a final product that will be useful to all of us, and will not be used for votes, for resignations and for whatever other things that are not directly related to the budget, for improving the revenue side, for the creation of instructions for the administration to work better and better and for presenting the objective reality of what has happened, or for what are the reasons and prerequisites to be in this way so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? I won't. To speak, the people representative Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My speech will be a logical extension of what Mr. Dimitrov has spoken so far. I would like to mention and express my satisfaction that the National Assembly has finally managed to find a topic that meets the interests of society and is recognised by the majority responsible for it, even though it has been initiated by the opposition, that this topic is a topic of society, for which I think we can be congratulated as the National Assembly, that we have come to the conclusion that we can consider a matter of public interest. I would like to draw particular attention to the two differences that exist in the two draft decisions. First of all, the deadline to be set. You notice that our proposal does not have a deadline in the decision itself. There is no time limit because we believe that the work of the committee, according to how much information will be provided to it, what conclusions will be drawn, can determine its own time limit for it to work. Otherwise, as Mr. Dimitrov said, starting from 2008, there is a great risk of gathering more information than we need. Where there is a distortion in the market, if there is a distortion in the last three years, there is sufficient evidence that there has been a distortion in the market. We don't have to look much further. If we're going to set deadlines, we might ask ourselves why 2008, why not since 2005, why not from the moment when it was sold?Lukoil, as the initial moment of the possibility of distortion of the market? I propose that we do not mention in the decision a deadline, as the committee may decide on its own, in relation to the volume and facts it has established in recent years, whether to extend this problem further and deeper in the past, or to limit it to the last three years, which will be sufficient to determine trends and sufficient to make the relevant legislative decisions to improve the situation in the market. The second thing I would like to say, fellow Members, if you impose, and you have the opportunity with the majority at your disposal, the proportionate principle of the establishment of this committee, I would like to warn you that you will also bear all the political responsibility of the results that will be on this committee. You know what I mean. You understand that in a committee that protects and is set up to objectively examine what has happened and to take the necessary measures, if there has been a breach, in the future to be avoided, it is good to be on a parite principle. Thus, each of the political parties represented here and the independent MPs will have the opportunity and will bear the responsibility for the work and the decisions of the committee. If you are willing to assume only your political responsibility in the investigation of a period during which you have been ruling in most of it, we do not object. Do it! We will support the principle of money because we also want to be politically responsible for what will be decided. The choice is yours. The Bulgarian Socialist Party and the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria will support the decision on the monetary principle of building this committee and we will continue to work as we have done so far, as in this case we have proved with initiatives for the benefit of society. We hope, as in this case, that the government will follow us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On this subject, I have already spoken twice from this tribune. Let me just start by saying that I signed the initiative of the Bulgarian Socialist Party to set up a Research Commission for the Fuel Cartel. I believe that this poll committee should put a finger in the wound and name the problems or, more specifically, the problem with his real name. The real name of the problem, when we talk about the fuel cartel in Bulgaria, is Lukoil Bulgaria. One word that I have been in this Chamber for two years now, I have the feeling that it is a dirty secret or a dangerous word for use both on the left and on the right and on the center. Even of those who two years ago most patriotic spoke from Burgas against the monopoly of Lukoil Bulgaria. Lucoil has a dominant position in the market and this is no secret. Lukoil sells more expensive abroad on foreign markets than on domestic markets, that is, most of its production goes outside than on domestic markets. The excise warehouses have already been told, but let me repeat again to find out what the problem is and where the root of evil is. The obstacle to competition in the fuel market in Bulgaria is precisely the extremely high requirements for private companies to discover and operate an excise warehouse. Who can afford to give $500,000? lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. A guarantee to find such a warehouse? Of course, big companies and monopolies. Of them in the first place is located Lukoil Bulgaria. In fact, the news of the other day is that the Commission for Protection of Competition accused the following companies for the Fuel Cartel: They violated the Competition Act in the part of the exchange of price information. And what's next for all of this? Some fine that is a caressing on the head of 10% of the annual turnover of these companies, all the more so that this procedure goes to court, is appealed, and in the end it gets nothing. Therefore, I believe that the commission to be set up should name Lukoil Bulgaria as the main problem of the tumor on the Bulgarian market for fuels. In fact, this firm is very powerful because it has taken over the media as well. Look at the front pages of the newspapers, prime time on TV. Why are you afraid to say that, you patriots? Get up and say it! Lukoil Bulgaria has taken over everything! She's taken over politics and parliament! Anyone who's afraid to say that, I kind of get it. There are very powerful lobbies here in this parliament. [[Replying, shouting, noise.]] Here, from the Attack Party let them speak. How does Ataka Party feel about its representatives on the issue of Lukoil Bulgaria? [[Reply, shout and noise in the hall.]] Find courage and get involved in this matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u25	Mr. Enchev, expose your own.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u26	Yeah, I'm exposing my thesis. I know I'm blowing up this room with my speech, but someone has to tell the truth. [[Shouting.]] The truth is that Lukoil Bulgaria is also managing the Bulgarian policy. The former Prime Minister's company is guarding the pipelines and nobody dares to say that. Someone has to tell the truths in this Parliament, and I hope that the Bulgarian Socialist Party will also find that courage. When this commission is set up, name the problems with their names, whether they affect the Russian Federation or not. We must be Bulgarians here above all and obey the laws of the market. If this capitalism, which is being built in Bulgaria, is the "Lukoil Bulgaria" model, I am against this capitalism, whether it is Eastern, Western or otherwise. [[Noise, lines and shouts.]] The screams I hear from the left and the right show once again that I put my finger in the wound.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u27	Sam!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u28	Yes, alone! It is good for all who are affected to come out of this tribune, but not to talk about who is who, but to talk about their attitude towards the problem. The attitude to the problem "Lukoil Bulgaria". Otherwise, the creation of the Committee of Polls? You know how her work will end. Her work will end with findings of which absolutely nothing follows. In this case, I make a good call to the ruling GERB party to find courage and to place reins on this company, which holds the Bulgarian politics, holds the Bulgarian media depending. Even reporters who now reflect this event in the couloirs of parliament, I am sure that not a single word will dare say in their reports from here, as on the front pages of their newspapers and in the prime time of television stands what? Lukoil Bulgaria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? Here you are, Professor Stanilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u30	Because the political broker Velizar Enchev urged the affected to come out, I am not affected, but still I would like to say a few words. Lukoil really dominates the market, there really is a cartel. There is no cartel only in fuel, there is a cartel for example in selling oil quite certainly, in medicines, in pharmaceuticals. Where's Daniela Daritkova? She's not in the meds, the pharmaceuticals have a cartel 100%. All medicines in Bulgaria are at higher prices than in the surrounding countries. What does that look like?! I'm going to say that Lukoil has become one because we all have, without exception. For years the National Assembly has been doing this alone.................................................................. to the Russians....................................................................................................................................................................................... Big deal. And CEZ, who belong to the Czech pensioners, again a state company, what do they do? Same robbery. In other words, there must be a policy that does not allow, first, monopolism, and, second, huge money to be exported from the country. The money should be invested here. We didn't even have to talk about whether it was Lukoil or OMV. Is OMV more than Lukoil? They're the same robbers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u31	Are there any other lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. I'm voting, first of all, Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Committee of inquiry to investigate and establish facts and circumstances relating to the presence of a cartel on the fuel market The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It shall establish a Temporary Committee of inquiry to investigate and establish facts and circumstances relating to the presence of a cartel on the fuel market. 2. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of this Regulation. 1 shall be established on a parite principle, consisting of two Members of Parliament from each Parliamentary Group and two Members of Parliament who are not members of Parliamentary Groups. Points 3 and 4 will be put to the vote once we see whether the project is adopted. Please vote. Vote 156 MPs: 62, against 12, abstention 82. The project hasn't been accepted. I'm putting it to the vote. Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Committee of inquiry to verify all the data, facts and circumstances leading to doubts of distortion of competition in the fuel market and of suspicions of abuse of a dominant position between 2008 and July 2016. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It sets up a Temporary Committee of inquiry to verify all the data, facts and circumstances leading to doubts of distortion of competition in the fuel market and of suspicions of abuse of a dominant position between 2008 and July 2016. 2. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of this Regulation. 1 shall consist of Members of Parliament from all parliamentary groups and their number shall be determined on a very sensitive basis. Points 3 and 4 will be put to the vote if the draft decision is adopted. Please vote. Vote 157 MPs: 155, no objection, abstention 2. The project to point two has been adopted. "3." Selects the management and composition of the Temporary Committee of inquiry from a total of 20 members as follows: GERB s 7 MPs; BSP - three MPs; DPS "three MPs'; Reformer's block "two MPs'; Patriotic front "two MPs; Bulgarian Democratic Center - People's Union - one Member of the National Assembly; "Attack" one Member of the National Assembly; ABB s a Member of the National Assembly. Which of the importers will propose a leadership of a president and how many vice-presidents? Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u32	Dear Mr President, we are proposing a guide from one President of the Commission and two Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u33	Please vote on the proposal. They voted 147 MPs: 146 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please, Ms. Karayancheva, for a proposal from the parliamentary group for the name composition of the Commission "7 MPs."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, we propose that Mr. Valentin Nikolov be President, and the other six members please offer them a little later because we are not ready yet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u35	From BSP LB Parliamentary Group, you are welcome to propose three MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the BSP Parliamentary Group, we propose as members of the Commission the Members of the National Assembly. Rumen Gechev, including Vice-President of the Commission, Georgi Turnovalyski and Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms proposes as members of the Temporary Committee of Investigation the MPs Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid and Petar Chobanov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u39	Mr. Dimitrov, please come in from the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the Reformation Bloc we offer Peter Slavov and Nastimir Ananiev as members and Peter Slavov as Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u41	The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, please, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u42	Mr. President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, we propose as members Mr. Boris Yachev and Mr. Emil Dimitrov, by proposing Mr. Emil Dimitrov as President of the Commission, and in case he is not elected Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u43	You're offering him for two jobs, alternative? If he is not elected deputy, he shall remain a member. From the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I use this opportunity to remind you that the Parliamentary Group is called the Bulgarian Democratic Center-People's Union. Please use the full name.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u45	Thank you for reminding me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u46	On behalf of our parliamentary group, I propose Mr. Georgi Kovachev as Commissioner and Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u47	From the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Attack?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u48	The Parliamentary Group of "Attacka" proposed as a Commissioner Prof. Lyubomir Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u49	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. And the Parliamentary Group of Alternative for Bulgarian Revival?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, the ABB Parliamentary Group proposes Ivan Slavov Ivanov as a Commissioner.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsochev. Are you ready, Mrs. Karayancheva?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u52	Mr. Chairman, we propose Mr. Evgeni Stoev, Mr. Atanas Tashkov, Mr. Dimitar Boychev, Mr. Plamen Yordanov, Mrs. Evgenia Angelova and Mr. Dobromir Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u53	Thank you. We are voting on the Commission's 20-member composition, as presented to you by the parliamentary tribune. They voted 142 MPs: 141 against 1, no abstentions. The name composition of 20 members of the Commission has been adopted. We're moving on to the leadership vote. There are two candidates for chairman in the order of their entry. We are voting for the nomination for President of the Commission of the National Representative Valentin Nikolov. They voted 137 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 35. I put to the vote the second candidacy of the MP Emil Dimitrov. They voted 132 MPs: 66, against 3, abstention 63. People's representative Emil Dimitrov has fewer votes. People's representative Valentin Nikolov is elected President of the Commission. We are going to vote on the proposed Vice-Presidents. The first proposal is for the MP Rumen Gechev. We are voting for his candidacy as Vice-President of the Commission. They voted 141 MPs: 41, against 44, abstention 56. We are voting for the nomination of MP Petar Slavov as Vice-President. They voted 129 MPs: 81, against 26, abstention 22. We are voting for the nomination of MP Emil Dimitrov as Vice-President of the Commission. Vote 134 MPs: 124 against 1, abstention 9. I put to the vote the proposal that the people's representative Georgi Kovachev be Vice-President of the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 24, against 3, abstention 86. As a result of the votes held with the most votes that satisfy the requirements for quorum, is the national representative Emil Dimitrov. The other, which is above the required number for the quorum, is the national representative Petar Slavov. Accordingly, both were elected Vice-Presidents of the Commission. We are voting for the entire draft decision, together with the name composition of the Temporary Commission, consisting of 20 members, the elected President and two Vice-Presidents and the Commission's term of office, three months, this is point four. They voted 134 MPs: 134, no opposition and no abstentions. The decision has been adopted unanimously. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal for amendment to the National Assembly's Work Programme. For tomorrow, as point 10th and point 1 for Friday, the first vote on bills amending and supplementing the Election Code is envisaged. I am proposing that the current item eight of the National Assembly's Work Programme be provided as point two for Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u55	Read what point you mean.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u56	I propose a bill to ratify the Paris Agreement to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and to adopt a declaration under art. 9 paragraph 1 of the Agreement, with an importer, the Council of Ministers, to be point two for Friday. I will explain the logic of this proposal. Given that on tomorrow we will be discussing draft amendments and amendments to the Election Code at first reading, and if more than one of these bills is adopted, it will be imperative to review the draft joint report to be announced by the Legal Committee and after the announcement starts to run the deadline. My proposal to introduce such a point second is to allow the Legal Committee to examine a summary report of the adopted bills and to be communicated in plenary. [[Reply from BSP LB.]] The problem is I apologize, Mr. Chairman, for entering a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u57	Please, Mr. Kirilov, finish up and don't engage in a dialogue. I'll explain if there's anything else.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u58	The problem is to be able to vote, that is to have the opportunity, to have plenary time in which to hold this procedural vote, stressing that this will in no way affect the time and volume of parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. To explain to the Board of Appeal, we have clarified that parliamentary control should be within the prescribed time, that is, three hours. In fact, what is currently being proposed is to vote first on the Election Code, to give a break in which the Legal Committee is to meet, to propose a summary report, then to examine the second point on climate change, and to vote on the deadline for the Election Code. From then on, parliamentary control will begin within three hours as foreseen. Those were the terms of the Conference of Presidents. Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 118 MPs: 114, against 2, abstention 2. The proposal has been accepted................................................. the point as second for Friday. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I propose that we extend the deadline for proposals between the two readings of yesterday's bill amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Contracts, the so-called draft of the legal interest rate. We commented in the Chamber that it is good to take more opinions, so I propose that the deadline be extended to three weeks for proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u61	Do you have a reverse opinion, honourable Members? I won't. Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Petar Slavov from the parliamentary tribune. They voted 106 MPs: 104, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, the People's Representative Krasimir Karakachanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u62	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front in relation to the forthcoming amendments to the Election Code. We have seen in the last week absolutely disgusting speculation that it is the parliamentary group of the Patriotic Front that is the reason to restrict the rights of Bulgarian citizens abroad. For this reason, I would like to state clearly and categorically on behalf of the entire Parliamentary Group, on behalf of all Bulgarian patriots in the Bulgarian Parliament. The initial text that we proposed was to allow all Bulgarian citizens in the EU member states to vote freely and to reveal sections wherever Bulgarian citizens collect the required number of signatures to open such election sections. The restriction was imposed on non-EU countries. The changes that we will change tomorrow are due to the misunderstanding of the Head of State and especially his unwillingness to protect the national interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. Therefore, I am obliged to state firmly: our position, on the Patriotic Front, and on all Bulgarian patriots was not to restrict the rights and interests of Bulgarian citizens abroad, but to limit the opportunity that the Republic of Turkey has enjoyed for years to intervene in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. This debate was then sharp in parliament. We have been accused of almost limiting the vote in Turkey for political reasons. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the practice has shown that we have, in fact, once again been right. Turkish President Erdogan's statements a few days ago that the Turkish ethnic ground is not only the Republic of Turkey, but also Cyprus, Aleppo, Thessaloniki, Varna and Kardzhali, once again show one thing and this is not the first statement by a Turkish statesman, a Turkish politician, in a similar brutal way making claims against territories that are part of other sovereign states. The Turkish president's statement shows that our thesis was absolutely justified. In Turkey, the electoral process is organised unfreely and is controlled by their Foreign Ministry and is for the benefit of one or another political factor for the one for which the Turkish state administration decided. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I call on my fellow Members when he comes to consider the text, albeit in twelve and five, not to show the typical for the Bulgarian Parliament partisanship, but to show national responsibility, taking into account the actual facts. On behalf of the Patriotic Front, I urge the Bulgarian government, the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry to take a clear and firm position, similar to that which has already taken up the Hellenic Republic, a position that will clearly show the government in Turkey that Bulgaria is not part of some new neo-Osmanian empire, and Bulgaria is a sovereign state that can and will defend its national sovereignty and its national pride! Thank you, fellow Members. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. Moving on to item two on the agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY ANCETTE COMMISSION FOR THE MOVEMENT OF ALL DATA, FACTS AND CONCESSIONS FOR THE COLLECTION OF THE CONCESSION FOR ADDING THE ANNUAL BASSINE, PARTICIPATION BABINO, FOR THE PERIOD 2005 TO THE END OF MONTH SEPTEMBER 2016 On behalf of the importers, the People's Representative Delyan Dobrev. Here you are, dear Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal is dictated by the fact that last week, on Friday, we had an extraordinary meeting of the Energy Commission, which became clear facts and circumstances related to the process of granting a concession to Mini Bobov dol. In fact, as facts and circumstances became clear, they did not become clear because the Ministry of Energy could not respond to what principle this concession was given. Initially in 2005, it was written that there must be a concession procedure or other procedure, for example, privatisation for the acquisition of assets in this mine. At some point, it turns out that the mine suddenly falls into private hands, into a private legal entity, without having any type of competition procedure or choice of procedure, for the choice of the private company in question. This private company subsequently sold the concession to another private company for the amount of 35 million. EUR and, notice, this happens only a few months after the first legal entity has acquired ownership of the concession. In this sense: The purpose of the Temporary Commission is to clarify the data, facts and circumstances surrounding the granting and acquisition of concession rights for coal mining from the Bobovdol Coal Basin, Babino section. During a meeting of the Energy Commission on 14 October 2016, the Ministry of Energy set out a number of disturbing facts about the procedure under the concession contract in question. By decision No 79 of 9 February 2005, the Council of Ministers granted a concession to In the concession contract there is a strange clause stating: The concession contract enters into force from the date of transfer of ownership of the concessionaire's shares under a privatisation contract or by another type of transaction that happened earlier. According to the information provided by the Ministry of Energy, although this circumstance is not fulfilled, the concession is effective. On 19 February 2007, the Council of Ministers took a decision with No 108 granting the right to On 26 February 2007, Annex No 1 was signed, with which all rights under the concession contract of Mini Bobov dol Subsequently, the "Oranovo" was renamed into "Open" "Bobov dol" Ltd. In the public domain was reported that the mine was acquired against 1 BGN. During the Commission the People's Representative Valentin Nikolov showed a contract, according to which only a few months after the signing of Annex No 1, a contract was signed between..Balkan....................................................................................... Euros. People's representative Delyan Dobrev asked the Minister of Energy whether this is true and with what procedure was chosen company. Was there a privatisation procedure, a concession procedure, or any other type of competitive procedure? If there is no competition or privatisation procedure for the choice of concessionaire and the price is really 1 BGN, then how is the price determined? The Ministry of Energy has no other documents than the 2005 contract, which has not entered into force nor Annex No 1 of 26 February 2007, which transferred the rights to These circumstances suggest that state interest is not protected. Krasimir Mihailov Hristov acquired rights without a competition or privatisation procedure, several months later he sold the purchased for 1 BGN. rights against 35 million. Euros. Following the embarrassing data and circumstances, the MPs from the Energy Commission have united around the idea of setting up a temporary parliamentary committee to check whether the state interest in the case of mines is protected in the period 2005 - 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. National Representative Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Bulgarian Assembly will have to change its way of working in order to respond to a number of problems in society. We have expressed certain concerns about this approach, which we are witnessing on each of the problems in the country, a committee of inquiry is being set up. At the same time, we have made it clear in the Commission and today here in this House also that the BSP Parliamentary Group will support the creation of this Commission for several reasons. We want all the facts, data and circumstances regarding this case to be put on the table and to come out, as I regret to say it, but the last days I have to call it a slight speculation, with certain facts that are exported and commented without considering the case in full. Therefore, I think that it is in the interests of both the National Assembly and the Bulgarian society to put the whole case on the table. I am pleased that the draft decision also reflected the discussion of the Energy Commission in which we proposed that the period and scope of the verification be the actions of granting a concession by 2016. The major issues to be examined by this Commission are: how did it come to provide the mine for rent or concession? [[noise and lines]] , all the facts of this matter. There's a lease, too. It is very interesting to see why it came to this treaty, what were the reasons why it came to this treaty. We will very much insist from now on to check how this contract was implemented in all these years, what the revenues were for the state on it, how different state institutions over time treated this problem. Some of the colleagues and I were in the mines during the strike last week and we saw horrific paintings. Therefore, the Commission must also deal with this: what have the institutions responsible done to get to this picture that we are witnessing today? Turns out there are more than 256 checks related to labour law that have established over 800 penal decrees. It is good to see the other state authorities, the revenue agencies how and how they dealt with these companies. I'm glad this is the subject of this inspection. Again I say: BSP will support this Commission and we will always insist that the truth come to light. I'll allow myself, Mr. Chairman, to make a few editorial adjustments to the Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u67	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u68	In the title itself and in point. 1 in order to be as precise as possible, where we are talking about all the data, facts and circumstances surrounding the provision, to make it clear that we are also talking about implementation. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 colleagues propose that the Commission should have a six-month period of action and the proposal I am making is that the Commission's deadline of action should be three months. We were just commenting on a committee of inquiry on the fuel sector, where I say that the volume of information and mass is huge and vast compared to what we have as a task for this Commission. There, you know, we put a deadline of three months, so it seems to me that there is no reason to delay the ruling of this Commission in time. If it turns out to be so complicated both as matter, and as facts and circumstances, you know that there is always an opportunity to extend the deadline, but it seems to me that by creating the Commission for a period of three months, we will respond better to all the questions and expectations of its work.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. I've noted your editorial suggestions. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u70	Dear Mr. Boychev, your proposals are clear and I think they can be supported by our group for editing in the Decision. However, what I am interested in is that you mentioned that there is a lease that was not mentioned during the Commission. You obviously have more information in this regard as well, if you could tell us how this lease was sold accordingly. If there's a lease, you can rent an asset, can you rent that lease if you don't own the assets, sell it to someone for 35 million? Euros? Even if that happened, even if that's possible, for example you're renting one apartment for 10 years, at some point you're selling someone else the right to live in this apartment for a huge amount of 35 million. Euros. The question arises again as to why the State did not receive this 35 million. Euros, given that the apartment in my example is state? So, if you could give us more information on this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Second line? Here you are, Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, from the Parliamentary Group of Party GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, what is the meaning of the rent? It's not an apartment, it's not a car, what does it mean for rent? This is, in my opinion, a concession and should be called by the right names, the relevant actions that were carried out at that time. Why are you hiding behind the words for rent? What does this word for rent suit you? Why don't you call it a concession and from then on let's speak truths?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u73	For a dollar!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u74	And for a dollar! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line? A hole, dear Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u76	I don't know what the line was made for. I made two proposals on the content of the decision, and it concerns all the facts and circumstances of acquisition and implementation, and in my statement, which I commented, in the way parts of the truth were exported in this case, various sales contracts for 1 BGN were brandished for sale for 35 million. Euros. I said I got some leases, too. I'm saying what got to me. [[Heckling]] For rent, yes. There's a contract like that. That's why I don't see how it can be the subject of a comment. I said that to draw conclusions about the case, figuratively speaking, "Bobov dol" only on a sample of one document or another, without looking at the contents of the whole picture until today, is not necessary. That's why I said there were a number of other documents. That's what I said right now, and you'll see that there are contracts like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u77	Thank you. Any further comments? [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Boychev, please! Next statements "sister Velizar Enchev."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I hope that the committee that will be formed will pay particular attention to a union issue. Because I was in the mine twice during the protests last week and now I speak on behalf of the miners who talked to me. [[Strong noise, lines and calls from GERB.]] In fact, I will talk not only about the working conditions in the mini-Bobov dol. I will talk about the ugly person of Bulgarian capitalism and I think that this committee should pay special attention to this ugly person. First of all, working conditions are terrifying. Go for just one hour when the miners leave the mines to find out what the results of this vicious capitalism in Bulgaria are. As far as the remuneration is concerned, the wages are paid irregularly, at three months or if they are paid regularly, not in full. However, when I talk about mines, of course, this is not the subject of the work of this committee, I cannot pass the conditions of life and work at the Briquette Factory, which is also owned by Mr. Kovachki. [[Noise and lines.]] True, it is not included as a topic in this committee of inquiry, but we should not turn a blind eye to the working conditions, for payment in Mr. Kovachki's businesses. Yes, Mr. Kovachki has his parliamentary group here, and I hope they come out on this stage now, then, when the committee is working to talk about the human factor as well. Here, you see this map. The miners have shown me hundreds of such cards, in which in the last two years the so-called food cans have been imported. When I asked the question... [[(Powerful noise and lines from GERB: The map! Show the map!]] When I asked the question... Please don't interrupt me. [[Strong noise, lines and calls from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u79	Please calm down in the hall! Mr. Enchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u80	When I put the matter to the temporarily running the mine...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u81	On the mah-mah-pah!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u82	I'm talking about setting up a committee of inquiry... [[GERB calls.]] I can't understand you wanting to take my word for it, or you're gonna let me talk. I'm talking about it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u83	If I have to, I'll take her away from you. Here you go. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u84	If it were up to you, ma'am, you would at all take away the floor of the entire opposition.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u85	But don't get into a debate with the House. Talk to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u86	When you shut them up, then I won't go into debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u87	I'm not an animal tamer. Still, please talk about it! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u88	In addition, there is a political and economic racket on the workers, on the miners, in the mini-Bobov dol. The miners took out, and this is what the national televisions took out last year during the local elections. Hardly anyone will deny me that last year, on the eve of the local elections, MPs even from this party, which is here in parliament, have spoken to the miners and said that if you do not vote for our municipal councillors, you will not get your salaries. If no one believes me in what I'm saying, I'm prepared to bring you miners who will confirm that. Of course, miners who have already left or retired. I can't understand the reaction in the room to what I'm saying. Doesn't that concern you? Are you not expressing the interests of Bulgarian workers? [[Noise and lines.]] I'm talking about it, of course. I do not deviate from it at all, that is to say, I demand that this committee deal with the financial parameters of those working in the mini-bov dol..............................the salaries, their irregular payout, the political and economic racket that I have talked about, which makes them dependent on political lines, and not just more financially economic. The payment of the money, I repeat again as a summary in these debit cards, which have no value, and in many debit cards the average amount that has not been paid is between 300 and 800 BGN. And now the scandalous one can cash in these debit cards and only buy food from the shops of Mr. Kovachki's Europe, and for one year the stores of the company have gone bankrupt, that is to say these cards have no value. Therefore, I ask that the MPs from the Bulgarian Democratic Center and Dr. Kovachka come out on this stand and say what I have given about the status of the workers in the Bulgarian Democratic Center and Dr. Kovachka is not true. What is it that I say is a lie, and when will this terror of the workers in Bobov dol? I cannot say that this political terror is in a briquette factory, but since I know the conditions very well in the town of Galabovo, I can argue that the conditions at a briquette factory in Galabovo are more terrifying than mini-bobov dol. Therefore, I will say again, I speak on behalf of the workers who talked to me and asked me to bring all this to the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Noise, lines and calls from GERB.]] Thank you for your attention and I hope Dr. Kovachka will take note.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u89	- What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches, fellow Members? Mr. Valentin Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I think that this committee should quite resonate itself. Indeed, the relationship between an employer and a worker is important and the relevant institutions, which monitor precisely these relations, are correct and legal. But I don't think this is the subject of this committee. It is the subject of this committee whether the State is damaged and how it was done precisely by relations between a State concessionaire, state-owned enterprises how they passed into private hands and in what way a private person taking advantage of state-owned companies benefits from state capital at some point benefitting from 35 million. EUR provided that this money could have gone to the state. I, of course, received this contract, which was concluded between two private entities, where the transfer of the capital of a company for 35 million is shown. EUR, provided that this company has a capital of 5000 BGN, where the company only holds the concession of the mine. I would also like to quote another document confirming the need for this committee in order to be able to examine these documents, and this document is an opinion of the Directorate of Economic and Social Policy. I will quote: The adoption of a decision by the Council of Ministers to grant permission to transfer the rights and obligations under the concession contracts will be unmotivated and accepted in violation of art. 25, para. 3 in relation to Art. 23, para. 1 of the Law on Underground Treasures. This fact constitutes a stand-alone reason to argue that the decision of the Council of Ministers will be invoked. Unlawful! This is precisely what statehood shows, and I would say even brings into mind how the Council of Ministers makes this illegal decision and 35 million. Euros go into private hands, so I think this committee is very important, timely to establish these facts, and from now on this committee can be extended and other privatisations and concessions can be seen in how they have been given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? There are no other lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u92	Mr. President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, I take note of the following matter. I think we have one particular text of a decision that needs to be taken. We have specific editorial proposals which, as far as I understand from Mr. Dobrev's statement, are acceptable, such as reducing the deadline and introducing the subject of the committee of inquiry, the implementation of concession contracts. Everything so far would have been normal if colleagues had not gone into rhetoric about the Commission's work. I keep thinking that if we're going to continue to be in this tone of voice who has what documents, if we from BSP also pull documents here on the table, there will be no need for a committee. He'll need plenary sessions to investigate what happened. Therefore, let us not use the National Assembly's stands for preliminary suggestions on the topic. Let us not give any further qualifications as to whether there is legality, whether there is appropriateness, what has happened, how it happened and why it happened, because it may be that all these documents which have been extracted, apart from the archives, have been removed from the context of the events. Please, let us concentrate on adopting this decision. The faster this Commission is working with the entire volume of documentation and with a hearing of all interested parties, the more objective and unsubstantiated decisions on this important point will be taken. The problem is not only related to how legally and how this concession was granted. This is extremely important. The problem is also related to what is happening now in the mines. Here I fully agree that it may be that we will not limit ourselves to only the Mini Bobov dol. There may be other concessions to give underground wealth, but let us leave this to the Commission, which I hope to choose, to do its job, not to discuss it here, from the stands of the National Assembly. I therefore call on my fellow Members, if you do not have anything that is essentially linked to editorial proposals on this decision, to limit ourselves to this point and to vote on this decision. Let's move on, because we have enough important work to do, including tomorrow's Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I'm sorry, colleagues on the left, however, the other day when we talked about setting up a Commission to examine all the circumstances surrounding the nuclear power plant, you had the same rhetoric and the same way of speaking, namely: let's create the committee, past past past, all such lines were heard, this has happened in the past, let's see the present. No, colleagues, I can't agree with you. Why? If we look at the whole problem globally, we will understand that this is a way of thinking of the rulers who have had indiscretion, or because of some other economic interests they have made decisions that have been absolutely contrary to the state interest. It's a way of thinking that's been lining up for decades. In fact, with these committees, although Parliament is not an investigative body, although Parliament will not give a verdict in the end, it will come to some findings, but it is important to society and future generations, for future people who will also take such positions, to know that at some point someone will take responsibility for them. We can't just say, "Let's put the past aside." Let's go for NPP Belene three billion away. Come on, 35 million. Euros for Mini Bobov to the side! - There is no way! We are a parliamentary republic and as MPs we are called and elected precisely to come to such extreme conclusions, to seek the truth and, if necessary, to signal the relevant authorities. I don't mind, Mr. Boychev, which you suggested, and Mr. Ermenkov is looking for even if there is some guilt at the moment. One of the institutions that has a direct bearing on the work of these mines has not done its job. If she hasn't done her job to take responsibility, there's nothing wrong with that. But the fact is, 35 million. Euros, we'll get to know the documents well enough...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u95	It's a lease.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u96	Whether it's rent, whether it's a concession, it absolutely doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u97	What do you mean, it doesn't matter?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u98	It's important that 35 million. Euros have gone into someone's hands without the state in any way benefiting from this, so it is really nice to set up this committee. We must not forget the past, on the contrary we must start there, and in today's day, if someone has not done his job, I do not mind everyone taking their own responsibility. That's why everyone is actually in some responsible position and has to be held responsible. This, fellow Members, is a way of thinking, and it has been gaining weight for many years. It is important to root out this way of thinking that somewhere anyone can do whatever they want, can mask it one way or another and no one will ever take responsibility for it. No, that's enough!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. A line? Here you go. First, "Zelyo Boychev," then Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I did not expect that the debate on this Commission would unfold so much, but I am obliged to make a reply to Mr. Nenkov, a few things to become clear. This case cannot be compared to the NPP Commission. Our objections were there because this case, so-called "NPP" "Belene" was the subject of an inspection of a National Assembly, was the subject of a check of a number of state institutions, including the Agency, which led the Minister of Energy, which is currently and is currently being investigated by the Prosecutor's Office. That was the gap, so don't make an analogy with this case. We have clearly stated in both the Commission and today in plenary, we will vote for this committee. An hour sooner we want the truth to come out. However, I will have to disappoint you if you think that the objectives with which you are creating this Commission will respond to the result of its work. I very much hope that she will do her job and bring the whole truth to the Bulgarian society in this case. As for the way we plan, we believe, and I personally believe in the division of the Bulgarian authorities. I regret that the Bulgarian Parliament will have to become a judicial body. We do not have such expectations for the Bulgarian National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] But so that there is no one left with the doubt that someone is hiding something, or that someone is afraid of something, we immediately support the creation of this Commission and the removal of all the facts and circumstances. In the Energy Committee, I addressed the two ministers who were present, as it gives the impression that there are spectacular violations, not yet aware of the facts. I told the ministers because they showed contracts that I do not have: if any of you claim to have any violation, my request is now and now, as a Bulgarian minister to refer to the competent authorities. And I expect the contracts that have been carried out will have already been submitted to these institutions and started checking on them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This will also help the work of the Commission itself, as we do not have such a function to distribute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u101	Your time, Mr. Boychev, is up. The line is Stanislav Ivanov. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nenkov, let me disagree with you, because you can't tell if the lease is a concession. Mr. Nenkov, the lease contract is a lease for something that might be a moving item, real property and so on. We're talking about a concession here, Mr. Nenkov. Colleagues get away with rent, you know why? In order not to remove perhaps this contract, to see that it is a concession contract, to see what the penalties in this contract are, because they must be recorded inside. Even if we can keep this case quiet, make it a lease, blow it up somewhere and get this over with. You can't do this, Mr. Nenkov! You need to look at all the contracts, all the documents, see if it's a lease. If it's a concession contract, let's see what it says, what penalties there are in this concession and what it's about. Therefore, let us be responsible and not make such speeches, Mr. Nenkov. Thank you. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u103	Mr. Ermenkov, there are three more willing groups. Will you give them up?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u104	I had saved a second line, but I gave in to Mr. Ivanov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u105	That's right. You have to get the lines on time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u106	Dear Mr. Nenkov, I would like you to read once again the transcript of what we have said in this Commission to see that in any case we have not said to forget the past and look into the future. Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u107	You said about Belene.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u108	Mr. Chairman, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u109	Don't call from the spot, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u110	I can't believe I'm not gonna call!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u111	Don't call from the spot! Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u112	You will not read anywhere in the shorthand that we, speaking of this Commission today, have said that we should cover the situation. On the contrary, we have expanded the scope by exactly what you have said here.... how this concession was implemented, what obligations there were, what was done. We only said not to turn today's meeting into the Commission's first meeting. It's not our job today! Today we must vote on a decision to set up a committee and then, when this committee is assembled in the composition in which we choose it, to begin to examine all the documents in their entirety, and not to draw separate documents from here, from there. We need to see the whole picture and draw the appropriate conclusions. I fully agree, these conclusions will lead to a situation where certain mines and certain undertakings granted in concession rather than benefit the State are not required to benefit only the private person. This isn't just the mines we're talking about. Here are other concessions, including gold mining, but do not deviate from the topic. That's what we've been talking about, Mr. Nenkov, not squirting things, but doing our job, choosing this committee as quickly as possible, so that it can work as quickly as possible. Otherwise, what you said is, in my opinion, an attempt to insinuate and forgery our statements today from this tribune.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u113	Not today, it was the other day.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Nenkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Ermenkov and Mr. Boychev, your line was not correct because it did not get into the subject at all. I didn't try to tilt the scales anywhere in my speech. On the contrary, I said, and I think that the two problems should be separated. I say it with my hand on my heart. Parliament must not be turned into an accuser, a court of law or anything else. In history, such moments have not been positive for democracy. It was no accident that I didn't get into the subject at all, but I said that there were more than two moments. One is purely objective, professional. In this committee, we'll get to know the contracts, find out who's guilty, who's wrong and who's right. If there is evidence of any violation, things will go to the institution concerned. I leaned on the other important moment, because we, as a legislative body, are also performing political functions. As MPs, we are politicians, above all, when we speak from this tribune. The political motive for the creation of this Commission and for the creation of the Commission for the NPP of Belene and for the establishment of any other commission investigating any circumstances and facts is to establish whether the formal, convoluted, legislatively relevant law is fulfilled at the appropriate time, whether the thinking of the people, their activities according to their decisions are in line with the interests of the State. We, as Parliament, can verify this in this Commission. As to whether or not someone is guilty, we will not be the people to judge. Yes, you do. But the thinking of anyone who holds a high state position from now on, not from here on, but should in general take into account the appropriateness of their decisions, rather than just putting them formally in a legal framework to make sure that no one takes responsibility for them. We must be the people who don't let this happen anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Here's your speech, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We will support this Project for a solution, but listening to the debate, I, meanwhile, have also read the protocol from the Energy Commission, where the topic is quite detailed. I am increasingly convinced that this Commission may prove to be much more significant than a hidden privatisation or whatever it was they were doing in terms of mines, or of coal mining in this area at all. It may prove to be practically emblematic of the way in which some, I wonder how to call them..... perhaps one of the three big in BSP responsible comrades performed hidden privatization with their participation, whether in the office of the triple coalition, or before that in other governments. There's no way I can get the statement from the left that I heard that BSP could get all the documents out. Gentlemen, how are you going to get documents that aren't in the Ministry of Energy?! Here I am reading the shorthand, the minister says: "We have provided all documents to the Commission. This is what the Ministry of Energy has. Suddenly it turns out that on the left you have other documents, because the Energy Commission was not talking about any lease. The other day, a fellow of yours was explaining about the contract in question, even waving it around on TV. I don't know if it was a lease or something, but he was saying, "Here's the lease! I'm beginning to wonder, over the years, in BSP, how many documents have you brought out?! Of course, I can't help but wonder when you'll finally return the archive that's missing the missing part of the State Security archive.! I can't help but ask myself that! I am convinced that this Commission will prove to be much more important than it seems at first glance. I hope he will do his job thoroughly and make it clear to the whole Bulgarian society how in Bulgaria from a poor socialist to one night is already becoming a major capitalist oligarch. That's what happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Slavov, many documents are hidden. Since we are talking about energy and about the Ministry of Energy, honourable Members tried to hide a letter with which the two executives of the NPP "Belene" informed Mr. Dimitrov at the time Minister that it is not necessary to do NPP "Belene". They tried to hide it, but they didn't hide it properly, so we found it at Neck. There are many things hidden and many things need to be shown. That's the job of this polling committee. The prosecution will do its job and will point to the guilty, but we must inform the Bulgarian society, Mr. Slavov. Based on our comments the Bulgarian society will draw its conclusions. It's not the D.A.'s job to pull out documents and show them. Their work is different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Second line, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u121	Mr. Slavov, my line is to confirm your doubt that some people overnight have become capitalists.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u122	You have to disagree with your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u123	This time the line is consent. [[Noise and laughter in GERB.]] Did you know that their chairman of the BSP, who officially in a television broadcast, denies having a stake in the privatized company, has a 37% stake in the privatized company?! Yes, Mrs. Ninova, you have 37%! [[Laughter and applause at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u124	That's not relevant. Are there any other real lines? I won't. A hole? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u125	Ninova, say something!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u126	I'm closing the debate. Allow me to introduce you once again to the draft decision. Quiet, please! "Project DECISION on the establishment of a Temporary Committee of inquiry to verify all data, facts and circumstances surrounding the granting and acquisition of concession rights for coal mining by the Bobovdol Coal Basin, section The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It shall establish a Temporary Committee of inquiry to verify all the data, facts and circumstances surrounding the granting and acquisition of concession rights for coal mining from Bobovdolian coal basin, section "Babino" for the period from 2005 to the end of September 2016. 2. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of this Regulation. 1 shall consist of Members of Parliament from all parliamentary groups and their number shall be determined on a proportionate basis. 3. Selects a guide and composition of the Temporary Committee of inquiry, a total of 20 members as follows:... 4. The Commission shall have a period of six months. First of all, I will put to the vote the editorial proposals made by the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev in the title of the decision after the acquisition. Then in t. 1? in the same way: facts and circumstances surrounding the provision, then there should be a comma here? the acquisition and execution of rights for the concession?, and the text goes on. We vote on editorial proposals. They voted 125 MPs: 106, against 6, abstention 13. Editorial proposals are accepted. We are voting on the project to t. 2 including, together with the adopted editorial proposals. They voted 129 MPs: 125, none, abstention 4. The project has been adopted to t. 2 including, together with editorial proposals. Point 3: "3." Selects a guide and composition of the Temporary Committee of inquiry, a total of 20 members, as follows: ........................................ Here's a suggestion, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u127	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, our proposal is for Delyan Dobrev and for the President of the Commission, Mr. Kiril Kalfin, Stanislav Ivanov, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Nikolov, Methodie Andreyev and Svetlana Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u128	Welcome from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP left Bulgaria....we are proposing the MPs Zhelyo Boychev as Vice-President of the Commission of Research, Tasco Ermenkov and Dragomir Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u130	From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, come in, Mr. Metin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u131	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u132	Mr. Slavov from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u133	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block, we propose colleagues Nikola Hadzhiyski and Valentin Pavlov as Commissioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u134	I am using the case that you are from the importers what structure of the management should be, as many vice-presidents have already started to offer themselves? One chairman and vice-presidents?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u135	I think that we can propose a similar structure, like that of the previous committee, which we voted on: one President and two Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u136	From the looks of it, the other importers agree. We're moving on. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u137	From the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, we propose as Commissioners Atanas Stoyanov and Peter Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u138	Thank you. Parliamentary Group "Bulgarian Democratic Center" "People's Union".
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u139	We're proposing Mr. Georgi Nedev as a member.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u140	On behalf of the Political Party, Ataka.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u141	The Parliamentary Group of "Attack" proposes to be a member of the Commission and Vice-President Nikolay Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u142	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. The Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Revival Alternative.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u143	The ABB Parliamentary Group is proposing as a member of the Commission the People's Representative Lachezar Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u144	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. We are voting on the structure of the leadership, consisting of one President and two Vice-Presidents. 125 MPs voted: 124, none, abstention 1. Structure accepted. We are voting on the number of the Commission - 20 members, as represented by the representatives of each of the parliamentary groups by name. Vote 127 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 1. The Commission's numerical and designation composition has been established. Come in for the procedure, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u145	Mr. Chairman, I believe that you, as the first among equals, should have explained perhaps that the formation of temporary committees of inquiry on a proportionate basis actually reproduces the balance, balance of forces in standing committees and makes them meaningless. The ruling party together with its coalition partners in these temporary committees will form a majority and this prejudges the conclusions of the work of the temporary committee. The temporary committee must be chaired by a representative of the opposition and formed on a parietal principle, otherwise the work of temporary committees on a proportionate basis makes absolutely no sense. The same work should be assigned to the Standing Committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u146	In plenary, by voting the Members of the National Assembly who are present shall determine the principle of the committee and shall rule on the draft decision made available to them. [[Heckling]] We have one single application for President of the Commission and it belongs to the MP Delyan Dobrev. Please vote. Vote 124 MPs: 113 against 2, abstention 9. National Representative Delyan Dobrev is elected President of the Commission. The next proposal for Vice-President of the Commission is for the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev. Please vote. Vote 117 MPs: 79 against 15, abstentioned 23. The next proposal for Vice-President is for the people's representative Ramadan Atalay, made by the Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Please vote. They voted 121 MPs: 27, against 34, abstention 60. The proposal has not collected the required number of votes. The latest proposal for Vice-President is by Nikolay Alexandrov of the political party parliamentary group Ataka. Please vote. They voted 125 MPs: 112 against 1, abstention 12. With the most votes, i.e. with more votes was elected Vice-President Nikolay Alexandrov and second Vice-President Zhelyo Boychev. One of them has 112 votes for the other, 79. We also have to vote on the term of the Commission. That's t. 4 The Commission has a period of six months, only we have an editorial proposal of the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev for a period of three months. First, we vote on the editorial proposal made by the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev. He suggests that the deadline is three instead of six months as per the Project. They voted 115 MPs: 105, none, abstention 10. The proposal for a period of three months has been accepted. If I may, one more suggestion from me. In the title of the Project is written........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I suggest that we add it, as it is clear that there must be a right for the concession. Please vote on the proposal I made you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u147	It's for a lease, right? There's no concession.!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u148	Moreover, in the first point it is written in the same way. Vote 116 MPs: for 115, against none, abstention 1. We have also adopted this editorial amendment, rather an addition, and we can now vote on the whole draft decision with all the editorial amendments and additions that have been made, as with the Commission's numerical composition and leadership. Please vote on the whole draft decision. Vote 119 MPs: 118, against no, abstention 1. The draft decision on the second item of today's agenda has been adopted. We continue with the next item our agenda, and this is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MILK POLICE. Imported by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016, was adopted at the first vote on 31 August 2016. We've been going on since yesterday. The President of the Commission, the People's Representative Miho Mihov, is in front of you. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u149	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before continuing with the report on the Bill, I propose a procedure for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov and the Deputy Director of the Military Police.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u150	We voted yesterday...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u151	There was only one of them. There's a change. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u152	Let's vote shift. Honourable Members, vote on the admission of the persons concerned. Vote 101 MPs: 97 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I'm asking for facial access. You continue, dear Mr. Mihov, with § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u153	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 is finally added to the acquired service. 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The police registration under para. 4 shall also be carried out in the cases and in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Act on the Ministry of Interior and the regulations governing its application, as well as the instruction under art. 26, para. 2. 3. The creation of para. 6: The persons are obliged to cooperate, not to interfere and not to impede the authorities of the service "Military police" in the course of police registration activities. In the event of refusal of the person, actions in the police registration, with the exception of the collection of his personal data referred to in art. 18 of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents are enforced with the permission of a judge of the first instance court, on which the crime of a general nature is charged, for which it is attracted as a defendant.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u154	Paragraph 4 statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I have a specific editorial proposal in order to refine the text, namely: in art. 6, para. 6 after the person to be added within the meaning of para. 1 and in accordance with para. Five o'clock. In the second sentence of para. Article 6 6 after the opening session is added to the military and the sentence continues the First Court of First Instance, on which the crime of general character was convicted, for which it was brought as a defendant. This is a proposal that is editorial and precises the text to make it clear the scope of action of military police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u156	Thank you. - What's the line? None Ladies and gentlemen, any other speeches? I won't. First, we vote on the editorial proposals made by the MP Mr. Yankov in para. 6 at the beginning of the sentence after the first sentence to add a text which he read, as well as in the second sentence to the initial court to become the first instance court. Vote 76 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission for § 4, together with the newly voted editorial amendments. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u157	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 6a: Art. 6a. (1) Office of the Military Police (M.D.) performs expert and expert-criminal activities. (2) In the performance of the activity under para. 1 Officers of the Service of the Military Police shall be able to prepare expertise, expert opinions and reports. (3) For expertise, expert opinion or reference under para. 2, the offices and bodies which have requested or appointed them shall pay the service the costs incurred for work, consumables and overheads by order and by order of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u158	Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on an importer's text edited by the Commission for § 5. Vote 76 MPs: 72, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u159	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the word "security" shall be added. (b) c. 1 the word "property' is replaced by "defensive products'; (c) c. 4 in the beginning is added 2. In para. 4 is finally added as well as to foreign military representatives. 3. The creation of para. 5. In the case of security of strategic sites, the authorities of the service may place temporary or permanent enclosures around these sites. The Strategic Security Sites of the Military Police Office shall be designated by order of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u160	Come in for a statement, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u161	Honourable President, honourable Members! I have a specific addition to para. 4 in art. 7: after the foreign military representatives accredited by the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u162	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the first editorial proposal made in art. 7, la. 4 to be added to the Ministry of Defence and Accredited. They voted 76 MPs: 22, against 31, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members, we are now voting on the text of the importer for § 6, edited by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 5. The proposal for § 7 is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to take a break. We'll continue the session at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u163	Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the House to continue. You have the floor, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u164	Mr. Chairman, we continue with § 7. Paragraph 7 - The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. Paragraph 8 "The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... Art. 9 is amended as follows: Art. 9 (1). Office of the Military Police....has carried out fire control at the premises of the Ministry of Defence, the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army by: 1. carrying out checks to comply with the fire safety rules and regulations in the design, construction and operation of the site; 2. issue of written orders for the implementation of fire safety rules; 3. implementation of administrative coercion measures in the event of the detection of violations of fire safety rules and regulations; 4. a requirement of documents and information relating to the implementation of fire safety by the officials of the Ministry of Defence, the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence, the Bulgarian Army and legal entities; 5. requirement of documents for the exercise of fire-fighting and explosive professions and activities; 6. issue of opinions on compliance with the rules and regulations for fire safety of investment projects; 7. issue of certificates of compliance of objects with fire safety requirements, where provided for in a regulatory act; 8. issue of opinions on compliance with the rules and regulations of fire safety of construction works in relation to their implementation; 9. control for the implementation of the products with the regulatory requirements for fire safety. (2) The rules and regulations for fire safety in the design, construction and operation of the objects under para. 1 and the related activities of the fire control authorities of the service........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 125, para. 2 of the Act of the Ministry of Interior. (3) Office of the Military Police. The Ministry of Defence shall exercise methodical guidance and control in the provision of fire safety, training of personnel, maintenance of fire equipment, the readiness of the premises and units for fire extinguishing the Ministry of Defence, the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army. (4) Certificate, opinion and other document relating to the activities of fire control shall be issued to the owner, user, owner or owner of the establishment under para. 1. (5) When a document under para. 4 per person outside the Ministry of Defence, the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army, fees shall be collected for the relevant activities in the amounts fixed by the fee tariff under § 2, from the additional order of the Ministry of Interior Act. Fees shall be paid in revenue to the budget of the Ministry of Defence. The terms and conditions for issuing documents shall be laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u165	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u166	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My proposal is editorial in § 7, art. 8, para. 3 to be added after the personal data. One, comma.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u167	Yes, thank you, dear Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u168	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u169	Are there any other statements? There are no other speeches. Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u170	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u171	Then we have to finish the other procedures. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Krasimir Yankov, as proposed by the Parliamentary Tribune. We are voting on a proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov! [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u172	Where's BSP?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u173	They're working. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u174	Please, this is outside the room. Abort the vote. There is no reference to the name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danylov Georgiev - absent Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - absent Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - absent Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - absent Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - absent Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - absent Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - absent Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - absent Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - here Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Additionally recorded: Angel Naydenov, Atanas Atanasov, Georg Georgiev, Borislav Milanov, Atanas Zafirov, Doncho Baxanov, Diana Yordanova, Emil Raynov, Zhelyo Boychev, Valeri Zablyanov, Georgi Anastasov, a total of 11 people. We have a quorum, we can proceed. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Krasimir Jankov, as presented by the parliamentary platform. They voted 94 MPs: 71, against 3, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. We will vote on the text of the importer for § 7. The proposal was for § 8... we will vote on it in a moment. We vote on the text of the importer for § 7. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 7 shall be adopted unanimously. We are now voting § 8 on the Commission report, together with the adopted editorial proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Krasimir Jankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u175	Vote 97 MPs: 94, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u176	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "al." The following shall be added to the list: 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The persons are obliged to cooperate, not to interfere and not to impede the authorities of the military police in carrying out the actions under para. 4. In the event of the refusal of the persons, the actions shall be carried out with the permission of a judge of the first instance military court concerned. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u177	Statements, honourable Members, referred to in paragraphs 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13? Mr. Yankov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a specific editorial proposal in § 12 in order to refine the text after 11, para. The sentence goes on and on and on which no measure has been taken for non-retribution is taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u179	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Ladies and gentlemen, we first vote on the editorial proposal made by the MP Mr. Yankov, as it was read from the stands. Vote 108 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 10. The editorial proposal for art. Twelve is accepted. Now, honourable Members, we are voting on an annexation paragraphs by importer, supported by the Commission,.................................................................................................. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u180	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u181	Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, for § 14. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u182	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Article 18 is amended as follows: Art. 18. (1) In the performance of their duties, the authorities of the service shall be able to use physical force and assistance only where this is absolutely necessary in: 1. countermeasures or refusal to execute a legal order; 2. detention of an intruder who disobeys or resists an authority of the service; 3. attempt of a convoy or detained person to escape, to harm his life or the life and health of others; 4. assisting other state authorities or officials; 5. attacks against citizens and bodies of the service; 6. release of hostages; 7. group violations by servicemen of public and military order; 8. attacks on buildings, premises, facilities and means of transport of the Ministry of Defence, structures of direct obedience to the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army; 9. release of illegally employed objects of the Ministry of Defence, structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army if ordered by a competent authority. (2) In the performance of their duties relating to the transfer of documents or materials containing classified information, the authorities of the Office shall be entitled to use physical force and assistance when attempting unauthorised access to correspondence only if this is absolutely necessary. (3) Aids are: handcuffs, straitjackets, batons and utensils; chemicals approved by the Minister of Health; service animals.. dogs; blank cartridges, rubber cartridges, plastic and shock bullets; vehicle braking devices; space opening devices, light and acoustic devices with a distraction effect; armored machines. (4) Physical force and assistance shall be used after warning, except for cases of sudden attack and release of hostages. (5) The use of physical force and assistance shall take into account the particular situation, the nature of the breach of public or military order and the identity of the intruder. (6) The authorities of the service shall use only the necessary force. (7) When using physical force and assistance, the authorities shall take all measures to protect the lives and health of the persons against whom they are directed. (8) The use of physical force and assistance shall be suspended immediately after its legitimate purpose has been achieved. (9) The use of physical force and assistance shall be prohibited with regard to visible minors and pregnant women. The prohibition does not apply to cases under para. 1, t. 2, 3, 5, 6 and 8, when all other funds are exhausted. (10) The use of life-threatening force to detain or prevent the escape of a person committing or committing a non-violent act shall be prohibited if the person does not pose a risk to the life and health of another person. (11) The order of use of physical force and assistance shall be determined by a decree of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u183	Thank you. Statements on proposals § 15? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Specific addition to art. 18, para. 1, t. 6 To add: comma which are persons under art.11, para 1, as well as in objects within the meaning of art. 7.............................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u185	We don't need arguments. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote, honourable Members, the editorial amendment proposed by Mr. Yankov. Please vote. They voted 97 MPs: 19 against 57 abstention 21. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u186	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u187	Mr. Yankov, didn't you manage to vote? You didn't. Okay, here you go. A lot of people didn't get a vote, they're just not in the room. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u188	In my opinion, there are also those in the Chamber, but they have not voted. I am taking a re-voting procedure on the grounds that not all who are visible in this House have voted. I would like to draw your attention, fellow Members, to the fact that this is a matter of clarifying the text and specifying the scope of the military police action. With this text, as proposed, once the Appendix is not accepted, we leave the possibility of releasing hostages and citizens who are not within the scope of the Office being subject to the work of the Military Police. And so far, all the texts I propose as editorial are to specify the scope of action of the Military Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u189	Dear colleagues, we are revisiting the proposed editorial proposal made by the MP Mr. Yankov. They voted 99 MPs: 22, against 62, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting, fellow Members, an importer's text, edited by the Commission for § 15. Vote 92 MPs: 85 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President, please do not allow re-vote with motives that are not entitled to be used in cases, as my colleague said just now that many people could not vote. Look at all these people! Seven people...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u191	There's eight of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u192	Eight people...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u193	Nine.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u194	Nine people, but they voted seven. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] They voted seven people! Look, these people don't stay in the gym, they want us to work. Are these the people who want to work for 76 people?! I ask you, where are your 76 people?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u195	What do you have for me, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u196	Mr. Chairman, if you please, strictly follow the regulations and do not allow your colleagues to waste the entire room. You can see that from GERB we are all here, from the Reformation Bloc all the groups that support the cabinet are here and the colleagues from BSP are not here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u197	Mr. Ivanov, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u198	This is my procedure for you. Please follow the Rules and Rules of Procedure, which say exactly how revoting can be requested! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u199	Mr. Ivanov, I have always complied with the call you have. In this case, again: nine people were seven voted, two did not vote. What am I supposed to do? Thank you. The way you're holding Mr. Zafirov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u200	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to make a remark to the speaker and, if you have to remove the transcript from yesterday, when he made a proposal for a revoting without absolutely any argument. He just went out on that stand and said, "I'm making a proposal to re-vote and sit down. Now he explains how such an explanation should be justified.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u201	No, it's not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u202	It's a strange split of personality from this tribune!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u203	Thank you. I'll take a look at the transcript. [[Replications between the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Atanas Zafirov.]] Let's move on. [[National Representative Stanislav Ivanov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] It's a procedure, not a statement, Mr. Ivanov. It's a procedure in the manner of conduct. Moving on to § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u204	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u205	Statements? Mr. Yankov. I hope that you will then carefully vote all of you so that we do not have a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am making two proposals which I ask you to put to the vote separately. One of them is in art. 19th para. 4 shall be added after.. for their removal.. within their The second proposal is para. Six down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u207	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We vote, first, an editorial proposal of Mr. Yankov for art. 19th para. 4 as it was read from the stands. Please, voting mode. [[Noise and lines.]] Only the first for para. 4. Everyone voted, including on the left. They voted 99 MPs: 83 against 9, abstention 7. The editorial proposal for para. Four is accepted. We are now voting on Mr. Iankov's editorial proposal to drop para. 6. Vote 96 MPs: 19 against 64 abstentions 13. The proposal to drop para. Six is not acceptable. I declare a vote, honourable Members, on the text of the importer for § 16, supported by the Commission, together with the voting editorial proposal for para. 4. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u208	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18. .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Minister of Defence shall confirm the Office's appointments on a proposal from the Director of the Military Police on the basis of the classifier under para. 1 and the Classifier of the posts in the administration. 2. The creation of para. 4. The Minister of Defence has approved an Ethical Code of Staff of the Military Police Service.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u209	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u210	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u211	Thank you. That's it. Statements on the proposed paragraphs? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, an bloc text of the importer, supported and edited by the Commission for paragraphs 17 to 22, including. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u212	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23: ..................................................... Chapter 4 is created with art. 26a: ..Chapter 4......................................................................................................... Forced administrative measures Art. 26a. (1) To prevent and stop violations related to fire safety of the objects under art. 9, as well as to eliminate the negative consequences of these, the Minister of Defence or officials authorised by him may suspend the construction, commissioning and use of sites, installations, appliances and facilities and stop other activities which pose a threat to the occurrence of fires and accidents. (2) The order for the enforcement of a compulsory administrative measure under para. 1 may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (3) The order under para. 2 shall be subject to immediate execution unless the court decides otherwise.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u213	Paragraph 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u214	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: supposed to carry out a written order under art. 9, para. 1, t. 2 or an order under art. 26a, is punished with a fine from 200 to 2000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u215	Thank you. Statements under § 23 and § 24? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the importer's enblock text, edited by the Commission for § 23 and § 24. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u216	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Articles 28a, 28b and 28c are inserted: Art. 28a. Anyone who violates the rules and regulations for fire safety in the operation of objects shall be punished with a fine of up to BGN 500. Art. 28b. Department of Military Police (M.A.) or employee under art. 10, para. 4, who loses his official card, is punished with a fine of BGN 10 to 200. Art. 28c. Who, without having the right, uses uniformed clothing, symbols and distinguishing marks or service card indicating belonging to the service.. Military police................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u217	Statements? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 25 and supported by the importer by the Commission for § 26. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u218	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 (1) The regulations governing the enforcement of the law shall be issued or brought into conformity with that law within 6 months of its entry into force. (2) Until the issue or alignment of the acts under para. 1 to the extent that they do not conflict with this Law, the regulations in force shall apply. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u219	Why do I think that the Commission does not support the text?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u220	........................ 29...................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 29. Correction.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u221	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I won't. Now, honourable Members, we will first vote on the Commission's unsupported text of the importer for § 29. [[Noise and lines.]] Unsupported by the Commission proposal! They voted 91 MPs: 13, against 44, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. Now, honourable Members, before the last vote, we are voting accordingly on the text of the importer supported by the Commission for the name of the division plus paragraphs 27 and 28. Please, voting mode. [[Noise and lines.]] Supported by the Commission paragraph! Mr. Mihov, just stay... There's going to be a re-election. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u222	Let's just go back: re-vote paragraphs 7 and 8. There was a proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov, which was accepted. It refers to § 7 and not to § 8. We return to § 7, the proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Yankov was accepted, re-votes § 7 with the adopted proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Yankov. [[Noise and lines.]] It is made at § 7 in art. Eight, yeah. So we are now revoting § 7 with the proposal made by the People's Representative Krasimir Jankov and accepted by the Chamber for Art. 8. Vote 94 MPs: 92, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 7 together with the proposal adopted by the National Representative Krasimir Jankov has been accepted. We are now voting § 8 in the version of the Commission. Please vote! Vote 92 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 1. Paragraph 8 in the version of the Commission has been adopted. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u223	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I allow myself to request this procedure because I have concerns about the last vote, which was in respect of § 29. I believe that we have failed to properly navigate the Commission's will. The Commission has not supported the text of the importer for § 29, respectively, we rejected the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u224	On a proposal that it should not be accepted... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u225	Yes, I would therefore ask that, if you would allow a re-vote, we vote on the Commission's proposal for § 29. In fact, even if we assume that we do not remove, let us say, this authorisation is a rule that says that the Law is effective from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. However, given the reasons for the instant entry into force, let it be within the established time limit of three days after its publication.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u226	I will respect your offer. Dear colleagues, we are revoting § 29. The proposal belongs to the Commission. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Please, voting mode. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is accepted, and with this the final paragraph of the Bill. Moving on to point five: This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u227	The bill is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism as the leading Commission. Then the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mrs. Saveklieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I would like to do a procedure on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber by the Ministry of Economy: Luben Petrov
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u229	Honourable Members, voting regime for admission to the Chamber. 70 MPs voted: 65, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the faces. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva, to brief us on the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u230	♪ I can't believe under a bill for ratification of the Betting Treaty on the balance sheet between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the implementation of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Initiative for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 2014-2020, No 602-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2016. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 28 September 2016, examined and discussed the Draft Law on the ratification of the Betting Treaty on the Account between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the Implementation of the Initiative for Small and Medium Enterprises under the Operational Programme. The meeting was attended by: Daniela Vezeva, Deputy Minister of Economy, and Kalin Marinov, Deputy Director-General of the Directorate-General for European Competitiveness Funds. The bill was presented by Daniela Vezeva. The contract to bet on traders the account is the last document of the package of agreements and bet contracts needed for the implementation of the Operational Program. For the implementation of the Instrument for unlimited guarantees under the Initiative for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, in accordance with the provisions of the General Regulation and art. 13 of the Financing Agreement, the European Investment Fund (EIF) shall open and keep on behalf of the Managing Authority two accounts: - an account of the Target Component (Operational Account), and - balance sheet account (account of availability). The account of the target component shall be used exclusively in relation to transactions or operations in accordance with the Financing Agreement. The account of the target component shall be credited with the contribution to the Operational Programme, refunds of funds, revenue and penalties and shall be debited with the necessary amounts in relation to current operations, management costs and fees, the amounts reimbursed to the Managing Authority within the framework of the exit policy. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. Any rights to the Managing Authority in relation to both accounts shall be granted as a first bet in order to secure the payment to the EIF of all amounts due by the Managing Authority of the EIF. It is agreed that the account of the target component will be opened in a commercial bank in Luxembourg and that the account will be opened in the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB). The contract for betting on traders the account contains financial obligations for the state, provides for participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in arbitration settlement of international disputes. A number of questions were raised in the subsequent discussion of the importers: what is the relief for small and medium-sized enterprises; whether the Treaty is not a relief for banks; what is the role of the Ministry of Economy in negotiating light conditions for lending to businesses; is it not better for the EC's money to go directly into the business of the current mechanisms, rather than going through the intermediary banks? In response to the questions raised by the MPs, Deputy Minister Vezeva commented that the biggest relief for small and medium-sized enterprises in the use of loans under the Initiative will be the eased conditions for securing claims. There is no national co-financing under the initiative, which implies a different line of funding for small and medium-sized enterprises. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the results vote: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law on the ratification of the Betting Treaty on the balance between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the Implementation of the Small and Medium Enterprises Initiative under the Operational Programme
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Budget and Finance Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Betting Treaty on the balance sheet between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the implementation of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Initiative for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 2014-2020, No 602-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2016. At a regular meeting held on 12 October 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Betting Treaty on the Traders account between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the Implementation of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Initiative under the Operational Programme of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 2014-2020, No 602-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2016. The bet contract on traders account is a document from the package of bet agreements and bet contracts needed for the implementation of the Operational Program "Initiative for small and medium-sized enterprises." For the implementation of the Instrument for unlimited guarantees under the Small and Medium Enterprises Initiative, the European Investment Fund (EIF) shall open and keep on behalf of the Managing Authority two accounts: an account of the Assigned Component (Operational Account) and a balance sheet (Free Stock Account). Any rights to the Managing Authority in relation to both accounts shall be granted as a first bet in a row in order to secure the payment to the European Investment Fund of all amounts due by the Managing Authority of the EIF. It is agreed that the account of the target component will be opened in a commercial bank in Luxembourg and that the account will be opened in the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB). The effect for small and medium-sized enterprises using loans under the Initiative is expressed in the light conditions for securing claims and the order for financing is that described in the documents. The initiative does not provide for national funding. The contract for betting on traders the account contains financial obligations for the state, provides for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in arbitration settlement of international disputes and explicitly provides for ratification, which requires on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 t. 5 and so on. 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria the need to ratify. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 15 votes for the auction account between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the Implementation of the Small and Medium Enterprises Initiative for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises on 15 September 2016, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u233	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. The report from the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u234	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Betting Treaty on the balance sheet between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the implementation of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Initiative for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 2014-2020, No 602-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2016. At its meeting held on 12 October 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on the ratification of the Betting Treaty on Traders between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the Implementation of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Initiative under the Operational Programme "Initiative for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises" 2014-2020, No 602-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2016. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Lyuben Petrov, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Ivelina Peneva, Director General, and Mr. Kalin Marinov, Deputy Director General at the Directorate General, European Competitiveness Funds. The bill was presented by Mr. Petrov, who pointed out that the bet contract on the account is a condition for the signing and launching of the first operational agreements with the financial intermediaries selected by the European Investment Fund under the Operational Programme. He clarified that the Operational Programme aims to ensure lending to small and medium-sized enterprises in light mode. Mr. Petrov noted that under the Agreement between the creditors signed on 2 March 2016 and the Financing Agreement on the Initiative for Small and Medium Enterprises under the Operational Programme The Ratification of the Betting Treaty on Trailers account shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 7 votes for abstentions, without the Minister of Economy and the European Investment Fund for the Implementation of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Initiative for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and the Investment Fund for the Implementation of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Initiative 2014-2020, No 602-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2016....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u235	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The Commission's report on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is final. Here you go, Mrs. Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u236	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Betting Treaty on the balance sheet between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the implementation of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Initiative for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 2014-2020, No 602-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2016. At its meeting held on 19 October 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Betting Treaty on the Account between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the Implementation of the Initiative for Small and Medium Enterprises under the Operational Programme. The following representatives of the Ministry of Economy took part in the Commission meeting: Mr. Luben Petrov, Deputy Minister, and Mr. Kalin Marinov, Deputy Director-General of the Directorate-General for European Competitiveness Funds. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft Law is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above-mentioned Betting Contract on Traders the account between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund, signed on 31 August 2016. It should be borne in mind that the Treaty was approved at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on 24 August 2016, as authorised to conduct the negotiations and to sign it was the Minister of Economy. The purpose of the Treaty is to ensure the payment of all the obligations and responsibilities that the Managing Authority may owe to the European Investment Fund under or in connection with the Agreement between the creditors and the Financing Agreement relating to the Operational Programme This Treaty contains 18 clauses. Among them are mentioned the obligations of the pledgeor (Republic of Bulgaria) to the Pawnee (European Investment Fund), the powers of both parties are outlined, the validity of the pledge is regulated; the costs and expenses; the conversion of the currency; the notifications; the successors; the amendments and partial invalidity; the refusal of immunity; confirmation of the authorisation and the proper signature; ratification and publication, as well as the right of jurisdiction. Under the Treaty, the Republic of Bulgaria should assist the European Investment Fund, including to sign and dispose of any additional documents. In the event of an event which would adversely affect our country has an obligation to notify the hostage creditor. The same applies to damage to the pledge or involvement of a third party. Last but not least, the ratification of the Treaty will contribute to the timely launch of the process of offering loans to businesses under the Operational Programme. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds unanimously proposed by 13 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Bill on the ratification of the Betting Treaty on Traders the account between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the Implementation of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Initiative for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises 2014-2020, No 602-02-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2016.........................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. An importer's opinion? I can't see. Debate mode. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I suppose we will ratify and do everything that is necessary, but since there is a foreigner here again, perhaps one of our fellow specialists or importers will clarify, as not all of us are aware of why there should be such a concept as a Treasure Account or, if there is to be at any cost, what it really is. So simply by asking us outside: "You know what you voted for, what is this account?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u239	Thank you, Mr. Veliv. Here you go, Mr. Petrov. You've been summoned to give an explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u240	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am sorry, but indeed in finance and financial instruments a lot of foreigners are used. And to reassure everyone, not only in the Bulgarian, but I also had meetings with Russian financial institutions, even they, although speaking in Russian, also use English terms in financial instruments. Yes, the account tellers means a kind of treasure chest such an account where funds are sitting, which are free, which are not currently used. This is rather, if we have to say it in Bulgarian, perhaps some account, a Treasury account, we should translate it. Thank you for your attention. [[Reply from the National Representative Borislav Veliev.]] Yeah, hostages, maybe, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u241	Thank you, Mr. Petrov, for your convincing clarification. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? I can't see. We're closing the debate. Voting mode. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting for a Draft Law on the ratification of the Betting Treaty on the Account between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the Implementation of the Initiative for Small and Medium Enterprises under the Operational Programme Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. It's accepted unanimously. The bill was passed in the first vote. In the absence of proposals, the second vote procedure has been made. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u242	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, since the bill for ratification of the pledge treaty was also unanimously adopted and there were no other proposals, I am also making a procedure to vote on a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u243	A reverse opinion? I can't see. We are voting on Mrs. Saveklieva's proposal for a second vote. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u244	Thank you. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Betting Treaty on the Trader account between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the Implementation of the Small and Medium Enterprises Initiative under the Operational Programme A single member. Ratification of the Bet Treaty on Traders account between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the Implementation of the Initiative for Small and Medium Enterprises under the Operational Programme In accordance with Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u245	Thank you. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. We're closing the debate. We are voting at second reading the Bill on the ratification of the Betting Treaty on the balance between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the implementation of the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Initiative under the Operational Programme They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The law was adopted unanimously and at second reading. The next item on the agenda is: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RURAL ACADEEMIA. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 13 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u246	The first report is from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I offer your attention to the first vote report, please allow the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food Assoc. Kostov and the Chairman of the Agricultural Academy Prof. Kostov Bottka Trifonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u248	Is there a reverse opinion? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the motion for admission to the Chamber. Vote 75 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guests. Mr. Christov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Academy Act, No 602-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 July 2016. The Commission on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 11 October 2016, discussing a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Academy Act, No 602-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 July 2016. In the Commission's work took part: Mr. Georgi Kostov, Deputy Minister, Nevena Nenova and Ivelina Koleva, Head of Departments at the Department of Legal Service and Public Procurement and Desislava Stoyanova, Director of the Directorate of Finance and Agriculture Academy, Mr. Totka Trifonova Chairman took part as well as the Chairman and Vice-President of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions of Agriculture of the CNSB and a number of scientists. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Kostov. The proposed changes concern the model of funding, the structure and organisation of management of the Agricultural Academy, as well as its property and its management. With regard to funding, it is proposed that the Academy, which is currently a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Minister of Agriculture and Food, should have an independent budget as part of the consolidated fiscal programme, which will be validated by the State Budget Act for the relevant year, through the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The Academy is given the opportunity to raise additional income from aid and other funds received free of charge. In addition to higher schools, the Academy will be able to conclude contracts for joint, targeted financed, educational, qualification and scientific activities and with institutes of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. As regards the organisation of management, the proposals relate to a change in the number and composition of the Management Board of the Academy. It shall include three representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and shall enable, depending on the agenda, two representatives of the relevant branch organisations to participate in meetings with the right to consult. The meetings of the Management Board shall be public. In addition, the powers of the Chair of the Agricultural Academy, the Management Board and the Executive Bureau have been significantly extended. It is intended to include three scientific secretaries and economic director in the executive bureau. As regards the structure of the Academy, it is proposed that experimental stations and experimental bases carrying out experimental production and service activities which are currently state-owned enterprises within the meaning of the Commercial Law become structural units of the scientific institutes. In addition, the Academy on a functional basis should define Research and Innovation Centres which, through scientific and coordination councils, will coordinate the activities of scientific institutes working in similar fields of agriculture. The activities of the centres will be organised by scientific secretaries. As regards the property of the Academy, it is envisaged that the management of the State Estates provided by the Council of Ministers will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the State Property Act. In order to carry out their main activities, the structures of the Agricultural Academy will be able to use land from the State Land Fund, which will be private state property and will not be able to transfer to third parties. The land will be provided by the Minister of Agriculture and Food with an order which will be subject to cancellation or amendment in the event of infringement or termination of the need. An order shall be established for the use of the property allocated to the Agricultural Academy and its independent units. Real estate and movable property will be able to be used on the basis of 10-year contracts concluded after a competition. The requirements for candidates, the procedure for conducting the contest, the conditions for the conclusion of the contracts for joint activities and the procedure for carrying out annual control over them are described. The final provisions define the distribution of experimental stations and facilities to the relevant institutes. Their activities, assets, liabilities, archives, and other rights and obligations shall be transferred to the relevant institutes. Employment relations with employees will be governed under the terms and conditions of art. 123 of the Labor Code. With regard to three experienced stations and a state enterprise at the Agricultural Academy of Agriculture, it is intended to be terminated without liquidation, with their assets, liabilities, archives and other rights and obligations transferred to the Agricultural Academy. The employment relations with the employees of the terminated enterprises will be governed under the terms and conditions of art. 328, para. 1, t. 1 of the Labour Code. The obligation to delete the registration of state-owned enterprises in the Commercial Register has been replaced by the President of the Academy. The Rules of Procedure of the Agricultural Academy should be brought into line with the law within 6 months. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary groups of PP GERB, the Patriotic Front, the BDZ-People's Union and the ABB supported the bill, noted as positive changes related to financial autonomy, restructuring, changes in governance and the possibility of developing public-private partnership. They made some specific remarks and stated readiness to submit the relevant proposals between the first and second reading of the Bill. The Reformation bloc noted that the changes are a step in the right direction, that they approve of the financial autonomy at stake, but expected significantly larger reforms to overcome the fragmentation of scientific activity and contribute to improving the Academy's activities, such as the unification of some of the Academy's institutes with higher schools and universities in the country, and also stated readiness to submit the relevant proposals between first and second readings. The BSP left Bulgaria and said that they would refrain from supporting the bill, highly appreciated the change in the model of funding, but recalled the systemic disadvantage of funding for the Academy and stressed that the restructuring would lead to an increase in staff numbers with the employees of state-owned enterprises. In addition, undertakings that should be transferred to the scientific institutes have obligations that will further have a negative impact on the Academy's budget. The trade unions' representatives supported the bill in principle. They stated that they approved the financial autonomy at stake and the lack of a fixed cost ceiling. They approved the order to settle employment relations with employees, but also recalled that the number of staff will increase with the employees of state enterprises and the budget of the Academy will have to assume the obligations they have. In this regard, they insisted on an increase in the subsidy laid down in the draft budget for 2017. In conclusion, everyone agreed that the remarks made will be carefully discussed between the first and second reading of the Bill. After the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 15 votes for the Agriculture and Foods Committee with 15 votes for the Agricultural Academy Act, No 602-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 July 2016.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u250	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Dear Mr. Deputy Minister Kostov, Dear Prof. Kostov Trifonova, under the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly as importers, you have the right and the opportunity to motivate the need for this Law. Would you like the floor? You don't want to. For a statement, Mr. Martinov? [[Reply from the National Representative Zhivko Martinov.]] Appendix to the reasons.. Welcome, speech from the National Representative Zhivko Martinov. I'm opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u251	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I want you to know the reasons for the Draft Law for amending and supplementing the Agricultural Academy Act. The current law on the Agricultural Academy has shown weaknesses that prevent the system from developing as an effective scientific structure for research, consulting and applied activities in the field of agriculture, livestock and food. The main weaknesses of the law are: 1. The budget management model, which does not provide sufficient autonomy and scientific freedom and disincentives scientists and specialists, is at the same time an obstacle to the entry of highly trained young personnel and leads to a gradual loss of capacity. 2. The closed system for formulating research topics, their development, acceptance and reporting, which leads to duplication of topics and reflects on the effectiveness of research, removes science from practice. 3. The lack of regulated participation of users of scientific and scientific products, which is the result of the non-representability of the business in the management, coordination and management bodies of the Agricultural Academy. 4. The lack of active collective coordinating bodies at the Agricultural Academy to direct and consolidate the efforts of the academic staff in similar priority fields of research and innovation for higher efficiency of Bulgarian agriculture. These weaknesses and relevant solutions are defined on the basis of the SWAT analysis of the Agricultural Academy as a system, based on a multi-criteria analysis of research institutes and state-owned enterprises, as well as the experience of the European countries, comparable to our country, for restructuring scientific structures. The bill aims to create a basis for the development of the system as an effective and affordable for the business intellectual center of Bulgarian agriculture, attractive to young scientists, to expand the activity of scientists to increase the revenue from scientific projects and to be an active partner of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in the development of agricultural and food policies. The Agricultural Academy is the only specialized scientific structure in the country for research, consulting and applied activities in agriculture, livestock and food related to the implementation of the strategic goal of food security, improving the quality of life of the population and preserving national resources. The proposed Bill aims to introduce budgetary parameters stimulating the SAA's activities, ensuring compliance of budgetary relations with the consolidated fiscal programme of the State. The introduction of the principle of autonomy in the area of funding of the Academy will increase its scientific freedom, restore democratic and academic beginnings, lead to a level playing field for the SAA in this respect with other scientific organisations. The desired financial change in the management of money is the basis for achieving the objectives of the Academy, for better motivation and real opportunity to increase revenue, for a significant increase in the capacity to work on all programmes related to European and national funding and as a result of higher efficiency. Optimization and stabilisation of research activities of the SAA institutes are expected to create a qualitative scientific product and implement complete projects in the public interest. In addition, legislative changes are being made for the functional separation of the financial and scientific management of the academy and the transfer of close professionals, which will provide the basis for more efficient management of money. The change in terms of experienced stations is a step towards reducing the structural and regional backwardness of some of the country's regions by restoring the activities of complex experimental stations such as demonstration and educational structures of the scientific institutes. With regard to the financial justification for the transition of the experienced stations to state-owned enterprises, as they are under the Commercial Law, do not influence the budget plan of the Ministry of Finance. In this context, a proposal is made for a change in the composition of the Board of Governors of the SAA with representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and Business. A change shall be made to the composition of the Executive Bureau of the SAA by introducing the office of economic director. The Economic Director shall assist the Chairperson of the SAA with regard to the management of financial and economic activities, ensure the proper implementation of the budget and the lawful management of the assets of the SAA, assist the Management Board in taking management decisions. In order to build a favourable environment for enhanced partnership and better cooperation between the scientific structures of the Agricultural Academy, for the establishment of an effective system for scientific and scientific applied research, for the accelerated transfer of knowledge in practice and commercialisation of scientific products, it is proposed to set up research and innovation centres on a functional basis. Research and Innovation Centers coordinate the activities of the scientific institutes with research in similar priority fields of agriculture for the implementation of the policies of the Agricultural Academy; carry out joint research, training, consulting and service activities to achieve the strategic objectives of the Agricultural Academy; use the jointly established scientific infrastructure, contribute to the realization of the created scientific products and intellectual property rights. The democratic traditions of management of scientific and applied activities in the centres and SAA as a system are guaranteed by the formation of collective management bodies with scientific and coordination councils with business representation, branch organizations and for the first time with guaranteed participation of young scientists. The Scientific Council of the Centers shall be a body for scientific guidance and for effective coordination of research activities in the relevant priority area of agriculture................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Coordination Council is an assistive collective body to implement the SAA's overall policy for the effective realization of scientific products and intellectual property and for sustainable and effective management of property and assets. It shall develop programmes for applied, service and ancillary activities, a mechanism for introducing the project cost and revenue allocation, a mechanism for stimulating young scientists and for efficient and targeted use of activity funds, rules for the construction, possession and joint use of scientific infrastructure and material and technical base, rules for internal mobility of scientists, etc. The relationship with the business and users of the scientific products is achieved through the participation of representatives of branch organizations in the Management Board of the SAA, as well as in the coordination councils of the research and innovation centres. There is a special order for interaction with the business in the implementation of scientific and applied projects. The relations of the Agricultural Academy with the Ministry of Agriculture and Food will be more complete and useful for business and in forming and supporting the Ministry's policies. The bill provides for state-owned enterprises which are state-owned enterprises under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, to become the structural units of the institutes. Other structural changes are envisaged to optimize the structure of the Agricultural Academy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u252	Thank you, Mr. Martinov. Is there anyone who would like to say a line to the speaker? I won't. Please come in for a procedure, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u253	Dear Mr. Chairman, I suggest that we extend the working time to voting on the Agricultural Academy Bill. We've got a few speeches, I think we're gonna take part in the 5th 10 minutes after 2:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u254	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Mrs Karayancheva to extend the working time until the vote on this item on the agenda. Vote 69 MPs: 64, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. There's a word for it. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u255	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! If they hadn't read the motives that long, maybe we'd have gone through time. However, they were presented anyway, and I would like to focus your attention on three main elements that are offered as changes in the Law. The Law itself worked about a year and a half with different shades and directions of change of the structure of the Agricultural Academy, starting from liquidation and transfer of institutes to higher education schools, to respectively disbanding many of the units of the Agricultural Academy. However, we now have a draft Law, which somehow meets the needs of the Academy in terms of what is expected to change in the Law and the mechanisms proposed to be adequate enough to guarantee the work of the scientific units in the system of the Agricultural Academy. Three are, in my opinion, the main directions of the change in the Law. The first change is related to the possibility and already the need for the Agricultural Academy to have an autonomous budget. It's the desire of the system not for a year. With the amendments to the Law, this justice is restored because all those who are in the system of higher education, including BAS, have an autonomous budget and this enables them to show sufficient flexibility and initiative so that they can provide funding for the scientific projects not only through the transfer of subsidies, but at the same time from their activities - experimental, scientific and so on. That's the first change. The second change is related to a change in the structure of the Academy, a transition of state enterprises to the institutes. This is a controversial change to me, but in any case, it is the view of the Ministry that it would be better to manage experimental activity in this way. And the third change, which represents two thirds of the Law, is the public-private partnership On these three issues, our opinion is that, despite the good decisions and wishes, there are still many issues which are not specified in the Bill, which create problems and will most likely create such problems in the functioning and implementation of the Bill itself. Firstly, with regard to the autonomous budget. The concerns here and in the Commission's report were pointed out. According to the economic justification accepted by the Ministry of Finance, it is said that 13 million is the transfer or budget subsidy. She's like that for the next three years. But we have problems, and these problems are: First, that 500 people are going to the Agricultural Academy, which means that the support for the Fund is at least increasing. Secondly, the Academy still has no idea what the obligations of state-owned enterprises are. If these obligations are transferred to the new budget, the Academy will be placed next year in an inability to perform any functions due to the lack of precisely such transfers to ensure stability. Therefore, if the adoption of this part of the Law is a positive direction, but, on the other hand, we create prerequisites for the budgetary transfer to be minimal, we practically move on to the second change, i.e. the public-private partnership. It is settled in a way that many intersects from other laws that have been adopted in the National Assembly and implements this mechanism of action. That is, if there is not enough money, we will offer such a public-private partnership, from which part of the expenditure to be borne by the Academy will be transferred to those contracts to be concluded. There are an awful lot of questions here that aren't solved, including the concept apparatus. For example, the concept of activity, we are transferring activity. What does activity mean? It can be the creation of a new variety, it can be the maintenance of a new variety, it can be the production and marketing of a very broad concept. But the scientific product itself is the variety that creates or breeds an animal, that is, the scientific product and for it you should have a public-private partnership, not for the marketing of seeds that are owned by the Agricultural Academy. That is my view, because public-private partnership means that business must create scientific products together with the units of the Agricultural Academy. Where are they going besides those who are employed with their respective directions? Imagine a base being transferred to this order as a public-private partnership. Where do the people who work there go? I guess they're staying at the Agricultural Academy. So this issue for us is solved very schematically and does not create prerequisites for such rules to guarantee really better scientific activity, and this scientific activity is not necessary. It is necessary for Bulgarian agriculture because, as is well known, we agrarian science cannot import and we need to develop ours in order to have opportunities from now on to work towards strengthening the link between science and business. The third group of questions has some strange solutions for me. What is offered is a return to the function department of the bases in the late 1990s, which turned out to be a failure. That is, the experimental bases were at the institutes, there were a lot of problems and contradictions, in a few years some of these bases were led to bankruptcy by the institutions themselves, not by any other guides outside the Agricultural Academy. It is now proposed that these state-owned enterprises, which were in some form able to implement their business lines, were able to stabilise themselves only two or three, are unable to continue and are offered their liquidation, but it is not because they did not want to operate accordingly, but because they did not want to work in these structures. The average salary at the Agricultural Academy is BGN 586. It is lower than the teacher's than in any other sphere. And therefore young people have neither the desire to realize their intentions to develop in the field of science, nor to continue their activities as habilitated persons. Here are given strange transfers of bases to institutes that have nothing to do with the activities of these institutions, neither territorial nor functional principle there is a transfer that for us creates more questions than can be the solutions that are presented. One important detail of the Law includes only a few institutes as institutes, the rest disappear, which means that these institutes would possibly be in the Rules of Procedure. Either all institutes should be in the Law, or everyone should be in the Rules of Procedure, because the other one, in our view, creates a prerequisite for really some of the institutes through the Rules of Procedure simply to cease to exist. Our decision was to abstain under the Law, although I personally had a great desire to support this Law because changes were needed. Between first and second readings, we will make proposals that I would like to discuss in a way in which the scientific community will also express its opinion in order to obtain a working law. For me personally, these 2,300 people who work at the Academy are heroes and with the Law we must create a prerequisite for them to really work well, because it is good for everyone to have Bulgarian agriculture, which is competitive and Bulgarian agricultural science that supports it and I hope indeed, colleagues, between first and second reading the proposals that are proposed to be implemented in the Law in a way that will create better rules for the functioning of the Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u256	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? I won't. The word has the MP from the ABC Parliamentary Group Prof. Ivan Stankov. Mr. Stankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u257	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is not a great advantage to make speeches at the end of the working day, at the end of the plenary session on such an extremely important bill, as is the one for the Agricultural Academy. And that is why I will be as brief as possible, I will not repeat what some of my fellow Members have said, as much of the comments made, of the positive assessments I accept and agree with. I would just like to say that the ABB Parliamentary Group will support, albeit with quite a few reservations, the proposed bill. We will support it because this Law is very necessary and because the Agricultural Academy cannot and should not work and continues to exist in the current way. In this bill there are some positive things that have been said, I will only fix them. Firstly, on financing, I believe that this autonomy, which is already being given and this failure to return to the budget, and placing with its own resources, is a great advantage. And the way of funding will really be a great plus for the Agricultural Academy. Secondly, for me it is extremely important, I did not hear to comment on this "creating scientific centres and scientific councils." I have been many times a reviewer of representatives from different institutes because I was one of the few habilitated lecturers and I have to tell you that what was done in the small institutes was wrong, it was vicious, it was related. I believe that with the creation of these centres and with these advices, the quality of scientific developments will in any case be increased, subject to much more detailed and detailed discussion of all proposals that are being made for rationalizations, projects and so on, which is an advantage. Another advantage is the way in which the Board of Directors is built to include representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, but also representatives of the business. Professor Bachvarova is talking about the new moment, which I also support is the public-private partnership. That's a serious advantage. There are some other advantages that I'm not going to dwell on. However, I will say some shortcomings, some critical remarks and our reservations. I agree with what Professor said. Bachvarova: There is a great danger of increasing the numerical composition and becoming something very clumsy. Look: there is a Management Board, there is an Executive Bureau, there is an Advisory Council, scientific councils, institutes and so on, so that the risk that the Agricultural Academy will become a clumsy organization is very big. I think there may be contradictions in dividing the scientific part from the financial part. You know that the Rectors' Council has reacted very strongly to this because it can happen that the directors are interfering with each other. That's why I have a lot of reservations, too. For me, the big problem posed by colleagues on the ground is that the Agricultural Academy is not proposed to have a general meeting. We are a parliamentary republic and you see that everything is starting from parliament, from the highest management body. All of this is repeated further down into the structures. You know, at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, universities, even NGOs have a general meeting. The President or the Executive Director shall always be elected by secret ballot. Here is again offered the old formula of the appointment of the President. There is no general meeting, there is no senior body to account for the elected President and the scientific secretaries. I think that's a negative, a big downside. If we miss it now, soon we have to make an adjustment and do so as it is everywhere to have a general meeting, a governing body, to report everything to the General Assembly, to hold a secret vote, to choose to take place with proposals and platforms of the Presidents. The President should not be politically dependent, because today some are ruling, tomorrow they will be others. Political dependence, in my opinion, is unacceptable. There are other notes that have been said, but I don't want to dwell on them. I will say again: we will support the Bill, but we will make our proposals between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u258	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement he has signed up and has the word of the people representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, how long is the time of the group?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u260	You have the floor, don't worry, 12 minutes without the extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u261	Don't worry, I won't spend all the time, but I would like to invite you to proceed with the vote because the positive and negative points of the bill have been said. Anyone who has spoken them between first and second readings will make their proposals, and then text by text we will proceed to a debate. Please proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u262	I am not voting on this proposal of yours because you have stated a statement and not a procedure. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Are there any lines to the current speaker? I won't. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Agricultural Academy Act, No 602-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 July 2016. 90 MPs voted: 79, against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. [[People's representatives rise up and start coming out of the room.]] Please stay where you are. Procedure supplied by the public representative Rumen Hristov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u263	Honourable President, I request that the time limit for submitting proposals between the first and second votes be extended to the maximum.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-10-20.u264	I put to the vote the proposal of the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Food Mr. Rumen Hristov to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings of three weeks. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. Communications on Parliamentary Control on Friday 21 October 2016: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Ms. Meglena Kuneva will answer one question from the MP Rumen Hristov. 2. The Minister of Culture Vezdi Rashidov will answer three questions from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreyev, and Velizar Enchev, two questions, and one question from the MPs Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov, Willi Lilkov, Metodi Andreev, Grozdan Karadzhov and Ivan Kirilov Ivanov. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer six questions from the MPs Yavor Haytov, Dimitar Shishkov, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Gunay Husmen, Atanas Merdjanov and Kristian Vigenin; and Miglena Alexandrova, and one question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski. 4. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer 17 questions from the representatives of the National Assembly Manol Genov; Svetla Bachvarova "four questions, Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev "two questions, Villas Lilkov, Boyka Marinska, Georgi Kadiev, Dimitar Delchev, Ivan Stankov "two questions, Svetla Bachvarova, Kircho Karagyozov and Dobrin Danev, Hussein Hafuzov, and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov "two questions, and one question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. 5. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer four questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov, Yavor Haytov, Iskren Veselinov and Mihail Mikov. 6. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer seven questions from the MPs Nikola Hadzhiyski, Velizar Enchev, Willi Lilkov, Willi Lilkov and Petar Slavov, two questions, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, two questions, and one question from the MP Rumen Gechev. 7. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova will answer three questions from the MPs Ivan Ibrishimov two questions, and Dimitar Bajraktarov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova to three questions from the MPs Yavor Haytov; and Radan Kanev and Atanas Atanasov - two questions; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova - a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev; and to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Petar Slavov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the MP Petar Kadiev to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova; - a question from the MPs Petar Kadiev and Svetoslav Belemezov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova; - two questions from the National Representative Dora Yankova to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva; - a question from the MPs Petar Kadiev and Ivan Stankov to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski and the Minister of Health Petar Moskov. Due to previous commitments at the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova and Justice Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate. Due to participation in an international meeting of parliamentary control, the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will not participate. The next regular plenary session on Friday, 21 October 2016 at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
