ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u1	Good morning, fellow Members of the National Assembly! Please take your seats! Registration mode. Please abort registration. There's no quorum. Next attempt at 9:30 p.m. Discovered at 9:30.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u2	Request registration mode. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, I propose to you on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to include as item eight on the agenda Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Management of Floor Property. Under No 502-01-56 was submitted to the Ministry of Economy by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2015 and was adopted at the first vote by us on 6 November 2015. Please vote. They voted 129 MPs: 108, against 4, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Allow me to make a few announcements. The first one is yesterday, 16 March 2016, received and distributed to the MPs A general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Election Code adopted on the first vote on 10 March 2016. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. On 16 March 2016 the National Assembly received a Report on the implementation of the Programme Budget of the State Agency "National Security" for 2015. The Report was submitted to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Commission for Control of Security Services, Implementation and Use of Special Intelligence Funds and Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute about the main results of the labour force monitoring in 2015. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We move on to the point set for today's consideration: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ADMINISTRATIVEITY. The representatives are Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs on 16 January 2015, as well as Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs on 21 January 2016. With the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, we will be briefed by its President, the People's Representative Danail Kirilov. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u3	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, No 554-01-8, submitted by Boyka Grozeva Marinska and a group of MPs on 16 January 2015. At its meeting held on 11 March 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, No 554-01-8, submitted by Boyka Grozeva Marinska and a group of MPs on 16 January 2015. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs Boyka Marinska. The draft aims to introduce a requirement for the possession of higher education, an education-qualification degree for certain executive bodies, which are appointed by a decision of the Council of Ministers or by the Prime Minister. The discussion was attended by the MPs Philip Popov, Daniel Kirilov, Svilen Ivanov, Emil Dimitrov, Yavor Notev and Dimitar Delchev. Mr. Popov drew attention to the differences between the acquired qualification or rank acquired abroad, compared to the requirements for obtaining a Master's degree in Bulgaria and raised the question of the order for their alignment. In response Mr. Kirilov explained that the procedure for recognition of educational degrees is regulated. Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Dimitrov and Mr. Delchev expressed their support for the proposed Draft with a view to the need to appoint so-called senior state officials to those who have higher education. Mr. Notev raised the issue of the Law on the legal status of the employees who occupy the relevant positions without having an educational qualification degree at present. Ms Marinska replied that between the first and second votes, the creation of a transitional provision will be proposed, according to which the new requirements will apply only to newly appointed persons. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15............................................................................................ Mr. President, honourable Members, I would like to present to you: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, No 654-01-7, submitted by Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev and a group of MPs on 21 January 2016. At its meeting held on 16 March 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, No 654-01-7, submitted by Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev and a group of MPs on 21 January 2016. The proposed amendment aims to improve the legal framework and the changes are justified by the need to conclude fixed-term contracts with which to appoint persons in the hypothesis of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 of the Labour Code in the administration of the executive, for activities under projects and programmes financed by the European Structural and Investment Funds. These employment relations will be concluded within the framework of available funding under projects and programmes. The appointment of employees is envisaged to be outside the number of staff provided for in the spatial acts of the relevant administrations. The main motive for the proposal is the lack of administrative capacity for the simultaneous implementation of the basic obligations and additional activities under the operational programmes. The scope of the change proposed by the Bill provides that the appointment of employees is to be carried out through competition based on professional qualities, in order laid down in the internal rules of the administrative structure. The duration of the employment relationship provided for in the provision of the Labour Code shall fully correspond to the temporary and specific needs resulting from the management and implementation of projects under the operational programmes. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 3 votes for the administration, 1 vote against the administration, and 5 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly not to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, No 654-01-7, submitted by Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev and a group of MPs on 21 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u4	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. A report has also been presented by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration submitted by Mr. Tanchev and a group of MPs. Mr. Ademov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, No 654-01-7, submitted by Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev and a group of MPs on 21 January 2016. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at its regular meeting held on 17 February 2016 examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, No 654-01-7, submitted by Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev and a group of MPs on 21 January 2016. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Kalina Petkova Director of the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Working Conditions and Mrs. Petya Malakova Head of Department at the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Conditions at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The bill was presented by the MP Svetlin Tanchev. The proposal aims to create a new legal opportunity to appoint employees of fixed-term contracts within the meaning of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 of the Labour Code for the Management and Implementation of Projects and Programmes financed by the ESI Funds in the Executive Administration outside the number of staff provided for in the spatial acts of the relevant administrations. The appointment of such staff is envisaged to be carried out through competition based on professional qualities, in order laid down in the internal rules of the administrative structure. Staff salaries will be financed entirely by the technical assistance of the programme or project concerned. All structures of the central administration of the executive power as well as regional administrations are included in the scope of the amendment proposed by the Law. The main motive is the lack of capacity of administrations for the simultaneous implementation of basic duties and additional project and programme activities, as well as the consideration that, in the different phases of the design or programming cycle, there is a need to attract different by qualification and number of specialists. At present, the employees appointed to the position of European project manager and programme manager are included within the agreed total number of staff of the administration concerned, which, according to the importers, creates difficulties in the implementation of projects and programmes. With the introduction of a change in the Law on Administration, a flexible approach will be provided to ensure the necessary administrative capacity in the managing authorities of operational programmes and project beneficiaries. Through fixed-term employment contracts, administrations will be given the opportunity to provide the necessary additional human resources depending on temporary and specific needs, while also ensuring the responsibility inherent in the employment relationship. This will not lead to an increase in the number of administration and to an additional burden on the state budget. The Ministry of Finance does not support the Bill on the ground that the proposed changes contradict government objectives for complex administrative reform and the common framework for optimizing administrative units and reducing administrative burden. For the financing of the remuneration of these staff until verification and certification of expenditure, it is necessary to engage a free budgetary resource and there is a risk of pressure for additional budgetary resources. The Ministry of Finance considers that, in order to provide additional capacity in the administrations designated for the management of EU funds, adjustments to their rules of procedure should be made. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy supports the bill, considering that ensuring the possibility of concluding fixed-term contracts will respond to the temporary nature of the functions of the job and employees will be outside the restriction of § 16, para. 1 of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, according to which the number of administration, outside what is established in the Constitutional acts, cannot be increased. During the discussion, the members of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee agreed that the adoption of the proposed change would introduce a clearer order and transparency in the recruitment of employees to manage or implement programmes or projects financed by EU funds. After the end of the discussion and voting with results:......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, No 654-01-7, submitted by Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev and a group of MPs on 21 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u6	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Colleagues, on behalf of the importer, would anyone like to motivate the amendments to the laws tabled? Here you are, Mrs. Marinska. You have up to 10 minutes to motivate your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u7	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed Draft Law on Changes to the Law on Administration aims to establish a requirement for possession of higher education, a Master's degree for persons holding certain higher state posts. With the adoption of the proposed change, such a requirement will be introduced to take over the posts of regional governors, deputy governors, deputy ministers, chairmen of state agencies, state committees, executive directors of executive agencies, heads of state institutions established by law or by a decree of the Council of Ministers, which have functions in connection with the implementation of the executive power. Outside its scope will remain only the elected state posts of the Prime Minister, deputy prime ministers, ministers, mayors of municipalities, municipal mayors and mayors. In the Constitution and in art. 19 of the Administration Act refers to the authorities of the executive power. They can be divided into two categories with a view to their constitution: elected Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers, Mayors of Municipalities, Regional City Halls; and appointed Deputy Ministers, Regional Governors, Deputy District Managers, Presidents of State Agencies and State Committees, Executive Directors of Executive Agencies, Heads of State Institutions, established by law or decree of the Council of Ministers, who have functions in connection with the implementation of the executive power. While the first group is elected either directly by the people, or by decision of an authority in the system of another authority, the National Assembly, with regard to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, the other category is appointed by decision of the Council of Ministers or by the Prime Minister personally. It is with regard to the second group that the proposed change is intended to take effect. It is logical that holding a high state post is conditioned by increased expectations of the competence of the person concerned by society. Given the repeated scandals and issues raised in the public domain regarding personnel appointments with questionable reputation and educational value through the media, the introduction of such a requirement will play the role of a sort of filter that will presect applications and eliminate the possibility of proposals behind which there is apparent lobbying, political compromise and lack of professional qualities. The proposal introduces some logic and fairness in the status of senior executives in the administration, given the existence of a requirement for higher education by those holding positions in the administration provided for by the Classifier of posts in the administration. It is illogical and unwarranted for employees in an institution to have a higher education requirement, a Bachelor's degree or a Master's degree and the head of the institution to have a secondary or lower education. Because the current text in the Law on Administration allows those positions within the scope of our proposal to be appointed people with secondary education, and even with primary education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u8	Thank you, dear Mrs. Marinska. The next bill is for you, Mr. Tanchev, to present the bill on behalf of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I believe that I do not need to get into the subject of how important the European and structural funds are for the Bulgarian economy. Administration and not only administration, local authorities say the most important problem and important cause of low absorption are the lack of administrative capacity. Fortunately, in the years since the pre-accession funds so far, we have managed to accumulate enough capacity, but the very management of these projects and programmes requires a more flexible approach in the administrative capacity that supports them. With the change we propose, we do not aim to increase our country's administration, nor to create hollow directorates or anything like that. The aim is that, when there is a specific task, they often arise on specific occasions, spontaneously, ad hoc and so on, the public administration can have a more flexible approach to ensuring the necessary administrative capacity in the managing authorities and beneficiaries, which will guarantee the resources to ensure effective implementation of projects and programmes. With this, we will not increase the number of public administration. With a minimal change of the Law on Administration, it is possible to use the legal figure existing in the Labour Code of a fixed contract with persons employed in office, which is included in the classification of posts in the administration. For the position there is a comprehensive regulation and the need to create regulation that would repeat or contradict the existing legal order is avoided. I believe that it is necessary to clearly sign in the Law this opportunity to provide both the municipalities and the government and the ministries with the necessary administrative capacity for the rapid absorption of the funds. I want to reassure you that this will in no way affect the national budget. I know that we are all committed to reducing the costs of the central budget of the European Parliament, the salaries and remuneration of these staff will be fully provided by technical assistance to the relevant operational programmes. That's in a few words the proposal. I am begging you to support it, because I think it is pragmatic and will help make the funds more effective. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u10	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening up the debates, and I would like to remind you that we are debating in parallel the two draft laws. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Mr. Gokov, you have a wish to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Both laws can be supported.. are well motivated and pursue good intentions. One aims to establish requirements for the possession of higher education for persons holding certain higher state positions and the other.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 68 of the Labour Code, such as these employment contracts to be concluded within the framework of project financing, programmes and to be outside the established number of administration. Under the Law of the National Representative Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. It is a good thing, even though it is imperative that people who occupy positions of regional governors, deputy governors, deputy ministers, presidents of state agencies, state committees, executive directors of executive agencies, in general the heads of all state institutions who have functions in connection with the implementation of executive powers, have a higher education and a minimum Master's degree, at least in order to have equal or higher education than their subordinates below the hierarchy, for a large part of which the administration requires a Master's degree in higher education, is provided for in the classification of positions in administration. It is good even for the electoral posts of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers, mayors of municipalities, regional mayors and mayors not to stay outside the scope of this requirement, but this is another topic, another debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u12	And it's between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u13	Yeah, you could say that. It's a different debate. In the devaluation of education, however, whether higher education is a guarantee of competence is a completely different and controversial issue. Whether the introduction of this requirement will stop personnel appointments with a dubious reputation and a dubious educational center, and whether it will be able to play the role of a filter that will pre-size applications and eliminate the possibility of proposals behind which lobbyism, political compromise and lack of professional arguments in the nomination of these people is another and controversial issue. I don't want to go in the direction and share my fear that this will increase the number of people who will buy their higher education diplomas. Nevertheless, I am inclined to support this proposal and will support it. Under the Law of the National Representative Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs. I ask myself: what currently prevents employment contracts from being concluded outside the state with persons working on programs, including under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 of the Labour Code and these employment contracts to be concluded within the framework of available funding under projects and programmes, and to be outside the established number of administrations? In my opinion, there are no legislative problems and obstacles to this happening. As far as I know, without saying that I know in detail the practice of all administrations and in the past with the launch of projects and programmes funded by European funds since 2007, there have been contracts with people working on programmes and projects with European, and even with national funding, without being in the main state of the relevant administration and without entering any conflict with the rules of these administrations. Even the importers stress this and recognize it in the motives of the Bill. There is also Decree No 66 of the Council of Ministers of 28 March 1996 for the personnel provision of certain activities in the budgetary organizations, where in art. 1 says: The budget organisations may employ persons under a contract of employment to carry out the work required for the organisation concerned outside the established number of staff. Here is another opportunity for you, and this will no longer be about a fixed contract, and there will be no restriction on the Labour Code for this term contract to be no longer than three years. It will be possible for persons to be appointed for a longer period or to switch from project to project as long as funding for their salaries is provided. Moreover, I find it strange that the minister of finance has set itself to reduce the administration and the individual departments were afraid that by going in this direction, they would have budget losses. I do not know, if the Minister of Finance decides to reduce budget support for the administration concerned, how will the proposed texts be stopped from doing so? The development of administrative capacity is necessary We need a creative, responsible administration oriented towards solving people's problems, we need an increase in the productivity of this administration, we need even more efficient use of the limited budget resources for quality provision of public services, so it is good to use extra budget resources. The environment in which the state administration operates makes it extremely difficult, especially in recent years, because of the deterioration of our country's financial and economic situation, because of poverty and growing public discontent, which makes it more public control over the administration's activities and improving the effectiveness of its actions. However, both Bills do not contribute in any way to improving the work of this administration, improving its effectiveness, transparency and any further improvements to this state administration. With the repairs or without them, the situation is not improved by a millimeter of this you can be sure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u14	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? First line, Mrs. Marinska. Mr. Tanchev, second line. There's no third line so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u15	Dear Mr. Gokov, thank you for the request to support the Bill of Changes in Administration. In connection with your proposal to possibly discuss between first and second readings, in this scope to also enter Prime Ministers, Ministers, I reply immediately that the initial statement of my personal opinion was indeed such, but subsequently, after consulting the lawyers, it has been established that if these positions are put into the scope of the proposal, we enter into a sharp conflict and conflict with the Constitution and you understand why. Mr. Andreev, to take advantage of my remark, asked me a question here in the Chamber, before your speech, which also refers to these cases of purchased diplomas, it also concerns the matter of diplomas received and received from unlicensed universities, such as here and abroad. And to him, and to you, I'm answering that on the first case you've referred to, this is a criminal act, and on a criminal basis, we need to solve this problem. On the other hand, the acquired diplomas abroad, all such diplomas bought abroad and based on which a certain position is held, must be legalized at the Ministry of Education. There is such a order, there is such a procedure and if she finds that the diploma is illegal, the diploma cannot take the appropriate position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Marinska. Mr. Tanchev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, I agree with the arguments that you have put forward to some extent, because there is indeed an opportunity to take advantage now and to appoint temporary employees, but these are mendings. The place for the clear signature of these legal norms is in the Law on Administration, what we are currently looking at. On the other hand, as President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, I like to listen not only to the beneficiaries, but also to the people involved in managing these projects. This has come to me from these people, from these governing bodies as a problem that the National Assembly should deal with, and that is why I have made this proposal, and I believe that with it we would help the governing authorities and local authorities to better manage these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u18	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. Anyone want a third line? No. A hole, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u19	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Ms. Marinska, yes, I am aware that we are going to have a conflict with the Constitution and so on, if we are talking about putting in the other positions that you mentioned. I am aware of this, and I have therefore told you that this is a completely different separate debate and that society must resolve it in some way, but not now and not through the Administration Act at all. Bought diplomas have been an ugly phenomenon since the last 20 years. I do not believe that it can be eradicated so easily because our society seems to somehow reconcile with these actions of people. Of course a criminal act must be condemned, but despite serious treatment, it still exists. It is normal for you, as importers, both you and Mr. Tanchev, to protect your projects, and I have to tell you that I have nothing against them. All I'm saying is that the approach to administration should be different, not to hear about any problem, and we should be in a hurry to patch it up with some kind of legislative initiative. We need a comprehensive approach to this state administration because it clearly does not work effectively if it irritates society. Of course, that is why to irritate the public at the moment have a great contribution both the media and the politicians' speeches, and so on, but it is a fact that the public administration does not work effectively and with such proposals we will hardly make it work more effectively, more transparently and anything you say in this direction will be true. Again, I'm not against the two bills, but I see you're trying to close down some gaps or solve any such temporary problems. This is not the decision for the public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. For speech there is the popular representative Dimitar Bajraktarov. Before that, honourable Members, I would like to ask you to applaud our guests on the balcony. They are students of law and business administration at New Bulgarian University. [[Applause.]] Mr. Bayraktarov, you have a responsibility to them to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll remember the teaching days that were a long time ago. I don't know how pleasant it was for the students to hear about the purchase of diplomas for higher education instead of hearing something about it. What I would like to stress today in my speech is, firstly, that the Patriot Front Group is willing to support both laws. Here we need to make some distinctions from the point of view of the submitted bill by colleague Boyka Marinska, who already appears as an imperative norm and is well in terms of the future of the current young people on the balcony, at least they will know why they are pushing themselves, why their parents spend money to obtain a higher education, a Master's degree, that is to say, their work will somehow be made legal. This is not about simplifying the debate, buying or unbought diplomas, there will always be, it is more interesting who sells them and why sells them, provided that most people do not use them in the interest of the truth, because they know nothing. The point of the Law of the colleague Marinska and of the colleagues who are co-operating is that it is high time for the higher administration and the people who are also responsible for the Constitution, such as the district rulers, in the first place, according to the legality of art. 143 of the Constitution is really to have a higher education degree and to be no less than a Master's degree because these people have a huge responsibility to their weight, and this responsibility can only be borne conscientiously and correctly when it is paid for both with the relevant knowledge and with the corresponding degree of higher education. As for the bill of colleague Svetlin Tanchev and the amendments to the Transitional and Final Provisions of § 16 of the Administration Act, in fact, I have supported them in the Labour Commission, we will support them now. They do not have their binding character, it is simply given the opportunity, which, by the way, has already existed, but what I want to explain to you, colleagues, is why we support this bill, because it is aimed at young people and the employment of young people, who, with funding from European projects, European programmes, are able to acquire this experience, which is necessary both for the state and for them. Perhaps some of you will now be surprised, but I will give you some information that at the moment, on an official report of over 60 thousand people, pensioners, practically continue to work at this time, that is, these 60,000 jobs instead of being occupied by young people who see on the balcony upstairs, they are occupied by people who have completed their work route long ago, but continue it in a number of other circumstances. The exact number for 2014 is 58,000 working pensioners. Another informal report shows that a large number of these pensioners are employed in civil contracts, precisely in the implementation of European projects. Many of them do not know any languages, nor do they have any qualifications, but simply because they are ours and you have to collect some money. Because a so-called governing body is formed, and it must have been created by our people, and then we have come to these situations to stop European funds under the European programmes, to see what zulus have been done over the years. This is the main reason why we will support this bill. Perhaps we will consider turning it into an imperative norm, that is to be obliged to appoint these people in administrations compulsory under the Labour Code, and not to resort to civil law by concluding civil treaties that have a very, very different meaning and do not have the meaning of a labour law. I would appeal to all of you, colleagues, to support both bills, makes sense in them. It is good to listen, because by not listening last week, you will now have to re-vote the Black Sea Device Act in the Camping section. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Then it wasn't a coincidence that I reminded you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u22	Please, get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u23	Yes, I'm done, Mr. Chairman. I know exactly what I'm talking about, and that's what I'm talking about. So listen to those who know. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u24	Please, on the subject of this Bill. Any lines to the statement? Nobody makes a wish for a line. Another statement? Mr. Metodi Andreev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! What the colleague Boyka Marinska offers is very good, because in recent years we have seen an invasion of insects in different types of state administration levels, it wasn't Kalinka, it wasn't other types of insects. The requirement for education is very important, it increases the authority of the respective high state post. However, there is one point that is very difficult to investigate... the question of the authenticity of the relevant diplomas. Ms. Marinska said in her statement that those who were taken abroad have a procedure here to be legalized. The problem is: what do we do with the diplomas that many Bulgarian politicians and businessmen bought from Bulgarian higher education institutions? This question is criminal and it is not normal that every time a person is referred to as a senior state post, he should start checking whether his diploma has been purchased or whether he actually earned it with his studies. That's why I'm hesitating right now, but I think I'd rather do it between first and second readings. By the way, as Mr. Bayraktarov said, those who have their own diplomas at least have a minimum internship in what they studied. Because it's not normal to study for five years and then not have a year's internship in what you've studied. I mean, you got a degree, you framed it, and you never touched the matter that this diploma proves to you. So perhaps between first and second readings I will be tempted to introduce an amendment and an addition that requires, apart from the Master, as an educational level, but to have at least three years in the specialty declared with this diploma. Because when a person stands in a high government position, it must have proved itself in life. How is one person going to prove himself in the life of a diploma that he declares if he doesn't have at least three years at some firm or at some other state office? Because people who have fake diplomas, they use them for nothing but to frame them and show them when they have to prove their education. In this regard Mr. Bajraktarov is absolutely right that these diplomas are not used for their intended purpose. Perhaps between first and second reading I will make such an amendment and an addition to this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u26	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? There aren't any. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Honourable Members, we are going into voting mode. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to move to the Chamber and take their seats, two proposals are to be voted on. First, we are voting on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, No 554-01-8, submitted by Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs on 16 January 2015. I recall that the Law was supported by the Legal Commission. They voted 122 MPs: 112, none, abstention 10. The proposal at first reading is accepted. Dear colleagues, we are going to vote on the second Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration, No 654-01-7, submitted by Svetlin Tanchev and a group of MPs on 21 January 2016. I recall that the bill is not supported by the Legal Commission and is supported by the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. The bill is generally supported. They voted 120 MPs: 80, none against, 40 abstentions. The proposal is adopted by which both current bills amending and supplementing the Law on Administration at first reading. Honourable Members, we are going to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR INSTALLATION AND CONVERSATION OF THE DIVERSHIP. Importers are Petar Petrov and a group of MPs, submitted on January 23, 2015, a second draft Law................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2015 and the 3rd Draft Law supposed by the Council of Ministers, 7 January 2016 We have a report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. The report will be presented to us by the President of the Commission Mr. Rumen Hristov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I proceed to the presentation of the reports on the bills, please put to the vote a procedural proposal for admission to the plenary of Assoc. Dr. Georgi Kostov, Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food, and Eng. Tony Krastev. Executive Director of the Forest Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u28	A counteroffer? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting for hall access. Vote 96 MPs: 89, against 3, abstention 4. The proposal has been accepted........................................................................................................ Mr. Hristov, you will most likely present the two reports consistently for the three bills. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 554-01-11, submitted by Boris Yachev, Petar Petrov and a group of MPs on 23 January 2015 The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 11 March 2015, discussing a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 554-01-11, submitted by the MPs Petar Petrov, Boris Yachev and a group of MPs on 23 January 2015. In the work of the committee took part from the Executive Agency of Forests: Toni Krastev Executive Director, Julian Rusev Head of Department of the Department of Forest Conservation and Hunting and Daniela Angelova General Legal Consultant in the Directorate of Legal-Administrative Activities and Human Resources. Representatives of NGOs were also present. The bill was presented by the MP Sultanka Petrova. The Bill proposes to extend the hunting time of waterbirds by one month. According to importers, the change is necessary in relation to the difference in the time limits laid down in identical laws in neighbouring countries and due to the damage that wild ducks cause to farmers' crops during the period of ban on shooting. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food does not support the Bill. Opinions from the Bulgarian Foundation are also received from the Bulgarian Society for the Protection of Birds, which also do not support the Bill. In the subsequent discussion it was emphasized that the Bulgarian legislation is fully in line with European Union law regarding the time limits for the hunting of wild game. Romania is the only European Union country where the hunt for certain types of geese and ducks is authorised until 28 February and is currently subject to criminal proceedings against it. In addition, 1/3 of the Danube Delta in Romania is declared a reserve in which hunting for watery game is prohibited throughout the year. In neighbouring Greece, where some species are hunted until February 10th, the hunting of watery game is prohibited in all areas of the Natura 2000 network, where their highest numbers are. With regard to the argument that wintering waterbirds are causing significant damage to crops, it was recalled that farmers receive compensation for the damage suffered by environmental measures. In addition, studies have shown that the grazing damage of wintering geese is limited to small areas and is below the 15% threshold. Last but not least, it was noted that at the end of January the prenuptial migrations of most of the water birds began and their hunting during this period permanently destroys the formed pairs, leads to loss of energy and reduces the chances of birds to survive and migrate to nesting sites. In addition, in the areas of Shabla and Durankulak Lake winters about 90% of the world population of endangered species. The flocks are as a rule mixed and it is virtually impossible to distinguish between the species authorised for hunting and endangered. In this sense, the extension of the hunting season in February will have a negative impact on the population and will lead to shooting, in violations of hunting and conservation legislation. After the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 2 votes for the game, without the opposition, and 14 votes for the abstentions, proposed that the National Assembly not adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Hunting and Conservation of Wildlife, No 554-01-11, submitted by the National Representative Petar Petrov, Boris Yachev and a group of MPs on 23 January 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u30	Thank you. Mr. Hristov, please present the other report, which is about the other two bills for amending and supplementing the Law on Hunting and Conservation of Game.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I suggest to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on two bills amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 554-01-89, submitted by the National Representative Vili Lilkov and a group of MPs on 13 May 2015 and No 602-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 January 2016. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 9 March 2016, discussing two draft amendments to the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 554-01-89, submitted by the National Representative Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs on 13 May 2015 and No 602-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 January 2016. In the work of the Committee took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Georgi Kostov Deputy Minister and experts; from the Executive Agency of Forests: Toni Krastev Executive Director, Daniela Angelova Director of the Directorate of Administrative and Legal Service and Human Resources, Rumen Yankulov Director of the Department of Love Economy, and experts. From the Ministry of Interior: Krassimir Tsipov Deputy Minister, and Emil Angelov Head of the Office of the General Directorate of the National Police. From the Ministry of Environment and Water: Valeri Georgiev There were also representatives of the scientific community and a wide range of NGOs. The bill of Willy Lilkov and a group of MPs was presented by the MP Nikola Hadzhiyski. The Law proposes the Minister of Agriculture and Food's orders to determine and change the boundaries of the hunting areas to be subject to judicial review under the Administrative-Processional Code. The Chair of a hunting association is intended to be able to assign the activities of an organisation of hunting activities to a member of the association holding the necessary qualifications and only in cases where it does not have one, to conclude a contract with a hunting specialist. The fixed period of three years shall be replaced by a three-year hunting entitlement for persons who do not regularly hold a certified membership card or a hunting ticket or a regular one, but without a hunting permit or hunting outside the parameters specified in the permit. The requirement to destroy stray dogs and cats caught in hunting areas is removed, provided that they possess the scars of runaways or lost pets, they are notified to the respective municipal pet control services. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports the bill in principle. In the subsequent discussion, the MPs from all parliamentary groups supported the possibility of judicial review of the orders of the Minister of Agriculture and Food to determine and change the boundaries of the hunting areas, but it was recalled that according to Decree No 2 of 7 June 2007 of the Minister of Agriculture and Food for the interpretation of case No 1/2007, this order is not an individual administrative act and is not subject to judicial review. In addition, it should be assessed whether such an appeal will stop the implementation, given the danger that this would lead to the practical impossibility of hunting during the appeal procedure. As regards the other texts, it was noted that they were generally covered by those of the Council of Ministers. The bill of the Council of Ministers was presented by Tony Krastev. The bill proposes the following major changes. The first group is related to the organisation of the hunting area. The procedure and the necessary documents to change the boundaries of the hunting areas are detailed. It is intended for the areas operated by state hunting farms to take place on a proposal from the hunting council of the Forest Executive Agency, and for the hunting groups areas on a proposal from the hunting council of the Regional Forest Directorate after an opinion of the management board of the hunting associations. The obligation to build all enclosed areas in the hunting areas, regardless of their size, is introduced in coordination with the Minister for Environment and Water. In addition, when applying for their construction, game managers should provide additional notarized consent from the owner of the property and an opinion from the state forestry or hunting holding that this is provided for in the forest plan. The possibility of using the State Hunting Farm for representative needs and for organizing official events is removed. For such needs, the State Hunting Farm will continue to be used. The Ministry of Education will also be used for research and training activities in the field of hunting. State forest enterprises are intended to enter into a contract for joint operation of activities in the territory of state hunting holdings only with persons who, apart from the State, have also paid to the municipality. The second group of changes is related to the use and conservation of game. A pneumatic weapon with certain indicators and bows shall be allowed to be used for hunting. The possibility of group hunting of deer is regulated while the use of dogs is prohibited. A ban is introduced on the use of traps for catching wild boar outside the enclosed areas. By two weeks, the time limit for group hunting of the wild boar is reduced. The Law removes the exceptional order provided for as an exception to the ban on hunting a brown bear, with the issuing of a shooting permit being fully included as an obligation of the Minister of Environment and Water. For this purpose, relevant changes are also made to the Biodiversity Act. A ban is introduced on hunting on days when elections and national referendums are held. An obligation is introduced for hunting associations to provide security in the areas they manage by concluding contracts with at least two hunter guards. It is regulated that persons managing the game and holding a permit to store hunting weapons and ammunition may provide it for hunting purposes to natural persons hunting along the line of organised hunting tourism. In addition, employees of the Forest Executive Agency and its structures carrying out forest and game protection functions shall be given the opportunity to keep their professional firearms and ammunition at their permanent disposal. The relevant amendments to the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles shall be made. The transitional and final provisions provide for the holdings of the holdings of Studen Kladenets and Eledzhiks to be provided by the respective state enterprise of the National Association........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The holding is provided for the management and use of the National Security Service. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Environment and Water supports the Bill. The Ministry of Interior also supports the Bill by making a concrete proposal on the order to provide and return firearms and ammunition. There is also an opinion from the Bulgarian hunting and fishing union with concrete proposals on the texts. In the subsequent discussion the MPs from all parliamentary groups expressed the understanding that the proposed changes for the most part were good and should be supported, but assessed them as insufficient to solve some of the most important problems related to the organisation and management of hunting areas. They noted that more serious changes were needed and a conceptually different approach to the management of the hunting farm to ensure both the state interest and the interest of the huge number of people practicing their hobby. A unanimous disagreement was expressed with the proposal to resolve the group hunting of the deer. The Ministry recalled that the proposed changes were the result of long-term work and that solutions were sought to meet the broadest possible support. In addition, they explained that there was a working group that developed a new National strategy for game conservation and development of the hunting farm to define the main parameters of the development of the sector and to serve to develop an entirely new law. The strategy should be ready by the end of 2016. In conclusion, it was unanimous that, given the differing interests, it is very difficult to reach consensus on all issues between stakeholders, but efforts should be made to find working solutions. They called for support for the two bills and made a commitment between the first and second votes to submit concrete proposals to refine the texts. Following the debates held: 1. The Committee on Agriculture and Foods proposes to the National Assembly with 18 votes for the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Wildlife, No 554-01-89, submitted by the National Representative Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs on 13 May 2015; 2. The Committee on Agriculture and Foods proposes to the National Assembly with 18 votes for the Council to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Wildlife, No 602-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u32	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Two reports from the Environment and Water Commission follow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 554-01-11, submitted by Peter Hristov Petrov and a group of MPs on 23 January 2015. At its regular meeting on 29 January 2015, the Committee on Environment and Waters examined at first reading a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 554-01-11, submitted by Peter Hristov Petrov and a group of MPs on 23 January 2015. The Ministry of Environment and Waters attended the meeting: Mr. Pavel Gudzherov Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Rayna Hardalova Head of the Department of Biodiversity. at the Directorate of the National Nature Protection Service. from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Mr. Toni Krastev Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency, Mr. Krasimir Kamenov Deputy Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency, Milena Hadzhiyska, Legal Consult at the Directorate of the Administrative and Legal Service of the Ministry of Forests, Daniela Angelova. On behalf of the importers, the bill and the reasons for its introduction were presented by the National Representative Petar Hristov, who stressed that the changes made are related to the difference in the time limits for the hunting of waterbirds laid down in the identical laws in countries of the European Union. The project provides for a change in hunting time, which will not endanger the population and number of species. Last but not least, the change is required by the fact that some of the birds are causing serious damage to farmers' crops during the period of banning them. After the opening of the debate by the President of the Commission, Mr. Tony Krastev took the position, who stressed that they do not support the proposed changes as the time limits in the current Law are in line with both the country's specific conditions and the legislation and practices in the other countries of the European Union. The Ministry of Environment and Water Mrs. Hardalova stressed that there is no reason to ask for an extension of this deadline. She added that European and international law, including the Wild Birds Conservation Directive and the Bern Convention, lays down requirements to ensure that the practice of hunting complies with the principles of prudent use of hunting resources and environmentally balanced regulation. In this context, extending the hunting season will be a real prerequisite for launching a criminal procedure with regard to our country. The bill also does not conform to the biological characteristics of migrating waterbirds during this period. In conclusion, Mrs. Hardalova noted that the preservation of the current bird hunting regime has other advantages, including providing better opportunities for ecological tourism based on bird observation and increasing the amount of game left, which would benefit from the reduction of the hunting press in the areas concerned. Following the debates, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 2 votes for the Environment, 4 votes against the Environment and Waters, 7 abstentions and 7 abstentions did not support the Bill and expressed the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly not to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 554-01-11, submitted by Peter Hristov Petrov and a group of MPs on 23 January 2015. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 602-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 January 2016. At its regular meeting on 21 January 2016, the Environment and Water Commission examined at first reading the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act, No 602-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 January 2016 and allocated to the Commission on Agriculture and Food as the lead. The meeting was attended by: - from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Mr. Georgi Kostov, Deputy Minister; - from the Executive Agency for Forests (IAG): Mr. Tony Krastev, Executive Director, Mrs. Daniela Angelova, Director of the Administrative Legal Service and Human Resources Directorate, Mr. Julian Rusev, Mr. Julian Rusev. expert at the Department of Hunting and Ms. Denitsa Alexandrova Senior Legal Consult; - by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mr. Miroslav Kalugerov On behalf of the importer The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Mr. Krastev and supplemented by Deputy Minister Kostov. The changes proposed by the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game are mainly related to: - the improvement of the organisation of the hunting area in setting up the hunting areas of the hunting groups and the hunting areas of the surrounding areas; - uniformity of the rules ensuring the exercise of the right to hunt; - reducing the time limits for group hunting; - the introduction of the possibility of group hunting of deer, and last but not least, the introduction of an obligation for hunting associations to provide security and better control in the areas they manage. The project provides for a ban on the use of traps for catching wild boar outside the surrounding areas. In this way, public discontent will be significantly reduced over the years and will contribute to the common animal welfare policy. With a view to fulfilling the obligations arising from the Directive on the conservation of natural habitats of wild flora and fauna, a complete ban on hunting a brown bear in the country is provided for in the European legislation. For the harmonisation of the provisions of the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game and the Law on Biological Diversity, the Bill provides for the issuance of a permit for the shooting of a bear to be removed from the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game and to be inserted as an obligation of the Minister of Environment and Water. Another change in the proposed bill is regarding the permitted means of hunting, giving the right to hunt, except with smooth or slashed firearms, and with pneumatic weapons and bows. It is possible for game keepers under the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act who have issued a permit for the storage of hunting weapons and ammunition to be able to provide it for hunting purposes to natural persons hunting along the line of organised hunting tourism after presenting a valid ticket and corresponding authorisation. The project also provides for the regulation of the group hunting of deer due to an increased stock of this species in recent years, banning the use of dogs. In general, the envisaged amendments and additions to the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act aim to overcome the shortcomings of the current legislation, reflecting on the use and management of game in hunting and hunting groups, as well as the conservation of the brown bear, and bringing this Law into line with European law. Attitudes on the submitted bill took the MPs: Manol Genov on hunting areas, control, restrictions during elections and recording of hunters in settlements; Hristo Grudev on the activities, good faith and number of hunters in hunting farms, welcoming the measures of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food; Borislav Velikov, paying attention that the Committee on Environment and Water is not leading and raised questions about the protection of the environment and animal species; Georgi Bozhinov on the change of borders, ownership, arms regulation and control; Willi Lilkov.................................................................................................................................................................. Chavdar Georgiev concerning the administration and bans of hunting, and Stanislav Ivanov, who asked questions about the opinion of the Bulgarian hunting and fishing union, the need to drop paragraphs 2 and 4 of art. 31 and the introduction of duties by the Hunting Council to the Regional Forest Directorates for Border Change, announcing that it will not vote because of participation in the Governing Council of the Bulgarian Hunting and Fisheries Union. Detailed answers to the questions, comments and explanations were given by Deputy Minister Kostov and Mr. Krastev. Following the end of the discussions and the voting procedure, the Committee on Environment and Water, with 15 votes in favour, without the opposition and 1 abstention, supported the draft and expressed the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 602-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 January 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u34	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. The last report submitted is by the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. She's having a meeting right now. Is there any representative of this Commission in this House to present the report, who has missed this opportunity for a sitting? I won't. Then I will only allow myself to read the Commission's opinion and the results of the vote: As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes in favour of the Council of Ministers on 7 January 2016, supported the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Wildlife, No 602-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 January 2016, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt it in the first vote. These are all reports, honourable Members. On behalf of the importers, would anyone like to present the bill? Mr. Petar Petrov will argue the proposal made under the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act on behalf of the importers. You have the word within 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to start with a more cheerful tone. When I was preparing our proposal, I was thinking about Garabed, who complained to Kirkor about being very busy, had a lot of work, and for months now. He said to him, "By noon I do stupid things, and every afternoon I work to fix them and make excuses for them." Why and what does it have to do with our proposal? Bulgaria has for decades had one deadline for the shooting of migratory birds, then someone remembers and says: March 31 is a very long time, let's set January 31st. And now we are dealing with how to justify that 31 January, as the end of the shooting of migratory birds, is not the deadline in line with the conditions in Bulgaria. Here were some opinions that I think are misleading the MPs, namely that in Serbia, as I have data from the experts who prepared the proposal, the hunt was not until the end of February, indicating that in the Natura 2000 sites it was until 31 January. And they forget to inform the MPs that in the entire remaining territory of Serbia, migratory bird hunting is permitted by the end of February. The same scares the MPs: you see, Romania was being persecuted by the European Commission, why the hunt was until the end of February. There are plenty of reasons for that, dear MPs. They hide in the fact that in Western Europe we have a migratory north-south, and in Southeast Europe we have a north-east-southeast. And these are different flights at different times. For this reason the result is that we have the shooting of the local feathered game, as the permits that are given will remain the same and for a longer period leads to the destruction of the native Bulgarian game at the expense of the one who is flying. It is one thing that the deadlines in Bulgaria differ from the time limits of the neighbouring countries. That is also the situation in Greece. It's there by February 10th, after all it's by February 10th, it's not until January 31st. We are, as always, the most exemplary in every way. Let us remember that in England they continue to kill those who are still alive, even though the European Union is leading. So we must stand up for our Bulgarian positions and there is no shame in that. As a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, I would like to inform you that I regularly go to different parts of the country, especially in the eastern part. Many of the MPs in the Committee on Environment and Water were surprised by the fact that there are large areas on which, after they landed 10,000. birds have such cases, they are described, then remain large black areas. In the report again you were slightly misled, dear MPs, with the fact that there were subsidies under the European funds. Yes, there are such subsidies for geese as they came into circulation, but these subsidies are only for those who have joined the agri-environment programme. They do not apply to those small owners on whom their entire fields after such a flight become black. They can't get any subsidies, there's no help. On the other hand, I would like to introduce you to another fact. I've had many conversations with the chairman of associations in certain municipalities and asked them how many migratory birds have killed this season? The answer was one or two or nothing. This is because these birds are very difficult to commit to being killed by hunters, and the hunters I would even recommend that they be able to go out on Wednesday so that they can horny them. They're gonna be horny! That is why I want, after I have made these clarifications and after I have suggested to the MPs that the report, which has been delivered by the various institutions, has been misled in part again: for Serbia, nothing has been mentioned, but for Romania it is said that there is a persecution, not that negotiations are being conducted between Romania and the European Commission on the extension of the duration of the shooting. The second argument I made is that the Bulgarian feathered game is currently being slaughtered, not the migratory one, as could be with the same number of permits that should be given. In this regard, as an importer, and after consulting experts, and also representatives of other parliamentary groups, I would like to inform the MPs that I will not necessarily, as I have suggested, with the group of MPs, be by the end of February, and I am willing to be until the end of February, not until the end of February, but to be somewhere more here in February, but in any case to equalize with our neighbours and to comply with the fact that hunters are not murderers, some hardened relapses, these are people who exercise the oldest occupation of the male part of humanity, namely to engage in hunting, with a hobby from which we currently deprive them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u36	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. These intentions of yours can, of course, be realized between first and second readings. The second bill, Mr. Lilkov, would you like it? You don't want to. The bill of the Council of Ministers, I think, was presented with regard to committee reports. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate on speeches. Here you go. Mr. Zhelev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have studied parliamentary practice so far and it shows that when a draft amendment and supplement to the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act enters parliament, it is always accompanied by violent debates. It's a law that has little economic value, few people living by hunting, but focuses a lot of passions, as hunting has long ceased to be a means and a way of livelihood. It is a hobby, emotion, passion, for some even a way of life, but not a way to make ends meet. Perhaps this time we will not make an exception, and the proposed three laws will also lead to serious debates. And, God forbid, the truth is born in a dispute. Therefore, in order for the debate to become quality and to escape from some guerrilla that has been noticed lately, I would like to share with you some facts that are indisputable. We need to make a law on hunting and game conservation. Even as we have shared with colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, who are currently in the Chamber, why not change the name and become the Law on the Protection of Game and Hunt, not a law that satisfies the interests of one or another of the Bulgarian hunters, of one or another association, whether it be one that is titled by the name. Bulgaria is a unique country in nature. We are the second most biodiversity country in Europe. The biotopes in which game breeds in Bulgaria are fantastic. The locations are from first, second, third Bonite. The climate is soft. The diversity of flora is great. The food base, too. Through the territory of Bulgaria pass the big bird highways of migratory birds God has been generous to us in hunting. The whole territory of Bulgaria by removing from it urbanized territories and those parts of the country that are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environment and Water, namely the three national parks of Central Balkan and Pirin, reserves and maintained reserves, all the rest of the territory, regardless of what the stock borders and ownership of the land are, is a hunting area. The wild game in Bulgaria is private state property. This hunting area, assuming that it is 100%, is distributed as follows: 6% own the state hunting farms, 7% is the area of the state game farms to the state forestry holdings. The remaining 87% are provided by the state to the Bulgarian hunters. This is done by the conclusion of contracts between the representatives of the State, in the person of the directors of forestry and hunting farms, and the hunting associations, which are legal entities representing Bulgarian hunters registered under the Law on non-profiters. The contracts to be concluded shall be referred to as the contracts for the holding and use of the holding. With the use of game, the associations are doing very well. However, the maintenance remains quite in the background, or as we have said before, and we have already said it: and the Lord has done his job, he has given us a wonderful biotope. The state and it has done its part: it has provided a large part of the territory. All we have to do is start managing it in the way it's supposed to be. In the proposals of your attention Bill, especially of the Council of Ministers, because the other two laws are very specific "The Law of the Council of Ministers is more general, more conceptual, the initial idea was to really lead to a serious fundamental change that would change the organisation of the hunting area, the way of receiving new hunters and so on. For one reason or another, this did not happen now, as the working group at the Hunting Council and the Ministry decided to do so at a later stage after a strategy for development of the hunting farm in Bulgaria was prepared. An attempt was made to make such a strategy. A certain amount of money was even spent, but the result was highly unsatisfactory at the discretion of all experts. Now the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has set out again to draw up the strategy that needs to take place by the end of this year. Before that, I would like us to have a serious discussion on the objectives that this strategy will pursue, because the strategy is actually a means of achieving certain objectives, and we must unite ourselves around the objectives that we pursue with the strategy. I fully support the proposals that have been made, in fact, not entirely, but, for the most part, by the Council of Ministers and the other two bills, too. And not because I agree 100% with some things that have been done in them, but because I wish there would be a real discussion at second reading when we look at the texts specifically. The report of the President of the Commission expressed the positive things in the proposals. I won't repeat them. We'll look at them further, as you all know. Of course, there are some things that I'm saying right now that I personally couldn't agree with, as is the proposal for a group deer hunt. I believe that this is not well argued and at second reading I will make my arguments about this. It's an extensive way of hunting that we shouldn't go back to the past, and we're not going to the civilized world that way. I also think that there are certain inaccuracies in the other hunting deadlines, not only for the watery game, as Mr. Petrov emphasized, for the quail and the goug, for the crow, for the wild boar, for the badger, but this will become clear later. It is very important to make a good law because game is the living decoration of nature and it belongs to the entire people, even though they have the right to use it only by hunting tickets. It is often said that there are 130 thousand hunters in Bulgaria. Technically speaking, that's true. However, I would like to play with words and say that there are actually 130 thousand hunters in Bulgaria, which does not make them automatic hunters. A lot of these people don't even have guns and have become hunters just like that to have a hunting ticket. Others bought weapons, but very rarely practice hunting sport. Active hunters in Bulgaria are not more than 60 or 70 thousand people. And that's not a little bit. To be a hunter means to love nature, to know the game and its biology, to know the hunting legislation, to observe it, to know the shooting standards, to be ready to support the game with your work and financially. Let each one answer his own question of how much he covers these requirements and whether he has the right to be called a hunter. With regard to hunting deadlines, they have been fixed for a long time, and we are all witnessing serious climate change. You know, even the ancient Romans have said: "Panta Rae." Everything is flowing, everything is changing. There are some changes that we need to take into account that they are reality and we could really change the deadlines in some way so that they become adequate to the conditions. I propose that we support you at first reading all three bills so that we can hold the real debate on each particular text between first and second readings. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u38	Thank you, Mr. Zhelev, for the fundamental speech and for the introduction to the topic. - What's the line? Mr. Bojinov, you have the opportunity to reply. The speech was wide. All sorts of topics you can replicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zhelev, it is rarely in this House that this speech is supported so widely, with such sincere applause. Your speech really deserves it because it presented a credible picture of the situation, showed the problems and called for support so that something better could be done. I also supported the Commission's drafts: this is the one of my colleague Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs, because he proposes a better solution for setting the boundaries of hunting and forestry areas; this is that of the Council of Ministers, with the condition that consent has come to the minimum of the questions needed for a solution, but I am taking a reply to you because after saying that it was and should be the main conservation, conservation of game as natural and national wealth, you said that some or other problems and contradictions have led to this from the wide range of issues needed to be resolved better, it must have come to this narrow circle. And my question is: is not another legislative solution from earlier on for the division of two associations of hunters, just asking your personal opinion, as a reply, one of these reasons for the existence of an organised conflict of interest that prevents the single strategy, for a new law that will settle all that is necessary? Otherwise, congratulations on your speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u40	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. An example of interparty tolerance. Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Zhelev, for the back. We're almost at parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Bojinov, thank you for your question. I'll try to be specific. I can't live on a judge to judge whether it's okay or bad. In principle, I am a fan of having more than one representative and having competition. The question is this competition for what it is. So at the beginning of my speech, I began to avoid guerrilla. Indeed, the existence of two unions has led to a great deal of conflict, to a struggle for membership, to a fight to attract associations. There are many things that need to be discussed under this Law. Next, it will be a question of whether two companies are sufficient to establish an association and if they create this association, do they have the financial security to carry out any organizational life? Or it's a form just for use of the game, as I said, and the management disappears through the chimney. Bulgaria was a country that was proud of the achievements in its hunting business. The world record of a noble deer is Bulgarian! The world record of wild boar was until recently Bulgarian. The Hungarians beat us by one or two points, but we have doubts I don't want to share from here. The world record of wild cat skin is Bulgarian! We had incredible achievements that we were envious of all Western Europe. The Germans said: in many other ways we can be ahead, but in terms of the achievements that you have in the field of hunting, we are very much behind you. At the moment, unfortunately, the state of the game in Bulgaria is not satisfactory and is disturbing. Therefore, the adoption of this Law, in which there are many positive and right things, is so pressing to happen. It will be just one start for the fundamental conceptual change in the development of hunting activities in Bulgaria after the adoption of the hunting strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Zhelev. People's representative Rumen Hristov is speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u43	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I and the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block will support the bill submitted by colleague Willy Lilkov and the Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers, not because these two laws were unanimously supported by the Committee on Agriculture and Food, but because I believe that this is a step in the right direction. I will not hide that there have been lively, violent debates at the Commission meeting and we have been criticised for the fact that the things proposed in this bill are not radical enough are not important enough. I want to tell you that I am not a hunter and I love animals very much. This is what gives me the opportunity to be very strict about the texts written in the Bill, which concern the protection of game. The colleague Zhelev is absolutely right that the next bill, which will be conceptually new, which will be after the adoption of the strategy on which NGOs and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Executive Forest Agency are working, must be called the Wildlife Protection and Hunting Act. Yes, first of all, we need to focus on the protection of the game, because, again, I say, with colleague Zhelev, because we are discussing these issues, we commented on Leonardo di Caprio's statement when he was finally awarded the award of the Oscar, who said that we take the planet for granted. She's not for granted. It changes, and it changes into an unfavorable direction for all the inhabitants of this planet. Part of what we need to preserve, apart from climate, is biodiversity and game, which, as we have just heard from colleague Zhelev, is in an unbecoming position. I will tell you that the debate on the Bill has started November 2014. This is the longest discussed bill within the framework of the Commission, working groups, public discussions and so on, perhaps because the interests are really very high. Several things that have been highlighted in both the report and in the speech of colleague Zhelev trace the most important things related to the changes in this bill. They are related to the dates, to the definite disagreement of the MPs about the admission of group deer hunting. According to the toll I don't trust very much, Assoc. Kostov and eng. Krastev, there are 100,000 deer in Bulgaria. 120,000 hunters don't have one deer per hunter. [[Laughter and raging]] so that we do not allow this barbaric enterprise to hunt deer. I hope that the plenary will support the thesis of the Members of Parliament, supported by the Commission. Interesting are the proposals related to the way of organizing trap hunting: these traps are prohibited outside the fences from being set for the future; how the surrounding areas are created; how the Ministry of Environment and Water intervenes in terms of their permission; we are completely transferring bear hunting to the Ministry of Environment and Water, because it is an extremely protected species and it does not belong to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Little steps at all, but, again, steps in the right direction. I am only making a statement in the direction of responding to the criticisms made by NGOs during the discussion that what is being proposed is not enough. Yes, it is small, but at least until we adopt the new Law, which will be adopted, I hope, at the latest next year at this time, we will have better regulation and better treatment of animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. - What's the line? I won't. The next statement is from Mrs. Sultanka Petrova. Despite the gender inequality in this class, the ladies have an important role to play. Mrs. Petrova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not a hunter, but I understand there are a lot of women involved. Colleagues, at first reading, the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support all three bills. I would like to thank Mr. Rumen Zhelev, who is one of the active colleagues in our Commission. We've always listened to his suggestions. It was very comprehensive and beneficial in its speech. This bill has aroused a great deal of discussion. For a very long time we were the people who listened to various NGOs who wanted to meet with us. I think there are still a lot of texts that we need to clear, but we have united that we need to support the three bills, because we have an extremely great need for changes that need to be made in the Hunting and Game Conservation Act. In this regard, it has been mentioned before me that a strategy will be developed, which will perhaps be one of the priorities of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Many negative opinions have been expressed, but please, colleagues, let us support these changes, they are quite good. We will also make our proposals between first and second readings, because we do not agree with the group hunting of the deer, what my colleagues mentioned before me. We have other disagreements, which I think we will clear in time between first and second readings. I hope we will accept a working and satisfying to some extent the people who are engaged in hunting, all the more so that with this bill we are partly responding to the fact that we need to be responsible for the Bulgarian nature and for the welfare of animals. Therefore, I ask that all hunters be responsible for the management and conservation of Bulgarian nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u46	And thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. - What's the line? I won't. Dear colleague, come in for a speech. The MP, Mr. Grudev, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am a hunter. I want to express not only my opinion. Before examining this bill, I held a meeting in our region with the presidents of the hunting associations of Plovdiv, Asenovgrad, Pervomay, Chepelare. They all welcome and support him. I believe it is timely because there have been a lot of problems on the territory of our Plovdiv area in connection with the illegal use of wild boar traps on the border with fences and outside the fences. We had several meetings, measures were taken and things were decided thanks to the cooperation of Assoc. Kostov, Director of the Executive Forest Agency in Bulgaria. I want to protect the hunters. In recent years, the efforts they have made to nourish the game have greatly increased. By the way, 148 thousand were issued hunting tickets, of which 122 434 were certified for this year. This is a serious organized group of hunters who not only use the game, but claim to feed it. Relations that existed between hunting parties and hunting associations have already improved significantly. Both groups take care of the game, not only as an increase in its population, but also feeding during the winter period when the game is in severe condition in relation to climate conditions. It is good that the Law on Hunting with Traps was taken with the Law tabled by the Council of Ministers, as there were the most conflicts. An attitude has been taken for the stray dogs and the stray dogs. Between first and second readings, I'm going to put in a proposal on the hunting period. The sight of fellow hunters from our region is if the deadline from 1 October to 31 December can come out of the Law and enter the Rules, because sometimes hunting days are lost in connection with elections, ballets and so on. This creates some tension among fellow hunters. For the hunting guards. At a meeting of the Commission, we received assurances from Deputy Minister Kostov that the funds to be allocated to the hunting associations for salaries and insurance to the respective hunter guards and guards will be deducted from the amounts that the hunting associations transfer to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. In general, I say again that the bill is timely, it is good and represents one step in the development towards the next strategy, which will be adopted as the Deputy Minister said by the end of the calendar year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u48	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Dobrin Danev has declared a wish to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to express the position of BSP left Bulgaria on the amendments to the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. Firstly, there is unanimous opinion of all political forces on the existing Law. In any case, it needs screaming changes if we want to make changes so that we can achieve the level that we have had in the recent past, the level of agricultural activity, the population of game and trophies, rated with medals in various world exhibitions. We therefore agree to make this change in the Law. We also agree that the tabled proposals for changes are taking a small step in the right direction. Our position was the one that Commissioner Zhelev from GERB supported "that we must first adopt a strategy in the long and medium term and, based on this strategy, do a slow, systematic change of the Law so that we can achieve the goals identified. Therefore, the proposals made in the Law will support them. They were following. We fully support the ban on trapping a wild boar, as our colleagues have said. We also support the new order in which fences should be built in hunting areas. However, some of the proposals disagree. In § 2, Art. 7, para. 9 The case of the change in the boundaries of the hunting areas, they should be made unilaterally by the State forestry or by the State hunting holding, thus making the entities involved in this change entitled to appeal these changes in the borders. Between first and second readings, we will submit such a proposal. We do not agree, as my colleagues have also said, to allow group hunting of deer, as experts say that the population is such that at this stage it is not necessary to allow such catch. We want to make a proposal in the Law, specifically in § 20, art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 6 For the hunting associations which must appoint at least two hunter guards, the funding for the maintenance of these hunter guards should be done by passing on part of the hunting fee that goes to the State, being assigned to the hunting associations, so that the order of the Law can be fulfilled. We know that hunting associations are not in an enviable financial state, and if they have to comply with the Law, they will be very difficult to do so. We will also make proposals to change the period of hunting for different game types, which we consider normal. At the risk of repeating myself, I think that all political forces are uniting around changing these dates and deadlines. That is why we of the Coalition Left Bulgaria and the Commission have expressed our support, and my colleagues between first and second reading expect to see which changes will be supported and then form their position. Colleagues, thank you. I expect us to adopt the Law at first reading and between first and second reading to make reasonable proposals to achieve the goal we have set ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u50	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Ahmedova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Everyone who started his speech at first said whether he was a hunter or not. I can say I'm a hunter, but of those who manage the game more than they hunt.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u52	In a way, this is about conflict of interest, so it is important to declare it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u53	In my opinion, hunters in Bulgaria are decent people. A bigger problem is poachers who have never been mentioned here. The authorities they need to control must do their job better so that the game can be kept in better condition, because hunters, in addition to hunting, are also engaged in management. With regard to the specific proposed bills. Mr. Zhelev said that whenever the subject of hunting and game conservation is opened, there are violent debates. Colleagues, there are no violent debates today because they are selected consensus proposals. If we had to go towards a drastic change of the Law, the violent debates would have ended unknowingly in what direction. Therefore, all political forces, at least in the Committee on Agriculture and Food, were united that they would support the bill. The bills change a small but essential and very necessary part of the current Law. I will not repeat the words of my fellow Members who have spoken. With regard to the group hunting of the deer, of course we can't support it. With regard to the traps, of course, we must remove them. I would like to focus on the bill of colleague Willy Lilkov and, more precisely, on the part where he proposes to be able to appeal against the Minister's orders. Why am I adamant about this change? Because last year, for example, it became something that serves as a good example. The Minister issued an order in which he made a mistake, but since the order is not subject to appeal, there is no way to change that thing. Only because the Minister of Agriculture today is a man of reason.. canceled his own order, and thus solved the problem. If you weren't that kind of guy, then what are we doing? We are a legislative body, and that is why we must make the Law such that it does not depend on an executive. In the text of the Draft Law, which colleague Willy Lilkov proposes the orders to be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code, we are aware that if such order were opened, this appeal would contribute to administrative chaos in the other part. Therefore, the consensus decision is to be able to appeal, but the appeal not to suspend the execution of the order in order that, on the one hand, the person may have the opportunity to appeal against it, on the other hand the order to act, and once the court has annulled it, to take the relevant judgment, which in Bulgaria, naturally, is not subject to any comment. We will support the bill of colleague Willy Likov, we will also support the Draft of the Council of Ministers, which we believe that the changes in this part are not enough, but as a small step, we believe are in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Petrov, you have spoken, so you have the floor on behalf of the importer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say to the Members of the National Assembly that the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game has not yet provided for any situations I have calls from voters that some of them no longer have one bee left. No animals, no birds, nothing is left in some, I don't say in all! In this regard, it seems to me that the State is also in debt and as legislation in order to be able to sanction those who do not fulfil their contract on the concession of game farms. I would also like to draw attention to the MPs for the protests they have on the part of hunters in relation to borders that have set themselves some of the concessionaires that cause conflicts on the ground. There must also be flexible legislation in this regard. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the forests, the game are national wealth, and the National Assembly as an organization has not foreseen a committee to deal with the issues of the Bulgarian forest and the game. I think that we should think, even though we already have Rules for the establishment of a committee that can be more detailed, for example, I see Mr. Zhelev as the head of such a committee, who will deal with this problem in detail, and it is related to Bulgaria, nature, animals, birds and everything else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u56	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Zhelev. There was a personal offer to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u57	For the proposal, I thank Mr. Petrov I do not take it very seriously. My line is to correct a slight inaccuracies. Mr. Petrov is probably right when he said that in some game farms he was referring to state hunting stations, as mentioned at the outset, they are 7% of the entire area, but not more than 2,5% are committed to concession contracts. Two percent of the entire hunting area of the country alone! No concessionaires set their limits. This shall be determined by the Minister on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Agency, who shall follow the proposals from the Hunting Committees below, of the Chairs of Associations and of the Directors of Forest Hunting Farms. At the moment, the new Law is making a very important proposal, which removes from the heads of directors the pressure that has given them a variety of political and all other powers to change the boundaries of hunting areas and send it as a proposal to the Hunting Council and to the hunting councils, which are advisory bodies of regional directorates and the forest executive agency. It's a form of public discussion. All interested parties are present in these councils. It is a decision of a collective body, and the individual responsibility of the directors is removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u58	Thank you. Second line? Mr. Willy Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. While the MPs are gathering for a vote, only one sentence.. Mr. Petrov's reply. We don't have to set up a separate committee. Rather, to the Committee on Environmental Protection, we should add game, and we should really start dealing with this problem more seriously. If you accept that, we can work this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u60	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Third line? I won't. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Petrov? No. Last call for a speech? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are closing the debate on the three Bills of Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Hunting and Conservation of Game. Honourable Members, we are going into voting mode. [[Heckling]] Conflict of interest, I hope everyone has declared it. First, we are voting on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 554-01-11, submitted by the National Representative Boris Yachev and a group of MPs on 23 January 2015. I recall that the two committees to which it is assigned propose that it should not be adopted in the first vote. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]] I understand that there is a discrepancy between the report and the draft law announced in the programme is announced that it is a bill submitted by Petar Petrov and a group of MPs, in the report of the two committees to which the bill is allocated, it was announced that it was submitted by Boris Yachev and a group of MPs. [[Reply.]] I read the number, it's the same number. We will assume that this is the bill submitted by Peter Hristov Petrov, Boris Yachev and a group of MPs. Honourable Members, we are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 554-01-11, submitted by the MPs Petar Petrov, Boris Yachev and a group of MPs on 23 January 2015. I remind you that the two committees propose not to be adopted at first reading. [[Noise and lines.]] I merely recall that there was a debate and the support of the proposal was encouraged. They voted 109 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 27. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, we are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 554-01-89, tabled by the National Representative Willi Lilkov and a group of MPs. The bill is supported at first reading by the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Vote 107 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 3. The proposal is accepted at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 602-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 January 2016. The three committees that provided a report recommend supporting it. Voted 109 MPs: 103, none, abstention 6. The proposal is adopted by which the three bills at first reading. Let's continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR MARITIME SPACES, INTERNAL WATER ROADS AND PORTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importers are Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs. Since we started 30 minutes later, the break will be around 12:00. The report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications will introduce us to its President, Mr. Nastimir Ananiev. Mr. Ananiev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I would like to propose a procedure for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Transport Anton Ginev and Krasimira Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u62	A counteroffer? I won't. We are voting on the procedural proposal for admission in this House. Please, colleagues who are in the Chamber, but you are not at your banks, and also vote. Honourable Members, please vote for admission in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u63	Time's up!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u64	Please suspend the vote and declare the result. Vote 64 MPs: 64, no opposition and no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u65	There's no quorum. Run a roll call.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u66	That's right. There's no jurisdiction. [[Noise and lines.]] May I have your attention, please? The persons listed shall not be allowed in the Chamber. Proceed with the report. [[(Noise and lines:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u67	Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law amending the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-25, submitted by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 1 March 2016. During a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 9 March 2016, a Draft Law amending the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria was discussed, No 654-01-25, submitted by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 1 March 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Law at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The bill was presented by the MP Ivan Valkov. Mr. Valkov noted that with the proposed project the legal delegation established in art. 103c, para. 4 of the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Council of Ministers should regulate the terms, conditions and sizes of port charges collected by the State Enterprise Port Infrastructure. The reasons for the amendment are as follows: Acting under the authority of art. 103c, para. 4 of the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria with Decree No 97 of the Council of Ministers of 2007 approved the Tariff on Port Fees collected by the State Enterprise Port Infrastructure. The tariff lays down rules on the collection of port charges for public transport ports of national and regional importance, yacht, fishing and special purpose ports. The tariff quoted has been amended and supplemented by Decree No 254 of the Council of Ministers since 2014. The amendments to the Tariff on port charges collected by the State-owned Port Infrastructure since 2014 have been challenged in judicial proceedings, including with arguments for the lack of competence of the Council of Ministers to arrange for the collection of port charges in public transport ports of regional importance, yachts, fisheries and special purpose ports. By its decision of 2015, the Supreme Administrative Court respected the complaints, declaring the relevant tariff texts irrelevant. In the reasons for the decision, the court accepts that by art. 103c, para. 4 of the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria is delegated to the Council of Ministers to determine the size of port charges only in respect of ports for public transport of national importance, but not in respect of ports for public transport of regional importance, yachts, fishing and special purpose ports. The judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court of First Instance was confirmed by a decision of a five-member Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court and was in force from 2 February 2016. Mr. Valkov pointed out that the proposed Draft establishes in an unambiguous way the competence of the Council of Ministers to settle the public relations related to the collection by the State-owned enterprise. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications by 9 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. On behalf of Mr. Valkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, the main proposal in the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria is based on the granting of powers of the Council of Ministers to determine the amount of the fee for regional ports. And now in the Law on State Fees, under § 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on State Fees, the amount of the fees is determined by the Council of Ministers. According to the Maritime Area Act, the charges from ports must be collected by a public undertaking. At the same time, in the same Law, the amount of fees by the Council of Ministers can only be fixed for ports of national importance, i.e. ports of regional importance, the amount of fees cannot be determined by the Council of Ministers. This is the basis of the proposal made. We have a positive opinion from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. I would like to thank all the contributors from all the parliamentary groups for their positive opinion and vote in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Valkov. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] I'm closing the debate. Please come in for the procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm making two procedural proposals. The first concerns the Law adopted yesterday on...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u72	Dear Mr. Kirilov, perhaps we should leave the procedures after the break.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u73	As you wish, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u74	You don't mind, do you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u75	Yes, but please don't miss them. Both procedures concern the Law on the Judiciary and the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u76	After the break, I will begin with the procedures and the vote on this Bill, as I have closed the debates. Dear colleagues, take a break until 12.25. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u77	We're continuing the hearing, colleagues. Please, the Quaestors, invite your colleagues to the Chamber. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-25, submitted by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 1 March 2016. Cancel the vote. I'm starting a roll call: Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - absent Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - absent Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - absent Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - absent Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - absent Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - absent Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - here Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - absent Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - absent Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov Ivanov - absent Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - absent Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - absent Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent. We've got a quorum, we're continuing the hearing. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-25, submitted by Ivan Valkov and a group of MPs on 1 March 2016. The additional list includes 19 MPs. I put the bill to the vote at first reading. [[National representatives of the SG of BSP LB stand up and talk.]] Please take your seats! [[National representatives of the SG of BSP LB continue to stand and talk.]] Please, fellow Members of BSP left Bulgaria, take your seats! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Mrs. Nino, Mr. Gechev, Mr. Boychev, Mr. Velev, Mr. Gokov, Mr. Stoychev, please take your seats! We vote. They voted 101 MPs: 99, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The bill was passed in the first vote. Go ahead, Mr. Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal according to art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to vote on the Law amending the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria today and at second reading, as no proposals for amendment or supplement were made during the discussion and the bill itself consists of one paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u79	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Ivan Valkov to examine the bill and to a second vote. Vote 97 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Mr. Valkov, please submit the bill for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Project" LAW amending the Law on maritime spaces, inland waterways and ports of the Republic of Bulgaria § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 103c, para. 4 words by para. 2 and 3 and shall be replaced by......................................................................................................... 2, 3 and 5, first sentence. Final provision § 2. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u81	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the second vote the bill presented to you is a vote on § 1 and 2 as well as on the name of the bill. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The bill has also been passed in a second vote. We move on to the next item on our agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE LOCAL OWNITY. The project is No 502-01-56, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2015, was adopted at the first vote on 6 November. This Decision shall The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to its President Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you: In addition, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Floor Property Management Act, No 502-01-56, which was submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 July 2015, which was adopted on the first vote on 6 November 2015. The second voting project. Name of the House of Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Management of Floor Property. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. According to § 1 "A proposal from the National Representative Dora Yankova and a group of MPs: "1." In Paragraph 1, the amendment under paragraph 1 shall be amended as follows: One down. 2. In Paragraph 1, the amendment under paragraph 1 shall be amended as follows: Two down. 3. In § 1, the amendment to point (c) of paragraph 1 shall be amended as follows: 5 to drop the dose. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1 the following amendments and 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 after the words supplied, the words "repairable' are added, and after the word "him', the words "supplied' are added which lead to the deterioration of the design performance indicators of construction products changed/changed and/or initially invested, as well as/or activities'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 after the word "redesignation" is a comma, the Union "s" is deleted and added a "repair" and a major "repair" is added. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 12 after the word "redesignation" is a comma, the Union is deleted or the "repair" is added or the "repair" is added. 4. A new t. is created. 17: Seventeen. maintain the common parts of the building and their separate object in technical condition, meeting the basic requirements of art. 169, para. 1 of the Law on Construction in the Area; 5. They're creating a t. 18 and 19: 18. ensure the safe operation of all facilities and installations in the building; 19. do not perform activities in the common areas of the building, including the facade, which violate their integrity and architectural appearance, wearability, sustainability of the construction, fire safety or safe use of the building; 6. Previously on "T." 17 becomes t.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u83	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 76, none, abstention 12. The name of the Law is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: 35 against 8, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the text of the importer, generally supported and edited by the Commission,................................................................................................. Vote 75 MPs: 70, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u84	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 2, p. 3 a comma is finally placed and added as for the owner or user an e-mail for notification, if available. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 the 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10, point (c) is added before the word "renewal" is added "renewal" and/or "renewal." 3. A new t. is created. 15: ..15. within the framework of the statutory deadlines for the preparation of a technical passport, adopt a decision to award a technical passport for existing buildings and approve the contract with the contractor, adopt the report on the audit carried out and the assessment of the technical characteristics and the technical passport of the building; 4. Previously on "T." 15 is going to be t. 16................................................ The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following additions 1. In para. 1 sentence, second after the word, the time shall be added to the assignment and a third sentence shall be created: the General Assembly may be scheduled and held at the earliest on the eighth day following the date of the invitation and in urgent cases not earlier than 24 hours after its submission. 2. In para. 2, 3 and 4 after the word The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u85	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 supported and edited by the Commission in its report, as well as the fully supported text of the importer for § 5. We are voting on paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: for 71, against 12, abstention 2. Paragraphs 2 to 5 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u86	Under § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 6: 1.Point 2 is amended as follows: "2." Paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The President of the Management Board (Manager) within the term of para. 6 puts a noticeable and publicly accessible place at the entrance of the building for the preparation of the protocol. A report shall be drawn up for placing the communication by the Chair of the Management Board (Manager) and two owners, users or residents indicating the date, time and place of the communication. A copy of the minutes of the General Assembly and its annexes shall be transmitted to the said e-mail or address in the country in the cases referred to in art. 13, para. 2. Where the person concerned has not indicated an e-mail or address in the country to which copies of protocols are to be sent, it shall be deemed to have been notified by the posting of the message. 2. A new t. is created. 3 containing the following content: "3." A new para is being created. 8 with the following text: On request, the Management Board (the Managing Authority) shall provide a copy of the minutes of the General Assembly and its annexes, which shall be true to the original owner, user or tenant. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 5 the words "In the minutes' shall be replaced by the words "the minutes' and after the word'sign' shall be added the number of the self-contained site, the way in which the persons voted - 'for','restrained' or 'abstained', 'their signature' and a comma shall be placed. 2. In para. The 7th sentence third is amended as follows: "A copy of the minutes of the General Assembly, certified with the inscription "Truely with the original', and the annexes thereto shall be made available to the owners, users or residents, and in the cases referred to in art. 13, para. 2 shall be sent to the specified e-mail or address in the country. 13, para. 2 the person has not indicated an e-mail or address in the country to which copies of protocols are to be sent, it shall be deemed to have been notified by the posting of the message.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u87	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: 19 against 5, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer by the Commission and edited by the same for § 6. We are voting § 6 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 70, none, abstention 11. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u88	Under § 7, there is a proposal from the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. In Paragraph 7, the amendment under paragraph 7 of this Article shall be amended as follows: 2 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u89	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 72 MPs: 12, 20, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 7 fully supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 84 MPs: 71 against 8, abstention 5. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u90	Under § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Kostadin Markov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 19th para. 2 I propose - the Governing Council /the Governor/ is elected for up to 4 years. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. The 8th number is replaced by the "67" after the words "physical persons" shall be added to either legal persons. The sentence shall be amended as follows: The award request shall be approved by a decision of the General Assembly, taken by a majority of more than 67 per cent of the ideal parts of the common parts of the floor property, and shall be concluded by a person appointed by the General Assembly for a period of up to two years and a sentence of three and four shall be created: a statement made for a longer period shall be deemed to have been concluded for two years and a clause providing for... Here, Mr. Chairman, I'm making an editorial proposal. In the text it says "precedents," please read "precedents." And I continue with the text: If the contract is renewed automatically or converted into an unlimited contract, it shall be considered invalid. Within the term of the contract, the selected natural or legal person shall have the rights, obligations and responsibility of the Management Board (Manager) under this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u91	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Kostadin Markov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: 20, against 13, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I would like to put to the vote the editorial proposal, the word "supposes" to be replaced by the word "supposed" made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Danail Kirilov. Please vote. Vote 81 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the text supported by the Commission importer, edited by the same for § 8, together with the newly adopted editorial proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov. We are voting § 8 on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 75, none, abstention 9. Paragraph 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u92	The Commission shall support the text of the importer. According to § 10 the proposal from the National Representative Kostadin Markov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 12: ..12. upon request, issue to the owners a document on the existence or absence of obligations to the floor property; b) the current t. 12 is going to be t. 13. 2. In para. The 2th sentence is first amended as follows: the Management Board (the Governor) shall be reported annually and at the end of its term of office with a report to the General Assembly. Under Paragraph 11, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "repair" and "repair" shall be replaced by "repair" and/or "repair." 2. In para. 4 after the word the building is added to several buildings in flooring mode, which are executed in related construction and everywhere the word "inputs" is replaced by "inputs" or "inputes" is replaced by "inputes" and "inputs" is replaced by "inputes" and "inputes" is replaced by "inputes" and "inputes" is replaced by "inputs" is replaced by "inputs and buildings." 3. In para. 6 Finally, the Statistics Act is added. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 6 the words "two copies" shall be replaced by "one copy." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 2, p. 2 and 3 after the word The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word the owner shall be comma and shall be added as for the liabilities to the association which have become required before the change of ownership, the old owner shall answer unless otherwise agreed upon in the event of the change of ownership. 2. In para. 2 the words "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and/or "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers" and/or "suppliers" shall be replaced by "suppliers." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) A new item shall be created. 9. Nine. upon request, issue to the owners a document on the existence or absence of obligations to the association; b) the current t. 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is equal to 9 is 2. In para. The 10th number is replaced by "67" after the words "physical persons" shall be added to the words "or to legal persons" and sentence two shall be amended as follows: The award request shall be approved by a decision of the General Assembly of the Association, taken by a majority of more than 67 per cent of the presented ideal parts of the association, and shall be concluded by the General Assembly of the Association for a term of up to two years.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u93	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 9 to 16 including the Commission report, with § 9 and § 15 fully supported by the same, and paragraphs 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 16 are supported and edited according to the attached report. We are voting on paragraphs 9 to 16 including the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 69, none, abstention 11. Paragraphs 9 to 16 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u94	According to § 17 the proposal from the National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs: the following point is added: The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. According to § 18, a proposal from the National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 13 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u95	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 18, 12, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs under § 18 which has not been adopted by the Commission. Please vote. We are voting unsupported by the Commission for a proposal. They voted 67 MPs: 13 against 12, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 17 and 18 in the Commission's report. The texts of the importer are fully supported by the same. We are voting on paragraphs 17 and 18 on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: 63, against 2, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. [[There is no quorum needed to adopt the text.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm doing a re-voting procedure. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] There's movement in the room, including from your left-hand side, coming in and out. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u97	Revoting procedure. We are voting on paragraphs 17 and 18 on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 65, against 12, abstention 6. Paragraphs 17 and 18 of the Commission report have been adopted. Before we proceed to the reporting of the following texts, dear Mr Kirilov and honourable colleagues, let me inform you that on the balcony of the National Assembly are lecturers and principals of schools, as well as actors in the field of education from Pernik district. Please welcome them. [[People's representatives welcome the guests with applause.]] You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19: "Seriously, I'm The name of Chapter 3 shall be amended as follows: Control (s) and control (s) The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44, para. 3 after the word "the names" shall be comma and the post office shall be added. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46b after the word "the names" the post office shall be added and the words "the correspondence address" shall be replaced by the address in the country and a copy of the minutes for the selection of the board (manager), which shall bear the inscription "truely with the original" and the annexes thereto. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The name of Chapter 4 is amended as follows: "Chapter 4" - Maintenance, repair and major renovation of the common areas. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23. Paragraph 24. A proposal from the MP Kostadin Markov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. The 4th sentence is first amended as follows: The Mayor of the municipality or the region or an official authorised by him shall carry out an inspection and issue an order within one month of the notification under para. 3 which obliges the owners to carry out the repairs under para. 1 but no later than three months. 2. In para. The first sentence shall be added within three months of the expiry of the repair period under para. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "Users" the minutes shall be drawn up by three owners and/or users, and after the word "date" shall be added, or period and place. 2. In para. 2 after the word "Manager" is added to the control board and the words "Manager and two owners and/or users" are replaced by "three owners and/or users." 3. In para. A sentence 3 first after the word "Sovereigner' shall be added "or one of the owners involved in the collection of the statement'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u99	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 19 to 30, including on the Commission's report. Vote 84 MPs: 72 against 5, abstention 7. Paragraphs 19 to 30, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u100	Paragraph 31. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs: In § 31, a new item is created. 5 with the following content: In Paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 of the Additional Provisions a new sentence shall be created with the following content: "11." The management and maintenance costs shall also be those for heating the common parts with operating heating units within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 37 of the Energy Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision makes the following amendments and additions: 1. Point 10 is amended as follows: ..10. "Main upgrading" is a "removement" within the meaning of the Law on the Construction of the Area. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 12 before the word "renewal" is added. 3. They're creating a t. 17 and 18: Seventeen. The address for correspondence in the Republic of Bulgaria, where the owner, user or resident wishes to receive messages, is indicated by the owner, user or resident. The address in the country may be different from the current or permanent address. 18. It is a major repair within the meaning of the Law on the Construction of the Area.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u101	Present Mr. Simeonov's final offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u102	A separate proposal from Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs is created with the following content: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 1 of that Law does not apply to the existing cases of repairs carried out, an independent object or part thereof, as well as to the existing cases of activities carried out in the common areas of the building, including the façade. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. There aren't any. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal of Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs for § 31, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: 19 against 7, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer by the Commission and edited by the same for § 31. Vote 80 MPs: 70, none, abstention 10. Paragraph 31 has been accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs to create a new § 32. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 71 MPs: 12, against 4, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. That concludes the votes under the Law, which was adopted in the second vote. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u104	Dear Mr. President, before the break, I made an attempt to make two procedural proposals for a change in the time-limits between first and second readings. Actually, I'm only making one suggestion right now. It refers to the General Report, which you reported in today's meeting,............................................................................................................................................................ Please, in respect of this bill, extend the period to its maximum amount, i.e. to be a total of four weeks. If this proposal is accepted, I shall inform all Members of all parliamentary groups and committees that a working group of experts and MPs shall be formed with the Legal Committee to meet before the deadline for proposals between first and second readings expires.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov from the parliamentary tribune to extend the deadline for proposals under the Election Code to the maximum amount of four weeks. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST READING OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PRESENTATION OF PRINCIPAL SECURITIES, No 601-01-8. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2016. The report of the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will introduce you to the Vice-President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u106	I would like to make a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber by the Ministry of Finance: Karina Karaivanova
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u107	There won't be so many seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u108	...and Valentina Stefanova, Head of the Department of Metodology and Complaints.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u109	We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Daniela Saulklieva. Vote 74 MPs: 70, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u110	♪ I can't believe the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 602-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2016. At its regular meeting held on 24 February, The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Feizy Bekir s Deputy Minister, and Tsvetanka Mihailova. e. Director of the Department of State Debt and Financial Markets......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The draft Law submitted by Deputy Minister Feisy Bekir mainly introduces the requirements of Directive 2013/52/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013 amending Directive 2004/109/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the harmonisation of transparency requirements as regards information on issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market, Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading, and Commission Directive 2007/14/EC laying down detailed rules for the application of certain provisions of Directive 2004/109/EC. For securities issuers, the disclosure requirements for greater transparency shall be amended. The right to choose a home Member State for issuers from a third country shall be explicitly laid down. In order to reduce the administrative burden on issuers, it is intended to make public six-month financial statements on the activity and quarterly financial notifications. At the same time, issuers shall be given the opportunity to disclose more detailed information, to continue to publish quarterly financial statements instead of financial notifications. The regime of disclosure of shareholdings for large parts of voting rights relating to shares and financial instruments with similar economic effect, increasing legal certainty, improving transparency and reducing the administrative burden on investments of a cross-border nature shall be harmonised. The Bill removes obstacles to cross-border provision of harmonised investment services with regard to persons managing alternative investment funds. Persons managing venture capital funds and social entrepreneurship funds will be subject to registration by the Financial Supervision Commission and shall be kept a public register. Persons managing long-term investment funds will be granted a financial supervision authorisation by the Financial Supervision Commission for the management of a fund. The draft also provides for amendments which further specify the auditor's obligations in the audit check in order to clarify the results of the audit checks on the annual financial statements of issuers of financial instruments admitted to trading on a regulated market that the auditor will declare. In the course of the discussion by the Financial Supervision Commission, they stressed that the Bill found an optimal balance between disclosure of information and investor protection, easing strict requirements for disclosure of information reduced the administrative burden for business. In their written opinion of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria and the Association of Directors for Relations with Investors in Bulgaria expressed reservations about the creation of a new item. 5 in art. 100n, para. 4 providing for an obligation for the auditor to validate the annual financial statements on the activities of a securities issuer company to submit a declaration with a specific text defined on the grounds that this constitutes an additional administrative burden and leads to an increase in the costs of the issuer. The Association has proposed the temporary ban provided for in art. 212a, para. 2, p. 2 imposed by the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission to be in the process of remedying the violations and called for direct access not to the Financial Supervision Commission and its authorities to tax and insurance information through their explicit inclusion as an authority under art. 74, para. 1, t. 3 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 14 votes for On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Public Offering of Securities, No 602-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. The next report is from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The report will introduce us to Mrs. Alexieva. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u112	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 602-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2016. At its meeting held on 9 March 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Offering of Securities submitted by the Council of Ministers. In the meeting of the Commission participated: Mr. Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Tsvetanka Mihaylova, Director of the Department of State Debt and Financial Markets, Mrs. Anna Andonova, State Expert in the same Directorate; Commissioner for Financial Supervision Mr. Vladimir Savov, Member of the Commission, exercising the powers of Vice-President, Head of the Management Board, Mr. Alexander Tsvetkov and Mr. Tsvetan Petrov, Head of Departments in the same Directorate; and Mrs. Veselina Mandadjieva and Mrs. Valentina Stefanova, Heads of Departments in the Directorate of Law. I. This Draft aims to transpose the requirements of: Directive 2013/50/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2013; Article 92 of Directive 2014/65/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 and the establishment of conditions for the implementation of the following Regulations: Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014, Regulation (EU) No 345/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2013, Regulation (EU) No 346/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2013 and Regulation (EU) 2015/760 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015. In relation to the amendments to the Public Offering of Securities Act (IPPCC) there are necessary amendments to the following laws: the Financial Supervision Commission Act (IFS),...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u113	Give me the result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u114	In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds unanimously proposed by 12 votes for the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 602-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u115	Thank you very much, Mrs. Alexieva. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, No 602-01-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2016. Vote 72 MPs: 68, none, abstention 4. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF LOANPROECTION FOR CREDITS FOR INCOMPLEMENTABLE COMPONENTS. Importer of the Council of Ministers, on 3 February 2016 The bill is under No 602-01-6, submitted to the National Assembly. From the Budget and Finance Committee, please come in, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill on consumer real estate loans, No 602-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2016. At a meeting held on 25 February 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Karina Karaivanova The bill was presented by Ms. Karaivanova. The bill aims to introduce in Bulgarian legislation the requirements of Directive 2014/17/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit agreements for residential immovable property for consumers. The Directive was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 28 February 2014 and the Member States should adopt measures to implement it in their national laws by 21 March 2016. The directive aims to establish an effective European regulatory framework to contribute to the development of a more transparent, efficient and competitive mortgage market in the European Union (EU) with a view to achieving a high level of protection for market participants, consumers, creditors and credit intermediaries. The requirements of the Directive also aim to eliminate differences in legislation between Member States and to facilitate cross-border lending. The measures provided for therein are intended to promote responsible lending, as well as to ensure greater market security and confidence, thereby contributing to an increase in financial stability. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Budget and Finance Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill on consumer real estate loans, No 602-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs follows. Are there no representatives of the Committee on Legal Affairs in this House? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At its meeting held on 16 March 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Bill on Real Estate Credits to Consumers, No 602-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Bekir (Deputy Minister of Finance) and Mrs. Snezanka Koleva (State Expert at the Department of State Debt and Financial Markets) in the Ministry of Finance. The bill was presented by Mr. Bekir. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 602-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2016, proposed to adopt the Law on Real Estate Credits for Users, No 602-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor to speak. You're welcome to speak, Mr. Turnovallisky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Too late and after long thought the European bureaucrat solved the problems that arise in relation to mortgage loans. In 2007, these problems were addressed by the White Book, later in 2009, measures were taken, and only 2014 did we have a directive trying to protect consumers from the greed of banks and non-financial institutions and to protect them from robbing. The draft proposed by importers introduces the European directive, makes a bad translation of the same. I would like to mention here that that directive gives each Member State the right to take stricter legal rules in favour of credit consumers. The submitted bill retains much of the good provisions in the Consumer Credits Act, but, unfortunately, some rather serious proceeds are also being made to the detriment, of course, of consumers. The first thing I would like to stress is that the draft law takes a step back from the legal decisions adopted to declare credit agreements insignificant when it does not include binding elements. Although the Bill accepts what was adopted, in the Law on Consumer Credits adopted in 2014, a requirement the methodology by which the variable interest rate is calculated for the reference interest, the project does not retain the penalty, for the nullity of the contract, in the absence of a clause in it with a certain algorithm. On the contrary, an administrative penalty of 20 to 40,000 is offered here. lv. And with that, I think that the interest of the borrowers is wronged, instead of declaring these contracts insignificant, and the banks will be sanctioned, and guess how much this will happen. The same penalty shall also be provided for cases where no general conditions have been presented. In the current Act, these violations provide for and enable these contracts to be declared null and void. We are now again being proposed to adopt a bill that provides for administrative sanctions of 10,000. up to 20,000. lv. In this Bill there are also many texts that have been copied by the directive, but they are purely non-working texts. This is, in my opinion, the proposal for the conciliatory commission. Of course, there are much more requirements in art. 13 for the information to be provided, even factors involving assumptions for future events, as recorded. My fellow Members, I think there is a need for this bill between the two readings to be made changes and we will make changes, at this stage we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? If there are any more speeches at the next meeting. Communications of parliamentary control on 18 March 2016 on Friday 11.00 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer five questions from the People's Iskren Veselinov; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Yavor Haytov; Villas Lilkov; and Svetoslav Belemezov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva will answer two questions from the MPs Borislav Iglev; and Slavi Binev. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer one question from the MP Slavi Binev. 4. Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin will answer one question from MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov. 5. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer eight questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova; Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev. Two questions; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Chavdar Peychev, Dimitar Delchev, Manol Genov, and Dora Yankova, and two questions from the MPs Rumen Yonchev and Yavor Haytov; and Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov. 6. The Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski will answer two questions from the MPs Slavi Binev; and Stefan Kenov and Chavdar Peychev. 7. The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer five questions from the MPs Vassil Antonov, Dimitar Tanev, Yavor Haytov, Slavi Binev, and Georgi Kadiev; and one question from the MP Slavi Binev. 8. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer five questions from the MPs Slavi Binev, Kiril Kalfin and Evgeni Stoev, Vasil Antonov, Georgi Turnovalyski, and Boris Yachev and one question from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. 9. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer three questions from the MPs Slavi Binev, Georgi Kadiev and Valeri Simeonov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Methodie Andreev and two questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Cornelia Nino, and Slavi Binev. 10. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nanchev will answer five questions from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Tasco Ermenkov, Atanas Zafirov, Petar Slavov, and Ivan Valkov and one question from the National Representative Tasko Ermenkov. 11. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer 9 questions from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Boyka Marinska, Dimitar Shishkov, Kiril Dobrev and Radoslav Stoychev, Filip Popov, Yanaki Stoilov, two questions; and Vasil Antonov and one question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev. 12. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will answer three questions from the MPs Slavi Binev two questions, and Georgi Kuchukov. 13. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer seven questions from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev, Atanas Stoyanov, Willi Lilkov, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Boris Yachev, Georgi Andonov, and Svetoslav Belemezov and Ivan Stankov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova, to a question with written answer from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to two questions by the MPs Hasan Ademov, and Emil Raynov, and three questions with written answer from the MPs Petar Slavov, Teodora Georgieva, and Angel Naydenov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov of a question with a written answer from the National Representative Metodi Andreev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. - two questions from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov. In the absence of the country, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, the Minister of Culture Vecdi Rashidov, and the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to a prior commitment with international participation, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to the running out of time for today's plenary session, I am closing the same thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-17.u122	Tomorrow we continue at 9:00 with the address of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Rosen Plevneliev to the National Assembly on the occasion of the completed political consultations. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
